DRN-2418316
The complaint
 Mr J is a sole trader. He complains that BPW Insurance Services Ltd (BPW) mis-sold him 
a business protection insurance policy.  
What happened
 Mr J took out a business protection policy through his broker, BPW. He approached the 
broker in May 2019 for a quote, and they put together a market presentation to source a 
suitable policy. BPW sent the presentation to Thames Underwriting (the placing broker), who 
subsequently sourced a policy with MGAM Ltd  who were acting as agents of a non-UK 
insurer, Builders Direct SA.
The market presentation set out Mr Js insurance requirements, including the fact that his 
machines and tools are locked securely at [Mr J]s premises which is fenced.  Thames 
Underwriting provided the policy to BPW, who then sold it to Mr J on an advised basis in 
June 2019. 
Mr J made a claim on the policy in February 2020 after returning home to find that around 
£90,000 worth of plant and machinery (the equipment) had been stolen from his property. 
However, the insurer declined the claim on the basis that cover was only available when the 
equipment was temporarily stored away from the contract site on which it was to be used. 
The insurer said that Mr J was regularly storing the equipment at home, so the claim wasnt 
covered.
Mr J complained that BPW had mis-sold the policy because he had specifically stated in his 
insurance proposal that the equipment was to be stored at his home, and so he thought that 
it would be covered. 
BPW said they were not at fault, however, as they had presented his requirements to 
Thames Underwriting, which was the placing broker. They also said that Builders Direct had 
incorrectly declined the claim as the stolen equipment was in fact stored temporarily at 
Mr Js premises for a limited period of time while awaiting transit to be used on a contract 
site  meaning that the primary location for the equipment was the contract site rather than 
Mr Js home. BPW therefore considered that the policy was in fact suitable for the needs 
initially presented by Mr J.
Builders Direct said the policy did not provide cover for plant and machinery that was 
regularly stored at Mr Js home but conceded that cover should have been sold to include 
this based on the requirements they were presented with. They offered £45,000 
(approximately half the value of the claim) as a gesture of goodwill, but Mr J declined this as 
he had also incurred significant costs in having to hire replacement equipment after the 
insurer refused to indemnify the claim. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He didnt think the claim had been declined unfairly 
as the equipment was not permanently consigned to the different contracts undertaken by 
Mr J, but was permanently stored at his home when not in use, and temporarily taken from 
its place of storage when it was needed. So the investigator thought that BPW ought to have 
identified that the policy did not meet his requirements in this regard  and agreed it had 
been mis-sold, which had ultimately resulted in the claim not being covered.
However, the investigator considered that liability for Mr Js loss also rested with the insurer 
who  through the acts of their agents acting under delegated authority  were also 
responsible for negligently selling cover that did not meet Mr Js specified requirements. He 
therefore recommended that liability for the negligence be shared by both BPW and Builders 
Direct, with each party covering 50% of the value of the declined claim, as well as Mr Js 
consequential losses. The investigator said that BPW should also pay £500 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused. BPW disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. 
BPW submit that they carefully assessed all of the documentation issued by Thames 
Underwriting and concluded the policy was suitable for the requirements set out by Mr J. 
Theyve said the policy professes to provide cover for his businesss claim; and that it has 
been wrongfully declined by the insurer. 
The policy terms and conditions state:
In the event that Property Insured comprising:

3) Plant, Temporary Buildings and Other Property
be accidentally damagedthen we will cover you for such damage and will, at our 
option, replace or repair or pay for any item or any part thereof that has been 
damagedprovided that the said damage occurs during the period of insurance and 
while the property insured is

c) temporarily stored away from the contract site, including storage at your 
premises [my emphasis added].
Damage is defined by the policy as physical loss or destruction or damage, and Plant is 
defined as constructional plant, tools and equipment. Its not in dispute that the theft of the 
equipment constitutes damage due to its physical loss following the theft. But Builders 
Direct declined the claim as it became apparent that the equipment was normally stored at 
Mr Js home on a permanent (rather than temporary) basis. 
BPW submit that the word temporary is not defined by the policy and that the insurer is 
using their own unfair interpretation to decline the claim. They say the lack of definition has 
created ambiguity that should be construed in Mr Js favour. But the fact that the word is 
undefined does not, in my judgment, create ambiguity here. It isnt practical for every single 
word in a policy document to have its own corresponding definition. So, for the sake of 
pragmatism, widely understood words such as temporary that are not defined are to be 
construed according to their natural and commonly understood meaning. A common 
dictionary definition defines the word as meaning lasting for only a limited period of time; not 
permanent. So this is the interpretation I have adopted when considering if the claim ought to have been covered or not; and I understand this is how BPW and the insurer have also 
construed the term  such that there is no ambiguity regarding how it has been interpreted.
BPW say that in assessing Mr Js needs, they considered the policy provided by Thames 
Underwriting to be suitable because the equipment would be temporarily stored at Mr Js 
home and frequently removed for specific contracts. However, Mr J has said that when the 
equipment is not required for a particular job, it is returned to his home to be stored, (even 
though work may still be ongoing on the job), and that this could be for any indeterminate 
length of time until the equipment is needed again. 
I appreciate the policy states that it covers plant and machinery temporarily stored away 
from the contract site, including storage at your premises. But in the circumstances 
described by Mr J  which the market presentation also made clear when specifying that the 
equipment was locked securely at [Mr Js] premises  it cannot reasonably be said that the 
equipment was stored temporarily at his home. A place of temporary storage would imply 
that it was being kept somewhere for a limited time other than its fixed and usual place of 
storage. In these circumstances, not all of the equipment would always be in use for any 
given job at any given time. And when it was not in use, it was normally stored at Mr Js 
home. This strikes me as perfectly normal practice for a sole trader such as Mr J  and 
would, I think, be commonly understood as such by most reasonable people (let alone 
insurance professionals specialising in the building trade).
So I think its fair to say that Mr Js home was the regular or fixed place of storage for the 
equipment, which would therefore imply that it was taken temporarily to contract sites as and 
when it was required, whereupon it would subsequently be returned to its place of storage 
when not in use. On that basis, I do not consider the claim has been declined unfairly by the 
insurer on the strict policy terms and conditions. 
BPW submit that it is incorrect to say that the equipment was permanently stored at Mr Js 
premises as it was not left there indefinitely. But while I appreciate the equipment itself may 
not have physically remained in that location on a permanent basis, the policy term is 
concerned with the nature of the place of storage and whether it is temporary or permanent. 
Mr Js residence as the fixed place of storage for the equipment was indeed permanent, as it 
was the location in which it was always kept while not in use. It could therefore only 
reasonably be described as temporary if it was kept there for a limited period before being 
taken to another regular and permanent place of storage, which it was not.
So, taking into account the normal definition of temporary as described above  and 
storage as a place where something is usually kept  I think it was reasonably foreseeable 
that such a claim would not be covered if the equipment was stolen from a fixed and 
permanent place of storage away from any given contract site. Mr J had clearly stated to the 
broker that his machinery was to be stored at his premises (which they in turn set out in the 
market presentation). And the policy was sold by BPW on an advised basis, which meant 
they had a regulatory duty to ensure it was suitable for the demands and needs of the 
insured (see, for example, the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, general principles and 
insurance: conduct of business sourcebook). However, having considered the policy 
wording, its clear that its scope of cover extends only to covering the equipment on a 
contract site, being transported to and from a contract site, or when it is temporarily stored 
away from a contract site. So I do not think a broker exercising the care and skill that most 
reasonable, prudent brokers would expect, would have concluded that this policy was 
suitable for Mr J when his permanent place of storage for the equipment was at home.
Given that Mr J regularly stored the equipment at his residence  and given that it was of 
significant value and crucial to his business  I consider the relevant policy term set out 
above to be a significant limitation that ought to have been very clearly drawn to his attention at the point of sale (assuming BPW were happy to recommend a policy that seemed 
inherently unsuitable because of it). But I have not seen any evidence that this was 
highlighted or brought to Mr Js attention by BPW. Had they done so, I do not think he would 
have agreed to take out this particular policy with Builders Direct and instead wouldve likely 
continued his search for a policy that did cover equipment that was regularly stored at his 
home, and which would have covered this sort of loss. 
So, but for BPWs failure to recommend a suitable policy and/or highlight the significant 
restriction on cover, Mr Js losses would have likely been indemnified by the insurer, 
meaning he wouldve also avoided having to incur further significant costs in hiring 
replacement plant and machinery for the business (as well as paying interest on a loan in 
order to cover those costs). It is well-established that you take your victim as you find him  
and the courts have confirmed that credit costs necessary to mitigate loss are now 
recoverable against the tortfeasor (negligent wrongdoer): Lagden v OConnor [2003] UKHL 
64. 
On that basis, and in order to put Mr J in the position he would have been in but for BPWs 
negligence, the broker would ordinarily have to cover the full amount of the claim as well as 
the reasonably foreseeable, proximate losses that stemmed from the negligence  i.e. the 
hire costs and loan interest. But I cant ignore the fact that the insurer is also culpable in this 
matter.
Thames Underwriting were the placing broker in this instance that recommended the policy 
to BPW as their client, which was then sold to Mr J. When they sold the policy, Thames 
Underwriting were acting as a sub-agent of MGAM Ltd, who were in turn agents of Builders 
Direct and acting under delegated authority. Builders Direct are therefore ultimately 
responsible for the acts or omissions of Thames Underwriting as the placing broker when 
they recommended the policy to BPW, and this position is not in dispute with the insurer.
Builders Direct have conceded that Thames Underwriting failed to provide BPW with correct 
coverage in light of Mr Js circumstances and what had been requested in the market 
presentation. So the insurers negligence/breach of duty to provide a suitable policy has also 
contributed to his loss, making them joint tortfeasors with BPW. And while I appreciate the 
mistakes of BPW and Builders Direct were independent of each other, they have 
nevertheless given rise to the same loss  i.e. an unsuitable policy that would never have 
covered the theft of Mr Js equipment from its usual place of storage. But I do not think the 
negligence of either party is greater or outweighs that of the other in these circumstances. 
So, on that basis, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for liability to be apportioned 
equally between BPW and Builders Direct. The latter is not a party to this particular 
complaint, so I have no power to make an award against the insurer in this decision. They 
are not joint respondents (though our jurisdiction rules do allow complaints and awards 
against multiple parties). 
But this jurisdiction nicety doesnt matter, as Builders Direct have already agreed to pay 
£45,000 (representing half the value of Mr Js claim) as well half the costs incurred to hire 
replacement machinery and half of the interest paid on the loan taken out to cover those 
costs. BPW say that the insurers original offer to pay half of the claim was designed to put 
pressure on Mr J to accept a settlement less than full indemnity in an attempt to lower their 
liability for a claim they should rightfully pay. But as Ive set out above, I do not think this was 
a claim that was covered under the strict terms and conditions of the insurance contract, so I 
do not think the offer was made in an attempt to avoid paying it. Rather, it appears the offer 
has been in acknowledgement of the fact that an unsuitable policy was provided that would 
never have covered such a claim in the first place. 
So, for the reasons set out above, I will therefore be directing BPW to cover the remaining half of the claim and consequential losses in order to put things right for Mr J. The 
investigator also recommended that BPW pay £500 compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused to Mr J, which I also consider to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct BPW Insurance Services 
Ltd to do the following within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr Js acceptance of my 
decision (and/or receipt of any reasonable proof stipulated below):
1. Cover the remaining 50% of the value of Mr Js claim;
2. Reimburse 50% of the costs incurred by Mr J to hire replacement plant and 
machinery, upon submission of reasonable proof of such costs;
3. Reimburse 50% of the interest paid by Mr J on the loan that was taken out to cover 
the cost of hiring replacement plant and machinery, upon submission of reasonable 
proof of the amount of interest paid;
4. Pay 8% simple interest per year on the amounts in (1) and (2) from, respectively, the 
date of loss and date the costs were incurred until the date of settlement; and
5. Pay £500 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman