DRN-3624162
The complaint
Ms L complains Domestic & General Insurance Plc has unfairly settled a claim shes made 
on her household warranty policy covering her fridge freezer.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been documented 
previously by our Investigator so Ill provide a summary here.
Ms L has a household warranty policy, underwritten by D&G, which provides cover 
for a number of risks related to her fridge freezer.
The fridge freezer (FF1) experienced problems and was written off in October 2020. 
Ms L wasnt happy with the replacement D&G originally offered and suggested an 
alternative - FF2 - with a £140 upgrade fee and a charge of around £10 for its 
installation. D&G agreed with this and Ms L paid the fees.
There were problems with FF2 as two damaged replacements were delivered. In the 
end, D&G arranged for FF2 to be collected and returned due to the damage.
Ms L got back in contact with D&G and it offered a cash settlement of £362 based on 
the current price of a replacement model  FF3 - similar to FF1 together with a refund 
of the £140 upgrade fee and the £10 installation fee. But Ms L thought the cash 
settlement should be based on the higher replacement cost of FF2 as she had paid 
for the upgrade.
D&G said it didnt hear back from Ms L so eventually it cash settled the claim to 
Ms Ls bank account for £455, which was an increase on what it had previously 
offered, based on the cost at that time of a replacement model it said was similar in 
specification to FF1. It also refunded the two fees and credited Ms L with a small 
amount of interest for the time she was without the funds.
Ms L wasnt happy with the way D&G handled her claim including not originally 
offering a cash settlement, saying it had tried to offer her a downgraded replacement 
and settlement figure based on this.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying he was satisfied FF3 was of a 
similar specification to FF1 and so the cash settlement D&G had made was fair. And 
he was satisfied D&G had refunded the fees to Ms L too.
Ms L remained unhappy and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has provided a significant amount of comments and copies of correspondence to D&G 
senior management in support of her case. My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to 
say how complaints should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means I will 
focus my decision on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and only comment on 
those things relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm I have seen and 
considered everything even where I dont reference it specifically.
I have started by looking at the terms of the policy as these detail D&Gs obligations 
under the cover. There are two terms relating to replacements I consider relevant to 
this complaint. 
In some situations we will arrange to replace your product instead of repairing it (for 
example where we cannot repair it or we decide that it is uneconomical for us to 
repair your product). In these circumstances, we will arrange to replace your product 
with one of a same or similar make and technical specification; and 
If we cannot reasonably arrange a replacement, we will give you vouchers instead. 
The vouchers will be for the full retail price (from a retailer chosen by us) of a 
replacement product of the same or similar make and technical specification
So, Im satisfied D&G acted fairly when it originally declined a cash settlement as its 
not required under the policy terms to do so. 
After Ms L declined the initial settlement offer and D&G didnt hear back from her, it 
eventually refunded the £140 shed paid for the upgrade, the £10 fee and paid a cash 
settlement of £455 based on FF3 which it said was of similar specification. 
Ive looked carefully at the details of FF1 and FF3, and while not exactly the same, 
Im satisfied they are broadly similar in specification and thats whats required under 
the policy terms. It follows Im satisfied it was fair for D&G to base its settlement 
figure on FF3.
I know Ms L thinks D&G should have cash settled to the higher value of the upgraded 
FF2 at £629.99. But D&G refunded the fees related to the upgrade and paid a cash 
settlement based on a model similar to FF1 plus a gesture of goodwill of £12 totalling 
approximately £617. In doing so, Im satisfied its settled the claim fairly and in line 
with the policy terms.
Ms L says she was charged a £19.99 delivery fee but Ive seen no evidence of this. 
Shes also questioned why two cheques were issued and doesnt agree with the way 
the amounts paid to her were split across the cheques, implying D&G has done this 
dishonestly. But Ive seen nothing which persuades me this belief has merit. Im 
satisfied the total of the two cheques is the amount D&G said it would refund.
For the reasons Ive explained, I wont be asking D&G to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman