DRN-2397269
The complaint
The estate of Mr W complains that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited didnt suspend further 
interest following the passing of the deceased. It says the term lifetime mortgage is 
inaccurate and misleading. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W applied for a lifetime mortgage with Aviva in 2003. Mrs W sadly passed away 
in 2018. The mortgage passed to Mr Ws sole ownership. Mr W sadly passed away in 
January 2020.
The estate of Mr W says it put the property on the market in March 2020  around the time 
the grant of probate was issued, but the sales process was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. The property sold in August 2020.
During this time, it asked Aviva to suspend any further interest charges in light of the 
circumstances. In any event, it says that the term lifetime mortgage is misleading and as 
such its immorally wrong for it to charge interest following the death of the last remaining 
mortgage holder. Aviva said it couldnt change the terms of the mortgage. 
The estate of Mr W raised a formal complaint with Aviva in March 2020. Aviva replied that 
month. The complaint wasnt upheld.
Unhappy with Avivas response, the estate of Mr W brought the complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly.
The estate of Mr W didnt agree with the investigators option and asked for the matter to be 
considered by an ombudsman. Because an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do empathise with the executors position. They lost both parents in the space of a few 
years and were faced with dealing with the estate during uncertain times, whilst experiencing 
their own unfortunate personal circumstances.
The rules set by the financial regulator determine who is eligible to bring a complaint to our 
service. The rules say the late Mr Ws estate is an eligible complainant. 
The executors represent the estate but that doesnt make them customers of the business, 
or eligible complainants under our rules. So, Im unable to consider any trouble and upset or 
distress they feel theyve been put to, as theyre not eligible complainants. Weve no power 
to order that the executors be compensated personally for that. 
We can award compensation to Mr Ws estate if we believe it has suffered financial loss, but 
we cant award compensation to the estate for upset, as its not possible for an estate to 
suffer upset.
What I have to consider is whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
And if not, consider whether the estate has suffered a loss as a result. 
The terms of a lifetime mortgage mean consumers dont make any monthly repayments, but 
instead interest accrues on to the loan until the property is sold.
I can understand why, in the executors opinion, they feel the term lifetime mortgage is 
misleading. But, the terms of the mortgage provided to Mr and Mrs W at the time of sale 
explained how the product works and allow Aviva to charge interest until the property is sold, 
so it was entitled to do so.
Whilst our service investigates complaints against financial businesses, we are not the 
regulator and, as such, were unable to implement wider industry changes or influence 
businesses overall processes and procedures (such as how they refer to products). That is 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The estate of Mr W feels that at the very least more should have been done to provide 
support during the Covid-19 pandemic. It doesnt feel interest should have accrued during 
the lockdown period, as the sales process was impacted due to circumstances outside of its 
control.
In response to the recent Covid-19 pandemic, on 20 March 2020 the FCA released specific 
guidance for lenders with regards to mortgages. This guidance didnt extend to equity 
release mortgages. In situations where the guidance did apply, payment deferrals were 
offered to borrowers but interest on mortgages would still accrue. 
So, Aviva refusing to suspend interest charged during this period, doesnt go against the 
guidance released by the FCA. In view of that and as interest has been applied in line with 
the agreement that Mr and Mrs W accepted, I dont consider that Aviva has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman