DRN-4332730
The complaint
Mr N complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited made an error when he 
took out a motor insurance policy with it. He says the insurance didnt start from the date 
hed requested.
What happened
In May 2023, Mr N applied for a temporary motor insurance policy through First Central. He 
completed the application online.
Mr N says he selected for cover to start immediately, but after hed completed his 
application, he found that the policy was due to start four days later. Mr N phoned First 
Central and asked it to change the date, but it said it was unable to do so.
Mr N complained to First Central, who initially said no error had been made. However, it later 
decided to uphold his complaint. It said it would reimburse him for temporary cover hed had 
to take out elsewhere as a result of the policy not starting when hed wanted it to. It also paid 
him £75 compensation.
Mr N remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaint. He said he wanted 
First Central to reimburse him £130 hed had to pay for temporary insurance as a result of 
the issue. He also didnt think £75 was enough to compensate him for the stress and anxiety 
hed experienced.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He was satisfied that no error had been caused by First Central. So, he didnt think it needed 
to do anything further. 
Mr N disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said First Central initially told him that 
hed personally made an error by selecting the wrong date for the insurance to start. It had 
then come back after performing some test to see what hed actually clicked on the website 
and decided he had input the date correctly and upheld his complaint. He said it was clear 
that First Centrals system had caused the issues as he knew hed selected for cover to start 
immediately, and some of the dates First Central had mentioned were impossible as it would 
have meant him being insured from a past date.
As Mr N disagrees with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr N says hes certain that he selected for the insurance to start immediately when he 
applied for the policy online, and its clear First Centrals system caused the issue. 
First Central says it didnt make any errors. It says it obtained a quote history report which 
caused some confusion to one of its complaint handlers. As it showed both dates, the 
complaint handler had assumed it was First Centrals error. However, after a full review and 
discussion with its product development team, First Central says the information showed the 
temporary cover was due to be effective from four days after Mr N applied for it.
The complaint handler who upheld Mr Ns complaint said shed reviewed the quote history 
report and went on to say: Although there are multiple start dates listed, one of them reads 
as 24th May 2023. Therefore, I will be looking to uphold your complaint and issue you 
compensation for our system errors that caused the temporary cover to start four days later.
First Central has sent us a screenshot of the information it reviewed. It shows a rate 
effective date of 28 May 2023 and effective from as being 24 May 2023. First Central says 
the effective from is when the quote was effective from not the actual cover.
So, it looks like the complaint handler decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint because of 
confusion about the two dates that were showing.
Mr N has commented that some of the dates First Central mentioned to him were impossible 
as it would mean him being insured from a past date.
I can see that in one of the emails First Central sent Mr N it said:
I understand you intended for the temporary cover to start immediately however from 
reviewing your policy, I can see effective date was changed from 30th April 2023 to 28th May 
2023 not 24th May 2023, when the cover was purchased.
Mr N has sent us a screenshot from First Central which shows effective date changed from 
30/4/23 to 28/5/23 and created date changed from 28/4/2023 to 24/5/2023 
However, other screenshots suggest that the April dates are to do with a change of vehicle 
quote that was previously run on Mr Ns annual policy with First Central. I appreciate Mr N 
didnt explain what the April dates meant in its email, but I dont think they indicate an error 
was made. 
I understand that Mr N strongly believes he selected for the policy to start immediately, but I 
can only go by what Ive seen. And the information suggests that the start date selected was 
four days later.
Even if there was evidence to persuade me that First Central had made an error, I wouldnt 
be asking it to do anything more than it already has. First Central has offered to cover the 
cost of the temporary insurance Mr N had to take elsewhere on receipt of evidence from him. 
It says its still prepared to honour this, even though its concluded that an error wasnt made. 
Its also paid him £75 compensation, which I think is enough to compensate him for any 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr N, but I dont require First Central to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman