DRN-3126788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with how a secured loan has been administered by Target 
Servicing Limited and the fact that it started legal action to repossess their home. This 
resulted in Mr and Mrs N obtaining funds to repay the loan and they are concerned that 
Target had no right to take their money. Following it doing so, it didnt remove the charge on 
the property as it should have. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N took out a secured second charge loan with lender W in 2008. The loan was 
for £15,000 on a repayment basis over a term of 10 years. 
Mr and Mrs N have told us that they had a dispute with W and stopped making their monthly 
payments to the loan while waiting for the issue to be investigated. No payments were made 
to the account between June 2012 and when the loan was transferred to a new lender (C) in 
June 2018. C wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to administer mortgages, 
and so it had to appoint a business that was. Target was appointed to fulfil this function. 
Mr and Mrs N were informed about the transfer in May 2018 and were provided with 
information to be used to contact C (Target) from 11 June 2018.
In February 2019 Target started actively pursuing Mr and Mrs N for repayment of the loan, 
as it had expired and they hadnt been in touch about it. Letters were sent at regular intervals 
asking Mr and Mrs N to contact Target, but no response was received. In July 2019 Target 
commissioned field agents to go to Mr and Mrs Ns home and speak to them about the loan, 
as they hadnt responded to the letters it had sent. The agents attempted contact on three 
occasions in July and August 2019, but were unable to speak to Mr or Mrs N.
On 29 August 2019 Target wrote to Mr and Mrs N about the arrears on the loan. They were 
warned that if they didnt do anything, they would shortly receive a final notice before legal 
action letter. It asked them to contact it immediately to see if it could help them and avoid 
legal action being taken.
Mr N called Target on 3 September 2019. He said that he wasnt aware of having a loan with 
C or W. As such, Target sent Mr and Mrs N a copy of the loan agreement and they were 
asked to call Target back. They didnt.
On 23 September 2019 Target wrote to Mr and Mrs N giving them final notice of impending 
legal action. It informed them that following the term of the loan expiring, the full balance of 
the account was due. It said that Mr and Mrs N needed to contact it within 15 working days 
to make an arrangement to pay the money owed, or proceedings to repossess the property 
would be started.  
In December 2019 Target informed Mr and Mrs N that it was taking legal action to repossess 
their property in light of the arrears. A court date was set for January 2020. Mr and Mrs N 
contacted Target to discuss the loan. They were told that in order to stop the legal 
proceedings they would need to complete an income and expenditure exercise, and provide 
supporting documentation. Mr and Mrs N said they were unable to do so at that time, and 
they were meant to call back to do so. They didnt. Target contacted them and Mr N 
expressed doubt about whether an arrangement would be possible and that he and Mrs N 
would look further into their options. Theyve told us they borrowed funds from a family 
member to settle the account. Target accepted less than the outstanding balance in 
settlement.
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs N raised a complaint about the charge not having been released, 
a subject data access request (DSAR) theyd made, and some poor service theyd received. 
In September 2020 Mr and Mrs N contacted this service and asked us to consider their 
complaint. This raised further complaint points about how Target had administered the loan 
and the decision to take legal action, which had prompted Mr and Mrs N to repay the loan. 
Target responded to the complaint made in March 2020, on behalf of C, on 12 October 
2020. It explained that there was a problem with the property title, due to there being two 
postcodes on the title documents for the property. This had meant that even though it had 
asked its solicitors to remove the charge on 16 January 2020, it hadnt been possible to do 
immediately. However, the charge had now been removed.  In relation to the DSAR, it 
explained that it hadnt processed the request because there had been a mismatch of 
signatures. However, that issue had been resolved and the DSAR had been actioned in 
March 2020. As it hadnt been received, it was being reissued. In relation to Mr N not having 
been called back on an occasion in September 2020 when hed called about the charge 
removal. Target apologised for the poor service Mr and Mrs N had received in relation to the 
removal of the charge and offered Mr N £170 compensation. 
We informed Target about the new complaint points and it informed us that it would look into 
the issues and issue a further final response letter. The final response letter was sent in 
January 2021, and it was explained that while Mr and Mrs N had said that they had a dispute 
with W, resulting in them not making the loan payments, it was unable to find any record of 
such a dispute or a complaint. The records it had showed that the loan was in arrears from 
2013 until the end of the term in 2018. In relation to Mr and Mrs Ns statement that they had 
contacted Target about a payment arrangement following it issuing a final notice letter in 
September 2019, it said that it had no contact from them until the beginning of December 
2019. At that point Target was willing to look at an arrangement, but Mr and Mrs N didnt 
provide the information needed for an arrangement to be discussed. As such, Target didnt 
think it had done anything wrong.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs N told the investigator that they strongly disagreed with his findings. 
They accused him of being overly sympathetic to Target, without looking at any of the 
documents and information they had that contradicted what Target was saying. 
Mr and Mrs N said that prior to the notification about the court date, they had received 
nothing from Target about payments made by themselves or the account being sold to C. 
They said that the copy of the credit agreement theyd been given was barely legible and the 
address was incorrect, so they didnt think it was legitimate. In addition, Mr and Mrs N said 
they received a total of two letters from Target, both of which used an incorrect postcode. 
Mr and Mrs N also reiterated that Target hadnt agreed to any kind of repayment options 
even in the run up to the court date. They said that target had been lying all the way through 
and using bully boy tactics to force them into paying. They said that their credit files didnt 
include an account with either C or Target, and surely if theyd had a loan it would have been 
on their credit files. They asked that the investigator reconsider his conclusions or pass the 
complaint to an ombudsman.Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ns comments, but he didnt change his 
conclusions. As such, the complaint has been passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly reiterate our investigators comments regarding the DSAR Mr and Mrs N are 
unhappy about. Their concerns about this issue would more appropriately be directed to the 
Information Commissioners Office. As such, I wont be commenting on them in this decision.
Mr and Mrs N have commented that the loan subject to this complaint wasnt reported on 
their credit file, indicating that this brings into doubt that the loan actually existed. While this 
doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint, for completeness, I will comment on the matter. 
Lenders are not required to report to credit reference agencies and not all do. The fact that C 
doesnt report doesnt bring into question the existence of any loans or mortgages it owns.
I have examined the documentation that Target has provided. I am satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs N had a loan with W which was then transferred to C in 2018 and that they were 
informed of this transfer when it happened and were given contact details to use in the event 
they wanted to speak to C.  I note that Mr and Mrs N have said that they only ever received 
two letters from Target about the loan and both of those letters, along with the copy credit 
agreement, used an incorrect postcode for the property. I would firstly comment that all of 
the correspondence I have seen from Target addressed to Mr and Mrs N, has used the 
same postcode they detailed in the complaint form they completed for this service. So unless 
Mr and Mrs N gave us an incorrect postcode, which seems unlikely, it would seem that 
Target was corresponding with them using the correct address. The only document I have 
seen containing an incorrect address is the court form, and that address was likely to have 
been taken from the property title, rather than Targets administrative systems. As such, it is 
likely that all of Targets correspondence was correctly delivered. 
In relation to the actions Target took from early 2019 regarding pursuing the debt, I dont 
think it acted inappropriately. It was administering a loan that was beyond the end of the 
term and to which the borrowers hadnt made a payment for over seven years. In addition, 
no contact had been received from the borrowers for in excess of three years. It was entirely 
reasonable for Target to start writing to Mr and Mrs N in order to be able to speak to them 
about repaying the money they owed. When they didnt respond to the requests, it moved to 
taking legal action to recover the money owed. While this would have been distressing for 
Mr and Mrs N, I dont think Target was wrong to take that action.
Mr and Mrs N have said that Target didnt act reasonably following issuing the final notice of 
impending legal action. It is true that Target didnt agree a payment arrangement when 
Mr and Mrs N contacted it. However, this was not because it was not willing to do so, but 
rather it needed more information from them to be able to assess what options were 
available. This request wasnt unreasonable as a lender is required to assess the 
circumstances of a customer to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and will actually 
help. As such, I cant find that Target was unco-operative or acted inappropriately. Nor can I 
conclude that it bullied Mr and Mrs N into paying a lump sum to close the account. 
As for the matter of the charge not having been removed, I can only agree that over nine 
months was far longer than that process should have taken. That said, there were 
complications with removing the charge due to the property title containing two different 
identifying postcodes. So while there were delays, I am not persuaded the entire period 
would be considered delay caused by Target or its legal representatives. However, Target has offered £170 compensation for this poor service and an incident of Mr and Mrs N not 
being called back when they requested it. I think this is sufficient compensation, along with 
the apology provided, given the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. If Mr and Mrs N wish to accept the 
compensation payment Target offered, they should contact it directly.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman