DRN-3497901
The complaint
Miss H has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) have refused to 
remove the default records relating to debts theyve sold to another company from her credit 
file  which she thinks makes her credit file inaccurate. 
What happened
In mid-2019, Miss H defaulted on a loan shed received from Nat West.  And she was 
defaulted on the overdraft she had with them on her current account.  Entries in relation to 
both were made on Miss Hs credit file.
In April 2021, Nat West sold Miss Hs debts to another business Ill call D.  Nat West updated 
Miss Hs credit file to show her debts with them were settled.  D made their own entries on 
the report recording the default on both the loan and the overdraft.
Miss H had hoped to buy a property in 2022.  She took advice and was told that her credit 
history meant she was unlikely to be approved for a mortgage, because she had four 
defaults on her file.
Miss H looked at her credit file and noted that both Nat West and D had recorded details of 
the loan and overdraft defaults.  So she made a complaint to Nat West and asked them to 
remove the information about theyd entered, as theyd sold the debt to D.  She also 
complained about the time it had taken them to deal with her concerns.
Nat West investigated and concluded they didnt need to amend Miss Hs credit file.  They 
said it was right that both they and D recorded the defaults.  But that, when theyd sold the 
debts to D, theyd update the credit file to show the debt to them was satisfied.  It was Ds 
responsibility to update the record after that.
But Nat West did say that, although theyd responded to the complaint within the time limits 
set out in the FCA Handbook, theyd not met their own complaints handling service levels.  
They offered Miss H £50 for this.
Miss H wasnt satisfied with Nat Wests response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Nat West didnt need to do anything more to 
resolve the complaint as he said theyd recorded the defaults as hed expect on Miss Hs 
credit file.
Miss H didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand why Miss H is concerned.  Shed made plans which she cant pursue due to 
entries on her credit file.  But I can only say that Nat West should make changes to the file if 
Im satisfied the information it contains is wrong.  And I dont think thats the case.
Ive studied the credit report Miss H has sent us.  Shes unhappy because she says it 
contains four defaults in relation to the overdraft and loan.  
Ive looked at the entries Miss H disputes.  The entries made by D are recorded as defaults.  
But  as our investigator said  the entries made by Nat West are marked settled, rather 
than default.  And the report shows the debts were marked as satisfied in April 2021  
when the debts were sold to D. 
Businesses have a duty to make sure the entries they make on someones credit file are 
accurate so other businesses can rely on them when making their own lending decisions.  
Having looked at the entries here, they show Miss H did owe Nat West money, but those 
debts are settled.  Im satisfied thats an accurate record of Miss Hs financial situation, 
because the defaulted accounts are now owned by D.  So I dont think Nat West needs to 
take any action to amend the records for which they were responsible.
In respect of Miss Hs complaint that Nat West took too long to respond to her, I agree with 
our investigator that we cant say Nat West did anything wrong here, because they 
responded to her within the timeframe set out in our rules.  Id expect them to honour their 
offer of £50 compensation should Miss H now want to accept it.  But I dont think they need 
to do any more to resolve her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman