DRN-3907447
The complaint
Two companies, which Ill refer to as L and D, complain about the actions of The Royal Bank 
of Scotland Plc (RBS) regarding the management of their business borrowing.
What happened
L and D are property businesses which are closely connected by common ownership and 
family links. To make this decision easier to read, I shall also refer to L and D as the 
companies. They complained jointly to RBS about a number of matters concerning their 
business borrowing. Their complaint was about RBSs actions from 2010 onwards when the 
companies accounts were subject to the banks Specialised Relationship Management 
(SRM) arrangements and later brought under the management its Global Restructuring 
Group (GRG). 
The bank investigated the complaint as part of its GRG review scheme and made an offer of 
compensation to settle two elements of the complaint. First, the bank agreed it had 
unreasonably relied on internal valuations of property in May 2011 and July 2012, though it 
concluded that the companies had as a result suffered no direct losses. Secondly, the bank 
agreed it had unreasonably charged a risk fee of £61,250 in August 2011, though it also 
concluded that it would have charged an arrangement fee of £59,063 instead. Nevertheless, 
RBS offered to refund the risk fee in full, with interest. The bank didnt uphold any other part 
of the companies complaint.
The companies accepted the offer in September 2019 and RBS paid the redress. However, 
the settlement also left the companies with the right to submit a further claim, for any 
consequential losses that had arisen from the points upheld by the GRG review.
The companies then made their claim for consequential losses. After reviewing the claim, 
RBS offered a total of £6,232.15 for professional assistance and for management time spent 
in pursuing the complaint. 
L and D were unhappy with the banks response regarding consequential losses and 
referred their complaint to this service. The companies said the banks reliance on internal 
valuations and its charging of the risk fee had caused the following losses:
accelerated loan repayments
increased interest costs
a security review fee
losses on sales of assets
costs resulting from refinancing with another lender in 2017
The companies also claimed for costs incurred for professional advice and representation in 
order to pursue their complaint, and for wasted management time. 
Having looked at the evidence, our investigator concluded that in respect of all these points, 
the bank didnt need to do anything further. He gave the following reasons, in summary:
He wasnt persuaded that the companies had shown that banks reliance on internal 
valuations had caused the losses claimed. He didnt think the companies had 
demonstrated that the internal valuations were wrong or that external valuations 
would have been higher.
Even if external valuations had produced the higher figures suggested by L and D, 
the companies borrowing would still have been outside the banks loan-to-value 
(LTV) requirements and the banks actions would therefore have been no different. 
The companies would therefore have had to reduce their borrowing, and this would 
have been achieved by asset sales. 
The investigator hadnt seen any actions by the bank that would have forced the 
companies to refinance with another lender in 2017. He believed this was the 
companies independent decision.
If the risk fee hadnt been charged in 2011, the bank would have been entitled to 
charge an arrangement fee of approximately the same amount. 
The investigator didnt think the companies needed professional advice and 
representation in order to pursue their complaint with the bank.
The companies chose to issue a claim in the courts. It wouldnt be fair for this service 
to require the bank to reimburse their legal costs. Ultimately it would be a matter for 
the courts to determine costs.
L and D disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. Their representative said the companies would have obtained further 
valuations had the bank given them the opportunity. They said those valuations would have 
been significantly higher, and as a result the companies wouldnt have suffered the losses 
being claimed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint the directors of L and D, but Ive come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator, and for largely the same reasons.
I need to look at whether the banks failures actually caused the consequential losses 
claimed by the companies. And if they did, Id also need to ask whether its fair to hold the 
bank responsible for the losses. To do this, Id need to ask whether the bank could 
reasonably foresee that its failures would result in losses like these. In other words, Id need 
to be satisfied the losses werent too remote from the banks failings.
In making these assessments, I need to compare what actually happened with whats likely 
to have happened in the absence of the banks failings  in other words, if bank hadnt relied 
on the internal valuations or charged the risk fee.
Consequential losses allegedly caused by the banks reliance on internal valuations 
in 2011 and 2012
The companies representative has produced lengthy and detailed submissions regarding 
the valuations of the properties. I accept that if there had been full professional valuations, the figures are likely to have differed from the banks internal valuations. However, having 
looked at the arguments and evidence, Im not persuaded that full professional valuations 
would have produced figures as high as the representatives estimates. But even if Im 
wrong about this and the valuations would have been at the level suggested by these 
estimates, the companies LTV position would still have been outside the banks 
requirements. I therefore believe RBS would have subsequently taken the same decisions 
and actions to which the companies attribute their losses.
I also note that RBSs decisions and actions regarding the companies borrowing werent 
based solely on the LTV figures. In addition, the bank variously took into account the expiry 
of facilities, the financial distress of the companies and other factors that influenced its 
assessment of the level of lending risk. However, Im satisfied that, to the extent that the LTV 
figures did play a part in the banks risk assessments, RBSs decisions and actions 
regarding the companies borrowing would have been no different if there had been external 
valuations which produced figures in line with the estimates in the companies submissions.
For these reasons, I dont find that the consequential losses claimed by the companies were 
caused by the banks failings regarding the internal property valuations.
Consequential losses allegedly caused by the bank unreasonably charging the risk 
fee in 2011
Had the £61,250 risk fee not been charged, its likely that the companies would have been 
charged an arrangement fee of £59,063 instead. In my view, the net benefit of £2,187 to the 
companies wouldnt have resulted in any material change to the subsequent course of 
events. 
I therefore dont find that the consequential losses claimed by the companies were caused 
by the banks failings regarding the risk fee.
Costs of professional assistance and representation
In October 2019, RBS paid £3,600 to meet the cost of obtaining professional advice for the 
companies claim.
For legal and representative costs, the companies have additionally claimed £2,400 for initial 
assessment and £21,000 for work up to the initial complaint outcome, and between £15,000 
and £25,000 for work since then. For accountancy costs, the companies have claimed 
£11,730.
RBS has offered to pay £2,730 legal and representative costs, and £2,443.75 accountancy 
costs.
Here I would consider the professional costs associated only with the upheld parts of the 
companies initial complaint and consequential loss claim. I couldnt reasonably award costs 
for the companies pursuit of any points that havent been upheld by the bank or this service. 
The companies were of course entitled to take professional advice and to choose to be 
represented, but I wouldnt require RBS to reimburse the costs unless I believed the 
customer would have found it too difficult to complain about the upheld points without 
professional help. I agree with the investigator that the core arguments involved in the 
upheld points arent particularly complicated, and I believe the companies could have made 
their complaint and claim themselves. I therefore dont require the bank to meet the costs of 
professional help and representation.The companies have also claimed for legal costs incurred in pursuing a case in the courts. 
The ombudsman service was set up to provide an alternative to the courts, where 
appropriate, and I dont believe it would be reasonable for me to make an award for the 
costs of pursuing court action. 
Wasted management time
The companies have claimed for losses of £8,181 for directors time taken up in pursuing the 
initial complaint and consequential loss claim. RBS have offered a compensation payment of 
£1,058.40.
I havent seen any evidence of how the companies suffered business losses from the 
deployment of management time in pursuit of the complaint and claim. But in any event, Ive 
already said that the core arguments involved in the upheld points arent particularly 
complicated, so I think its unlikely that dealing with them would have materially disrupted the 
companies business activities. I therefore dont require the bank to meet the costs for 
management time.
In conclusion
For the reasons given above, I dont require the bank to pay L and D any compensation for 
the consequential losses claimed. 
In May 2020, the bank offered to pay compensation totalling £6,232.15 to settle the 
complaint. I understand that the banks offer is still open. If the companies now wish to 
accept that offer, they should contact The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require RBS to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L and D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman