DRN-3568086
The complaint
Mr B complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a holiday club membership and the loan 
used to pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which 
trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr B is represented by a 
claims management business, which Ill call S.
What happened
S has explained that, in July 2006, a company, C, offered Mr and Mrs B trial membership of 
a holiday club, an offer which they accepted. In December 2006 they agreed to upgrade the 
trial and to buy a points-based membership which they financed with the aid of a loan from a 
lender, G.
In December 2008 Mr and Mrs B decided to upgrade their membership, as they found they 
were not enjoying the benefits of membership in the way they had expected. In order to fund 
the upgrade and to repay the loan with G, Mr B took out a loan with BPF.
Further changes to Mr and Mrs Bs arrangements with C were made in 2012, this time 
financed by a third lender, H. The BPF loan was repaid in May 2016.
In or around January 2021 S contacted BPF on behalf of Mr and Mrs B, raising a number of 
issues about the club membership and the finance provided to fund it. Mr and Mrs Bs 
concerns were said to include:
BPF had not properly assessed whether the loan was affordable.
The Spanish courts have decided that agreements of the type Mr and Mrs B entered 
into with C are void, along with any associated finance agreements.
The benefits of membership had been misrepresented by C. Specifically, Mr and Mrs B 
had not been able to book accommodation of the type they wanted at the times they 
wanted. Because BPF had financed the contract with C, it was equally liable to Mr and 
Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B had not realised that they had bought floating weeks, rather than a 
specific period at an identifiable timeshare property.
The arrangements were not compliant with the 1994 Timeshare Directive.
There were breaches of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the Unfair Terms in 
Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999. In particular, the interest rate of 15.8% a year 
was extortionate and therefore unfair.
BPF did not accept the complaint, and S referred it to this service. Our investigator did not
recommend that it be upheld, primarily because of the time which had passed since
December 2008, when the loan was agreed. That position was endorsed by a senior
investigator when S made further submissions and asked that the case be reviewed by an
ombudsman.
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
First, I note that the loan was in the name of Mr B only, so only he can bring a complaint 
about BPF. That is the case even though Mrs B was a party to the contract with C.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
The rules about what complaints this service can consider are included in that part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook that deals with disputes  known as DISP. Those 
rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six 
years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.
One of the events complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out 
(or did not carry out) in December 2008. Mr B would have known fairly soon after that date if 
he was having difficulty making repayments. He certainly would have known by the time the 
loan was repaid. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this 
service by no later than 17 December 2014  six years from the date Mr B took out the loan. 
Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.
The 1994 Timeshare Directive
Mr Bs case here is that the agreement he and Mrs B entered into with C is void and that the 
loan agreement is similarly void. S says that is the case because, in short, the contract did 
not include details of any timeshare property in which their clients had an interest.
I think it is at least arguable that the event complained of here  granting a loan which was 
void  is one that occurred more than six years before any complaint was made and that, as 
with the complaint about the affordability assessment, this service has no power to consider 
it. I do note however that BPF continued to accept loan repayments until 2016.
Be that as it may, the Directive was incorporated into English law by the Timeshare 
Regulations 1997, which in turn amended the Timeshare Act 1992. The Regulations 
changed the definition of timeshare slightly, but not, in my view, so as to cover the 
arrangement which Mr and Mrs B entered into in 2008.
S says that the agreement is void because it did not specify Mr and Mrs Bs timeshare 
property with sufficient clarity. In my view, however, the position is that the points-based club 
membership which Mr and Mrs B bought did not meet the definition of a timeshare, and so 
the 1992 Act and the 1997 Regulations did not apply.
I note as well that S has referred to a decision of the Spanish courts. But Mr and Mrs B are 
resident in the UK, the agreement was with a UK company and was expressly subject to 
English law. It did not refer to any particular property, either in Spain or anywhere else. So, 
even if I were to take the view that this service does have the power to consider this part of 
the complaint, I do not believe I can fairly say that the loan agreement is void as a result of 
the Directive.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
S says that C made statements about the club membership and that BPF is responsible for 
them. Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
S also says that BPF is responsible for any misrepresentations made by C. One effect of 
section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that claim 
against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. The loan 
documentation does not refer to C, so the exact relationship between BPF and C is not 
clear, but I have approached this case on the basis that the loan was set up as a result of 
pre-existing arrangements between the two and that section 75 could therefore apply.
I must therefore consider how a court might approach the claims against C. S says that C 
misled Mr and Mrs B about the holiday club membership.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party  
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract.
Under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation 
cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs B into the contract for the 
purchase of holiday club membership were made on or before 17 December 2008. They did 
not however raise any complaint with BPF until early 2021, some thirteen years later. I think 
it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against [C] was made 
outside the time limit in the Limitation Act.
P says that the six year time limit does not apply here, because the relevant time limit is 
extended where the claimant did not know they had a cause of action. Mr and Mrs B did not 
know the loan was void until S advised them about the effect of the Directive.
On the first point, I think it likely that Mr and Mrs B would have known some years ago if, for 
example, they were unable to book the holidays they expected to be able to book or that the 
management fees associated with club membership were higher than they had been told. 
Indeed, their own statement suggests that they had been unhappy for a long time before 
they raised any complaint at all. I note too that, by December 2008, they had already been 
club members for more than two years.
That said, the provisions of the Limitation Act concerning knowledge generally apply to 
claims in negligence where damage is not immediately apparent  for example, where 
defective building work does not come to light until many years after completion, or in cases 
of medical negligence. It does not generally apply to misrepresentation claims.
Be that as it may, it is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against C is now out 
of time under the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the 
claim under section 56 and/or section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a 
court would say that the claims are time-barred, I think it was.
Claims that the loan agreement was unfair
As well as saying that the loan was unfair because of the actions of C, S also says that it 
was unfair on its own terms. It has referred to the interest rate of 15.8% a year, which it says 
was extortionate and therefore clearly unfair.Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, P says that Mr B seeks refunds of sums paid 
under the loan agreement.
Under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR), terms which 
are unfair are not enforceable against a supplier (in this case, BPF). A term which is unfair 
is one which creates a significant imbalance in favour of the supplier.
S says that the term of the loan specifying the interest rate is unfair in this case. But terms 
which represent the price of goods or services cannot usually be assessed for fairness under 
UTCCR. In my view, the interest rate was part of the price  indeed, the main part of the 
price  for borrowing money. Nor does it seem to me that the interest rate created an unfair 
relationship. It was clearly set out in the loan documentation.
S has also said that the arrangements were unfair because Mr B was not given a choice of 
lender. I accept that C suggested the loan with BPF, but Mr B was not obliged to take it. He 
could have used a different payment method or not bought the upgraded membership at all. 
But C offered a loan with BPF because it had pre-existing arrangements with it. Those 
arrangements are central to a major part of Mr Bs case  namely that, under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act, BPF is liable for misrepresentations made by C. That is, I think, an 
unrealistic and inconsistent approach for S to take. Loans made under such arrangements 
are extremely common in consumer finance, and there was nothing particularly unusual 
about the arrangements in this case.
S has also suggested that commission arrangements might create an unfair arrangement. It 
has cited as an example the position where a lender receives a large commission for selling 
payment protection insurance. The position here is rather different, however, since BPF did 
not introduce something extra to the loan in return for commission. Rather, C introduced 
BPF to Mr B. That said, the complaint about commission appears to me to be speculative at 
best. The commission paid in these cases was typically quite modest (if any was paid at all), 
so I dont believe I can fairly say it created an unfair relationship here.
My provisional decision was therefore that BPF did not need to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint. 
S did not accept my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
The limitation period for a claim under sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit 
Act is six years from the date on which the loan was repaid, so Mr Bs claim under that 
head was made in time. 
The sale contract was not compliant with the Timeshare Act and the Timeshare 
Directive. The effect of that was to extend the cancellation period. 
No payments should be taken within the (extended) cancellation period. BPF had 
however made such a payment and, in doing so, had acted negligently. 
In cases of negligence, the time limit for bringing an action runs from the date of 
knowledge needed to bring an action. Mr B did not have that knowledge until S advised 
him of the position.     
BPF said it had nothing to add. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S says that the relevant time limit for bringing a claim under section 140A and section 140B 
of the Consumer Credit Act is six years and that it runs from the date on which the loan is 
repaid. I broadly agree with that analysis, and I discussed in my provisional decision why I 
did not believe that a court would be likely to find that the loan created an unfair relationship. 
I stress of course that only a court can make a finding under section 140A, but I must have 
regard to relevant law in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
In its response to my provisional decision, S alleged that Mr Bs contract with C was not 
compliant with the Timeshare Act. The consequences of that were, it said, that the 
cancellation period was extended, that BPF had made a payment during the cancellation 
period, that it had acted negligently in doing so and that time limits were extended to that 
date on which Mr B became aware he had a claim in negligence against BPF. 
S's argument on this point depends on the sale agreement being one in respect of 
timeshare accommodation within the meaning of section 1 of the Timeshare Act. But I said 
in my provisional decision: 
 the Directive was incorporated into English law by the Timeshare Regulations 1997, 
which in turn amended the Timeshare Act 1992. The Regulations changed the definition of 
timeshare slightly, but not, in my view, so as to cover the arrangement which Mr and Mrs B 
entered into in 2008.  
Put another way, the Timeshare Act and the Timeshare Regulations did not apply here, for 
the simple reason that Mr B did not buy a timeshare; he bought a holiday club membership. 
It follows that C cannot have been in breach of the Act or of the Regulations. Holiday clubs 
were not regulated in the same way until the introduction of  The Timeshare, Holiday 
Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010, which came into force in 
February 2011. Any alleged failure to comply with the 1992 Act and/or the 1997 Regulations 
cannot form the basis of a complaint about BPF.   
It follows that I do not need to discuss whether BPF was negligent in making payment when 
it did. I would note however that any complaint about a payment made by BPF in or around 
December 2012 is likely to be out of time under our own rules (which I have discussed 
above). Mr B would have known almost immediately that the payment had been made and  
at the latest  when he started making payments to BPF. 
S has not responded to every point in my provisional decision, but I have nevertheless 
reviewed the file and my provisional findings in full before issuing this decision. Having done 
so, I have not altered my view. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman