DRN-2322727
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how Fairmead Insurance Limited have handled their home 
insurance claim, and the settlement they have been offered.
All references to Fairmead also include its agents.
Fairmead issued its final response to this complaint on 17 October 2019. So my decision 
only takes into account issues up to this date.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says Fairmead will
at our option repair or replace the property claimed for using a repair or 
replacement supplier nominated by us. Where you prefer to use your own 
tradesman, we will need to agree this with you beforehand and the amount we will 
pay you will not exceed the what we would have paid our supplier.
I can see from claim notes Mr and Mrs G were given three options at beginning of the 
claim including using Fairmeads panel of contractors or providing quotes from their 
own contractors.  Mr and Mrs G chose to provide quotes from their own contractors  
so Fairmead eventually cash settled the claim. The policy sets out clearly what would 
happen. So I dont think Fairmead have acted unreasonably in settling Mr and Mrs 
Gs claim in this way
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the amount Fairmead have paid in their cash 
settlement, as it is significantly lower than quotes provided by any of their 
contractors. This isnt unusual as a lot of insurers have a panel of contractors - 
meaning usually they have pre agreed rates with them. I have however looked at the 
scope of works available and all the information provided by both sides, and Ive not 
seen anything that persuades me the scope of work proposed by Fairmead was 
inadequate to achieve effective and lasting repairs. So Im not persuaded the 
settlement Fairmead gave Mr and Mrs G was unfair
Mr and Mrs G have said they later asked Fairmead if they could now use their panel 
of contractors but were refused. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me this 
was the case.  I can see Mr and Mrs G raised the issue of the settlement amount with 
Fairmead again in October 2019. But Fairmead had already said in their final 
response it believed the settlement amount to be correct  and I cant see anything 
that suggests Mr and Mrs G changed their mind during the claim about using their 
own contractor
Mr and Mrs G have asked Fairmead to provide a breakdown of the costs of the 
settlement amount. Fairmead said theyre unable to provide a breakdown in the way 
Mr and Mrs G have asked  but I can see it offered to send them breakdown of the 
work required, uncosted. Although I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs G have asked 
for this, due to the arrangement most insurers have with their panel of contractors, I 
can understand why it wouldnt be possible for Fairmead to give them this information 
in the way theyve asked. So I dont think theyve acted unreasonably here
From looking at all available information I can see there were times, particularly at 
the beginning of the claim where Fairmead couldve responded to Mr and Mrs G 
faster - or done more. I can see Mrs G made several calls to Fairmead to chase them 
about the progress of their claim, and they were prompt in responding to Fairmead 
when it asked for information. So I can appreciate their frustration
Fairmead accepted there were times it couldve done more when handling Mr and 
Mrs Gs claim and have offered them £200 compensation. Considering everything 
available to me, I think this is reasonable in the circumstances as I think this fairly 
reflects the inconvenience Mr and Mrs G have been caused
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman