DRN-3437034
The complaint
Miss W complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly gave her a credit card that she 
couldnt afford. 
What happened
In March 2015 Vanquis, Miss W applied for a Vanquis credit card. She was given an initial 
credit limit of £500, which was later increased to £1,250 in May 2016. 
Miss W began getting into difficulties with her account in August 2018. Vanquis sent her a 
default letter February 2019. The account was then passed on to a third party in September 
2019. 
Miss W says the account shouldnt have been opened for her because it wasnt affordable.  
She also says she shouldnt have been given the credit limit increase because she had 
debts elsewhere and was having difficulty managing her account. 
However, to be clear, in this decision I will not be looking into the merits of whether Vanquis 
was right to grant Miss W the card. Thats because, for reasons that our adjudicator has 
already given and Miss W has accepted, that part of the complaint has been brought to us 
too late under our rules.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She took the view that Vanquiss 
decision to approve the credit limit increase for Miss W was fair. 
Because Miss W disagrees, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
I think the checks that were completed showed that the increase to Miss Ws credit limit was 
likely to be affordable. Vanquis carried out a credit search at the time that showed she had 
around £423 of debt but appeared to be managing her borrowing elsewhere well. Vanquis 
also noted that Miss W had not had a default recorded over the previous 30 months and it 
was 31 months since shed received a county court judgment. For these reasons, I dont 
think Vanquis acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
However, it doesnt necessarily follow that because Vanquis carried out proportionate 
checks, it went on to make a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information about the credit limit increase showed. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Vanquis to have found out more about Miss Ws 
committed expenditure, such as her living costs, before granting her the increase. I cant be 
sure exactly what Vanquis would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything 
else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in 
Miss Ws bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed 3 months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. I agree with 
our adjudicator that, whilst Miss Ws level of income fluctuated during this period, she was 
receiving a monthly income that averaged out at not less than £1700. Ive also seen that 
Miss W had monthly outgoings of around £1,300 and that this included some monthly 
committed expenditure relating to lending. Ive also kept in mind what Miss W has told us 
about falling behind with some council tax and utility payments at the time. 
The evidence and information Ive seen overall demonstrates that Miss W appears to have 
had enough disposable income each month to make regular, sustainable repayments 
towards the increased credit limit. Having completed proportionate checks, I therefore think 
its likely Vanquis would have discovered this too. It therefore didnt act unfairly by increasing 
the limit. 
So, although I dont think Vanquiss actions were necessarily appropriate at all times, I dont 
think Vanquiss actions in increasing the limit to £1,250 caused Miss W to lose out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman