DRN-1510068
 
The complaint
Mr N, represented by a third party, says that Ferratum UK Ltd lent money to him that he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
This complaint is about four loans Ferratum provided to Mr N between April 2018 and July 
2018. Mr Ns borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Term Amount
1 19/04/2018 30/04/2018 11 days £200
2 30/04/2018 31/05/2018 32 days £300
3 06/06/2018 29/06/2018 29 days £200
4 06/07/2018 Outstanding revolving credit £800
 
In summary, Mr N says that at the time of the loans he was in a spiral of debt and the loans 
werent affordable. He says adequate checks werent carried out before the loans were 
provided. 
In its final response letter to Mr N, Ferratum made an offer as a gesture of goodwill. Mr N 
didnt accept Ferratums offer and his complaint was brought to this service. Ferratum said 
that as Mr N didn't accept its offer this was withdrawn. In response to our information 
request, Ferratum said that adequate checks were carried out before the loans were 
provided and the information gathered showed the loans were affordable. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ns complaint in regard to loan four.
Ferratum accepted our adjudicators view. It noted that loan four was still outstanding and 
any refund would be set against the outstanding balance and that it would amend his credit 
file once repaid.
Mr N didnt accept our adjudicators view. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr N could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mr N could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough to say that loans one to three shouldnt have 
been provided. I have considered this early stage in the lending relationship. 
Before the loans were provided, information was gathered about Mr Ns income and 
expenses. Mr Ns monthly income was recorded as £2,751 and his monthly expenses as 
£1,200. I find the checks carried out at the start of the lending relationships were 
proportionate. In regard to the first three loans, having considered the information regarding 
Mr Ns disposable income and given the size of the repayments due compared to Mr Ns 
monthly income, I do not find it unreasonable that these loans were provided.By loan four, Mr N had shown signs that he was struggling to manage his money. Loan two 
was taken out the same day loan one was repaid and loan three was taken out only a few 
days after loan two was repaid. Loan four was the fourth loan in less than three months. 
It was taken out days after the repayment of loan three suggesting that Mr N was taking out 
new loans due to the hole left in his finances from the repayment of previous loans. At this 
time, further investigation would have shown that Mr N a making use of other short term loan 
providers.
Loan four was for a much larger amount suggesting that Mr Ns financial situation was 
possibly getting worse and he was increasing his level of indebtedness. I do not find that this 
loan should have been considered sustainably affordable for Mr N.
Given the above, I agree with our adjudicator that loan four shouldnt have been provided. 
Putting things right
Mr Ns fourth loan is still outstanding. Therefore, Ferratum should, as it has agreed:
waive all interest and charges on this loan and apply all payments Mr N has made 
towards this loan as if they were payments towards the capital amount.
 
once repaid, remove loan four from Mr Ns credit file.
 
I understand from the calculations provided that this will still leave an outstanding balance. 
Ferratum should work with Mr N to agree an affordable repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr N complaint. Ferratum UK Ltd 
should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman