DRN-1865420
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) avoided 
his buildings and contents insurance policy and refused to pay his claim. 
All references to Ocaso in my decision include its agents.
What happened
Mr S bought a buildings and contents insurance policy through a broker via an online 
comparison website in March 2019. In July 2019 Mr Ss home was broken into and items of 
jewellery  among other things  were stolen. Mr S reported the incident to his insurer, 
Ocaso.
Ocaso instructed a loss adjuster to visit Mr S and in the meantime asked Mr S to list the 
items that were stolen with an estimate of their value. Mr S listed one of the items  a 
necklace  as having an estimated value of £4,500. 
The basis of Mr Ss policy with Ocaso was to provide insurance including cover for any 
single high value item at £2,000, which Mr S would have needed to specify.
Ocaso said Mr S answered the question incorrectly about whether he had any single value 
items with a value of over £2,000, as Mr S answered no. It said if hed answered it correctly, 
Ocaso wouldnt have provided him with a quote to buy the policy. So Ocaso considered this 
to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid Mr Ss policy from March 2019 
and keep the premium hed paid. 
Mr S was also unhappy that Ocaso wouldnt share the validation report from the loss 
adjuster with him. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
thought Mr S was made clearly aware of the level of cover his policy provided. He 
understood why Mr S may not have asked his family about the value of the jewellery  but 
he thought it reasonable that Mr S would have made his own arrangements to have the 
items valued to ensure they would be correctly insured. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator and wants an ombudsman to decide. He and his legal 
representative believe that the remedy Ocaso has given isnt reasonable. Mr S wants Ocaso 
to meet his claim up to the value it would have accepted risk for. 
In the meantime, Ocaso agreed for a copy of the validation report to be forwarded to Mr S, 
which he has acknowledged receipt of.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
In this case, the broker acted on behalf of Mr S. A broker as an agent of Mr S may make a 
misrepresentation. So my decision is about whether the information the broker passed to 
Ocaso on Mr Ss behalf was accurate. 
Ocaso says Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered no to having any single value items over £2,000, which was their threshold for 
risk in providing insurance for Mr S.
Ive looked at the Statement of Fact which reflects the questions asked of Mr S when he 
bought the policy. This shows that he answered no to the statements: High risk items 
valued over £2,000 and total high risk items limit: £15,000.
The Statement of Fact highlights the consequences of having the policy avoided and a claim 
refused if the information Mr S provides isnt accurate and to the best of his knowledge. 
Mr S said that he didnt know the value of the necklace as it was a gift from family. He only 
became aware of the value when the loss adjuster asked him to provide an estimate of the 
value of the stolen items. It was then that he discovered the value of a necklace was £4,500.
However, it is for Mr S to take reasonable care not to misrepresent the information he 
provides to an insurer when requesting cover. This is important because every insurer has a 
different appetite for risk  and so it may be that an insurer will not provide cover if the risk is 
above their threshold. 
Having viewed the loss adjusters validation report, there are three single items of jewellery 
valued at over £2,000. In particular, two items (including the necklace Mr S has highlighted) 
are valued at over £4,000 and £9,000. The total value of the jewellery items came to over 
£33,000.
So I think Mr S failed to take reasonable care. Clearly there is a disparity between the 
jewellers valuation of the items and the limits set by Ocaso - which Mr S said his items fell 
below - when he bought the policy.
The next stage of the process for me to consider is whether the misrepresentation was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. In other words, did it make a difference. Ocaso says if it had 
known Mr S owned a single value item above £2,000, it wouldnt have offered him an 
insurance policy. 
An insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and so it doesnt share it with 
consumers. However, we ask insurers to share this information with us so that we can be 
satisfied it has treated a customer fairly. If Ocasos underwriting criteria showed that it would 
provide proportionate cover in these circumstances, we would expect them to have taken 
this approach.However, having viewed Ocasos underwriting criteria Im satisfied that it wouldnt have 
offered Mr S a policy if hed taken reasonable care to provide an accurate estimate for the 
high value single items. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Ocaso kept the premium Mr S paid when it avoided his policy. In this case the costs of the 
claim exceeded £1,000, but the premium Mr S paid was £215.91. Ocaso instructed an agent 
to temporarily secure Mr Ss property after the burglary as well as instructing a loss adjuster 
and jewellery specialist. So I think Ocasos decision to keep the premium was reasonable in 
offsetting some of the claim costs, although I think the qualifying misrepresentation was 
careless. 
I understand Mr S is upset that the premium hes had to pay for alternative insurance is 
much higher. But I think Ocasos actions were reasonable and in accordance with CIDRA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman