DRN-3468218
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to protect his funds from 
being spent on gambling.
What happened
Mr R held a current account and a joint savings account with his late wife with Nationwide.
When Mr Rs late wife passed away Mr R transferred a large proportion of money from the 
savings account over a period of a month into his personal account which he then withdrew 
in cash and spent on gambling.
Mr R then complained via a personal representative that Nationwide hadnt done enough to 
protect the funds in the savings account. They said Nationwide should have noticed the 
activity on the account was unusual and done more to try and stop the funds being spent on 
gambling.
Nationwide didnt agree. It said it had asked Mr R what the funds were for and was told to 
was to top up his current account to use for bills. It said it didnt consider it a cause for 
concern because Mr R was transferring money from his own account, to his own account. 
And it said it didnt consider the cash withdrawals a cause for concern either, because these 
types of transactions are considered secure.
Mr R didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. The representative also complained about 
how distressing the whole situation had been for them and wanted compensation for that 
too.
An investigator here didnt uphold the complaint. They thought that Nationwide had followed 
its processes and found the reasons it gave for not intervening with the transfers reasonable. 
They also explained they couldnt look into the distress caused to the personal 
representative, as Mr R, not they, were the eligible complainant bringing the complaint to us.
Mr R didnt agree and maintains Nationwide should have done more. Theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand this will come as a huge 
disappointment for Mr R. Ill explain my reasoning.
Banks have a responsibility to safeguard their customers and their money. Each 
bank may have different processes in place and procedures they follow. I can 
consider whether they followed those processes, and whether there was anything 
more they should have done.
Nationwide say when asked the reason for the transfer, Mr R said it was to top up his 
current account. Mr Rs rep thinks this is unlikely and that in any event Nationwide 
should have known this was untrue because they could see the activity on the 
current account. The amount transferred does seem excessive to top up an account 
to cover bills, but its not clear what bills Mr R was referring to, or how long he 
intended to keep the current account topped up for. Unfortunately, I dont think were 
ever going to find out exactly what he told Nationwide at the time. But on balance, 
based on the accounts from staff, I think its likely Mr R was questioned over the 
purpose of the transfers, and gave Nationwide a reasonably plausible explanation.
Nationwide didnt consider Mr R transferring funds for his savings account to his 
current account a cause for concern. They were both his accounts. And after the 
passing of his wife, the joint savings account became Mr Rs sole responsibility. I 
dont find that unreasonable.
The amount of transfers over a month was unusual. Mr R went into branch on four 
occasions and transferred a considerable amount to his current account during that 
time. I think Nationwide could have possibly done more to find out what the funds 
were being used for after the first large transaction. But Im not persuaded any further 
questions to Mr R would have resulted in a different outcome. I think had it asked or 
probed Mr R further on what the funds were being used for, its unlikely Mr R would 
have revealed what they were being spent on. And ultimately Mr R can move money 
from the savings account which became his sole responsibility after the passing of 
his wife, to his own account. 
I also find it reasonable that the ATM withdrawals werent flagged or blocked either. 
Nationwide has explained that these are typically safter types of transactions 
because they require both the card to be present, and the PIN to be entered to 
withdraw the money. I find that explanation reasonable. And I find it unlikely that if 
Nationwide did ask Mr R what these transactions were for, that he would have said 
they were being used on gambling. As the transactions were cash withdrawals, 
Nationwide had no way of knowing what the money was being spent on.
Based on the information Nationwide was likely provided, and the explanation of why 
the transfers and withdrawals werent flagged, I dont think Nationwide was 
reasonably aware the funds were being spent on gambling, nor do I think it 
reasonably should have known based on the information available to it at the time. I 
think it could, and perhaps should have done more to question Mr R after the first 
withdrawal, but I dont think in doing so Mr R would have been completely 
forthcoming with what the money was being spent on so dont think Nationwide were 
in a position to block the transfers or the cash withdrawals. 
Im unable to consider any distress caused to Mr Rs representative in this complaint, 
as Mr R, not they, are the eligible complainant.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman