DRN-2197987
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy how Help Your Claim Limited (HYC) dealt with a claim for mis-sold Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2017, Mr L instructed HYC to make claims for potentially mis-sold PPI against a number 
of lenders, including Lender B. Lender B said Mr L hadnt been sold PPI, so HYC couldnt 
progress that claim any further. But, in 2019, Lender B said theyd got it wrong in 2017 and 
Mr L had been sold PPI. Lender B investigated the claim and agreed the PPI had been mis-
sold, paying Mr L compensation for this. So HYC invoiced Mr L for their success fee.
Mr L has complained about how HYC dealt with the claim against Lender B. Hes unhappy 
HYC didnt tell him there were other ways he couldve made his claim. Hes also unhappy 
hes being charged a success fee of 30% plus VAT, when theres a fee cap of 20% plus VAT 
for PPI claims. Because HYC didnt uphold his complaint, he brought it to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator thought HYC had acted reasonably. He said the terms Mr L agreed to made 
it clear he didnt have to use HYC to make his claims. He also said the successful claim was 
originally submitted by HYC in 2017, and it was only because of an error by Lender B that 
the claim wasnt successful at that time. He thought that, if it hadnt been for HYC preparing 
and submitting the claim as instructed, Mr L wouldnt have received any compensation. So 
he said HYCs fees were due. 
The investigator also said that the fee cap on PPI claims was introduced in July 2018, after 
Mr L had instructed HYC to act for him. So it didnt apply to his claim against Lender B.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He says that HYC didnt keep him updated as to what 
was going on with his claim. He also doesnt think the investigator took enough time to fully 
consider all of the evidence before he reached his view, and hes provided extensive 
comments on the points the investigator referred to in the view. Because of this, hes asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision on his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. While Ive fully considered all of the evidence, and Mr Ls 
comments, Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen a copy of the Terms of Service Mr L signed when he instructed HYC on 9 March 
2017. These confirmed there is no requirement to use HYC to handle your claim. You have 
the right to seek further advice or shop around. The print was not so small it couldnt be 
read, nor were the terms hidden and could easily be missed - there were only 15 terms, and 
these were all on the same page Mr L signed, located just above his signature. 
So Im satisfied that Mr L wouldve been aware that he didnt need to use HYCs services. 
And, because the terms also included HYCs fees with examples, Mr L wouldve been aware 
what HYC were charging if he did use their services.
HYC said they received the paperwork from Mr L on 10 March 2017, and they sent the claim 
to Lender B the same day. Lender B responded on 13 March 2017 to say Mr L hadnt been 
sold PPI. Mr Ls said this was an quick turnaround, and he wouldve expected Lender B to 
take longer to review his claim. I agree it was unusually quick, but this doesnt mean it didnt 
happen in the timeframe stated. And I cant say HYC did anything wrong because of the 
speed Lender B took in rejecting the claim.
But Lender B had made an error. In their letter of 29 July 2019, Lender B explained that HYC 
had started the claim process for Mr L, but theyd incorrectly told them that Mr L didnt have 
any PPI. And they said theyd need a PPI questionnaire completed in order to now assess 
the claim from 2017. Lender B sent a copy of this letter to both Mr L and HYC.
In sending the letter to HYC, Lender B knew they were representing Mr L in the claim. So Id 
have expected Lender B to deal with HYC in getting the PPI questionnaire completed. But 
they didnt, they went direct to Mr L instead. I understand they did this for speed. But Lender 
B choosing to cut HYC out of the process doesnt mean that HYC were no longer 
representing Mr L.
Mr L has also said that HYC didnt contact him about his claim between 2017 and 2019. And 
when they did contact him, it was by text message, not by letter (which he considers is a 
more appropriate method of communication) as Lender B did.
Because Lender B told everyone in error in 2017 that Mr L hadnt been sold PPI, I wouldnt 
expect HYC to keep in contact with Mr L about this claim. As far as anyone was aware the 
claim was closed. And, because Mr L hadnt provided HYC with any proof hed been sold 
PPI by Lender B, there was no reason for HYC to think that Lender B had got it wrong.
Lender B would likely know if Mr L was still living at the same address, because Mr L had 
accounts with them. But this wouldnt have been the case for HYC. So, while Lender B wrote 
to Mr L, I dont think its unreasonable for HYC to send him a text message. If Mr L had 
changed his number, the text message wouldve been rejected and HYC wouldve known 
this wasnt a valid method of communication. But a letter sent to an old address would 
require any new occupants to return it before HYC wouldve known of any address change.
Mr L has also said that HYC shouldve told him at this point that he had the option to make 
his claim with Lender B himself at no cost. I disagree because this wasnt the case. Mr L had 
the right to do this in 2017, and he chose to use HYC to make the claim. Which they did. So, 
by instructing HYC in 2017, Mr L had waived his right to make the claim against Lender B 
himself, unless hed first cancelled the agreement with HYC. Which he didnt.
In their letter of 16 September 2019, Lender B told Mr L theyd reviewed the claim based on 
the information you provided, the information provided by [HYC] and our internal system 
evidence. As a result of this review, Lender B said we agree that we mis-sold you [PPI]. 
They went on to explain that, because they couldnt calculate the exact premiums Mr L had 
paid, the compensation of £3,384.48 was based on average values.So, if Lender B hadnt made the error, the claim wouldve been successful and Mr L wouldve 
received compensation in 2017. HYC wouldve then invoiced him for their fees at that point, 
and there wouldve been no argument that these fees were rightfully due.
Lender B, along with most other PPI providers, didnt investigate potentially mis-sold PPI 
policies unless a mis-selling claim was made. And Mr L chose to make this claim through 
HYC. So the claim was only successful because of the work HYC did in 2017. For this 
reason, I agree that their fee is rightfully due; as it wouldve been in 2017 if Lender B hadnt 
told everyone Mr L hadnt been sold PPI. 
HYC charge a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually did. This means, where a claim was successful, HYCs fee may be more or less 
than the value of the work they did. So, just because HYCs fee is higher than the value of 
the work they did for Mr L on this specific claim, this doesnt make their fee unjustified.
When Mr L instructed HYC in 2017, the Terms of Service said they would charge a 30% fee 
+ vat on all amounts refunded. But a fee cap later came into force for all new claims started 
after July 2018. This doesnt apply to Mr Ls claim, as it was started in 2017. And it wasnt 
the intention of the Claims Management Regulator, the body who imposed the fee cap, that 
this would retrospectively apply to any claims started before the fee cap came into force
So HYC are entitled to charge the fees Mr L agreed to in 2017. Mr Ls said hes being 
penalised for Lender Bs error in 2017, because hes now having to pay HYCs success fee. 
But, as Ive said, if the error hadnt been made in 2017, Mr L wouldve had to pay this fee at 
that point. So I dont think hes being penalised for Lender Bs error; hes being put back into 
the situation he wouldve been if Lender B hadnt made their error in the first place. Because 
of this, I wont be asking HYC to reduce, or waive, their fee.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about Help Your Claim 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman