DRN-2902208
The complaint
Mrs G complains that a personal loan provided to her by Everyday Lending Limited, trading 
as Everyday Loans, (ELL), was unaffordable. The complaint has been brought to this 
service by a claims management company on Mrs Gs behalf. But for ease, I shall refer 
below to all actions being taken by Mrs G.
What happened
Mrs G was given a loan by ELL in September 2017. The loan was for £3,000 and was 
repayable by 24 monthly payments of £201.82. The interest rate was 50.9%, (64.6% APR). If 
Mrs G made each payment when it was due, shed pay £4,843.68 in total. Mrs G repaid the 
loan in April 2018. 
Mrs G said, in summary, that she didnt believe that ELL had suitably assessed her 
application. As a result of this loan, shed had to take out a loan to consolidate her debts.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
noted that the loan would be used for consolidating outstanding consumer credit. But looking 
at Mrs Gs pattern of borrowing, and that the bank statements ELL had seen showed Mrs G 
had no disposable income, the investigator thought it was highly unlikely that Mrs G would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way, or without having to borrow further.
ELL disagreed. It said, in summary, that it had included Mrs Gs new mortgage repayment 
amount in its calculations. It calculated a customers personal expenditure by using 35% of a 
customers net income and 35% of net income was widely regarded as the national average. 
This amounted to £552.35 for this loan. Mrs G had remortgaged in August 2017 to settle two 
loans and she was using its loan to consolidate other loans. So, Mrs G would have been in a 
better financial position and its calculation shows Mrs G had a disposable income of £183.17 
after her loans were consolidated.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
When ELL lent to Mrs G, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
ELL needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower 
could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Mrs G could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice, this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs G undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs G. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period);
ELL said in its final response letter that the loan was to be used for consolidating loans and 
for a holiday. ELL had seen Mrs Gs most recent payslip and had seen two months bank 
statements. It had also done a credit search. ELL calculated Mrs Gs disposable income to 
be £183.17 after taking account of the credit to be consolidated (two payday loans) and its 
monthly loan repayment. Its Go Live Audit form shows its calculations had taken into 
account Mrs Gs new mortgage repayment amount of £534.81 and Mrs Gs existing credit 
commitments of £106.
Mrs G was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. She would need to make 
monthly repayments of £201.82 for 24 months. So, I think it was right that ELL wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive described above 
allowed ELL to form a detailed view of Mrs Gs finances, and I think that the checks ELL did 
were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Ive looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
Ive reviewed ELLs credit checks before the loan. I can see that Mrs G had a mortgage 
which I understand was increased shortly before the loan. The proceeds of the remortgage (£11,229.20) were used to repay two loans Mrs G had taken out in January 2017. These 
totalled over £10,000. I can see that Mrs G had missed two months repayments on one of 
those loans in the two months before her application to ELL. Mrs G had taken out another 
loan in March 2017. She paid £106 each month on this loan, and it had a balance of £958. I 
can see that Mrs G missed her monthly repayment on that loan in the month prior to her  
application to ELL. I think ELL might have been concerned that its credit checks and the 
other information it had seen showed that Mrs G had taken out four loans and borrowed over 
£22,000 in the eight months prior to the loan application, and shed recently missed 
payments on two loans. I think these checks suggest that Mrs Gs finances were seriously 
under pressure. And I think they might also have reasonably caused doubt on the accuracy 
of the disposable income it had calculated.
ELL had provided a list of Mrs Gs credit commitments. The list included two payday loans 
which werent shown in ELLs credit checks and are additional to the credit mentioned 
above. These totalled £550. I think they also ought to have caused concern to ELL as they 
also suggest that Mrs G was having difficulty managing her finances.
Mrs G had said that the two payday loans were to be repaid from its loan. But I cant see 
from the information received from ELL that it had made this a condition of the loan. So, it 
couldnt be sure that the loans would be paid off. 
I can also see that even if Mrs G used part of the loan proceeds for debt consolidation, her 
total indebtedness was still increasing. She said she was using a loan of £3,000 to repay 
debt of around £550, but she would need around £4,850 to repay the loan. But the term of 
ELLs loan was likely much longer than the loan terms for the loans Mrs G said she intended 
to clear. So, any short-term improvement in the amount of Mrs Gs credit commitments was 
significantly off-set by Mrs G having to pay ELLs high cost loan for 24 months.
I also dont think it was reasonable for ELL to rely on using a percentage of Mrs Gs income 
to calculate her living costs without verifying these. This was unlikely to reflect the existing 
commitments of someone in Mrs Gs circumstances. But I can see that it asked Mrs G for 
her bank statements and it could have used these to check Mrs Gs living costs.
Ive reviewed the two months bank statements ELL received from Mrs G which it has sent to 
this Service. I can see that ELL made some notes on the statements about some of the 
transactions. But it doesnt seem to have made a thorough check on Mrs Gs regular living 
costs. 
Ive reviewed Mrs Gs regular living costs on both statements. Taking into account Mrs Gs 
net monthly income of £1,578.15 used by ELL and her expenditure on her mortgage and 
outstanding loan, and all Mrs Gs reasonably identifiable spend on regular living costs such 
as council tax, food and household, medical, phone, TV/internet package, insurance, utilities, 
TV licence, water, and petrol doesnt leave her with sufficient disposable income to repay 
ELLs loan and for her to have enough money to meet any unexpected costs. Overall, I think 
the bank statements ELL had seen suggest that Mrs Gs regular living costs were 
significantly higher than the amount ELL had calculated. And I dont think ELL had properly 
scrutinised the information it did see to ensure that  Mrs G would have enough money to be 
able to sustainably make the payments over 24 months.
So overall, I think ELL was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mrs G based on the 
information it already had. I dont think it could be certain that Mrs G would be able to meet 
her repayments sustainably over two years. And I think that ELL made an unfair lending 
decision here and that ELL should put things right as follows : Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that the loan has been repaid. To settle Mrs Gs complaint, ELL should do the 
following:
1.Add up the total amount of money Mrs G received as a result of having been
given the loan. The repayments Mrs G made should be deducted from this amount.
As the loan has been repaid, this results in Mrs G having paid more than she received, and 
any overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the 
date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).*
2.Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file regarding the
loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give    
Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to put things right as Ive set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman