DRN-4355576
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J, who are business partners, complain that Lloyds Bank PLC is unfairly 
pursuing them for legal costs incurred when recovering the outstanding balance of a 
loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had a secured commercial loan from Lloyds. 
There was a court judgment in 2019 regarding Mr and Mrs Js loan, ordering a 
payment of £76,851.40.
Since then, Mr and Mrs J have complained that the bank have also required them to 
pay legal costs, in addition to the sum ordered by the court.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable 
of Lloyds to require Mr and Mrs J to pay the solicitors costs that arose in connection 
with the loan default, the court order and the recovery of the amounts due, for 
reasons I explain in summary below. But I thought it would be fair and reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs J to pay only half of the legal costs incurred during the pandemic 
moratorium period, which of course means the bank would meet the other half. I 
invited the parties to submit any further comments and evidence in response.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with my findings 
and submitted a number of points, which I summarise below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the bank entitled to require Mr and Mrs J to pay the solicitors fees?
Im satisfied that the loan agreements made specific provision for the payment by the 
customer of legal fees incurred in connection with the recovery of amounts owed. 
Our investigator quoted the relevant clauses of the agreements in his 
communications with the parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
A court possession order said the outstanding mortgage debt could be enforced from 
22 May 2019. But Mr and Mrs J didnt start repaying until January 2020, with the final 
payment satisfying the outstanding debt in July 2021. Over this time, the banks 
solicitors were seeking to obtain repayment as determined by the court. I think it was 
reasonable that costs would be incurred for this.
The £76,851.40 ordered by the court was, in the words of the court order, for the 
outstanding mortgage debt. Its clear to me, therefore, that the solicitors fees 
werent included in the court order. I also note that a substantial proportion of the 
solicitors fees arose for work carried out after the April 2019 court order  so the 
costs werent known at the time of the order.
Mr J says that his legal adviser has recently said that the banks solicitors confirmed 
at the court hearing that the figure awarded by the court included legal costs. But this 
isnt a written statement or agreement from the time  its a recollection, and its at 
odds with the records that Ive seen. Mr J also calculates that the court order for the 
debt would have been for £60,000 and therefore the remaining sum making it up to 
£76,851.40 must have been for legal costs. I disagree, because the court order was 
quite clear that the £76,851.40 was for the outstanding mortgage debt. I also note 
that this figure corresponded closely with the debt outstanding as shown on the loan 
statements at the time  over £75,000.
Mr J also says that he emailed Lloyds in August 2019, saying that the banks 
solicitors had confirmed that the court figure would be full and final. I havent seen 
what the solicitors said at the time, but in any event Im satisfied that the court order 
was for the outstanding mortgage debt and didnt include legal fees, and that the 
bank was entitled to require Mr and Mrs J to meet the legal costs incurred.
Im therefore satisfied that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable of the bank to require Mr 
and Mrs J to pay the solicitors fees, and Im also satisfied that those fees would be 
payable in addition to the £76,851.40 ordered by the court.
I havent seen any supporting evidence to back up Mr Js claims that a bank 
representative agreed that repayment of the sum ordered by the court would end the 
matter, or that the bank would accept £8,000 in settlement of the outstanding costs. 
Mr J says the bank representative was a senior figure, and it was a very important 
intervention. But Ive seen no contemporaneous evidence to support this, and in any 
event, the banks position regarding the legal fees was clearly expressed at the time 
by its solicitors.
Theres a disagreement between the bank and the partners over whether there was 
an offer of repayment by instalments early in 2020. Either way, I dont believe that 
matter has any material bearing on the question of whether the bank was entitled to 
pass on the legal costs resulting from pursuing repayment of the outstanding debt.
The moratorium period
The bank has said that in Mr and Mrs Js case, repossession action had already 
been suspended shortly before the general moratorium, and the solicitors costs 
resulted from pursuing repayment, rather than from any further enforcement action.
Nevertheless, I cant ignore that the moratorium was a response, at least in part, to 
the difficulties that customers found themselves in as a result of the pandemic. Many 
small businesses found trading conditions exceptionally hard. While I accept that no 
new repossession action was taken in Mr and Mrs Js case and that repayments 
werent made, I think it would be fair for the legal charges borne by the customers to reflect the special circumstances of this period. In particular, there was recognition in 
the moratorium that the pandemic was likely to prevent customers from always 
meeting their obligations. In other words, the moratorium recognised that things were 
different during this period, and I think that should be reflected here in respect of the 
pursuit of repayment. In my view, it would be fair for the legal charges generated by 
Mr and Mrs Js difficulties in this period to be shared between the parties. 
I think a fair outcome would be for Mr and Mrs J to pay only half of the legal costs 
incurred during the moratorium period, which means the bank would meet the other 
half. The period of adjustment should be from 20 March 2020, when Mr and Mrs J 
received confirmation of the banks moratorium, to the date the bank ended its 
moratorium in April 2021. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr J said that as far as he was aware, a 
moratorium means that everything is frozen in time. Again, I disagree. The bank 
suspended enforcement action, but it still sought repayment of the outstanding debt, 
as it was entitled to do, thus requiring work by the banks solicitors. 
Mr J also argues that you cannot have half a moratorium. But I dont believe that 
pursuit of repayments was subject to the moratorium agreed by the bank. In my 
view, the bank was entitled to pass on the costs to the customer  though, for 
reasons Ive given above, I believe that in this case it would be fair and reasonable 
for the legal costs to be shared between the parties during the period of the 
moratorium.
Mr J says there was very little activity by the banks solicitors during this period  he 
says he received only one email. Its not my role to scrutinise the solicitors invoices, 
but Im not persuaded by Mr Js account of events here. Ive seen copies of email 
exchanges between Mr J and the solicitors about the debt in March, June, November 
and December 2020, and February and April 2021.
Putting things right
Its clear that under the loan agreements, the bank was entitled to require Mr and 
Mrs J to meet the legal costs incurred in connection with the recovery of amounts 
owed. But in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I think it would be fair for 
the costs to Mr and Mrs J to be halved for the period of the pandemic moratorium. 
Lloyds has offered to do this to settle the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that for the most part, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable of the bank 
to require Mr and Mrs J to pay the legal fees. But I require Lloyds Bank PLC to 
charge Mr and Mrs J only one half of the legal charges incurred in the period 
between 20 March 2020 and the date the bank ended its moratorium in April 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and 
Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Colin BrownOmbudsman