DRN-3090264
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) changes to its overdraft 
pricing structure caused them financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs I complained to Lloyds after it said it was about to change its overdraft pricing 
structure. They said the extra cost would make their overdraft more difficult to repay. Lloyds 
didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mr and Mrs I were dissatisfied they referred the 
complaint to our service.
Mr and Mrs Is complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that 
Lloyds ought to have realised that Mr and Mrs I were experiencing financial difficulty by 
September 2019 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this 
point onwards. Lloyds disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr 
and Mrs Is overdraft in September 2019. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr 
and Mrs I were in no position to sustainably repay what they owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
By this point, Mr and Mrs I were hardcore borrowing. In other, words they hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Lloydss own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. So I think that Mr and Mrs Is overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to 
have realised that Mr and Mrs I werent using their overdraft as intended and shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr and Mrs Is overdraft 
usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs I ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties they already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Lloyds didnt treat Mr and Mrs I fairly and they lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
 
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Is complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Is current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after the renewal in September 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr and Mrs I to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr and 
Mrs Is credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in September 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs I along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Is credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr and Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Is complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman