Complaint
Mrs D complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called Gain 
Credit LLC, trading at the time as Lending Stream (LS). Mrs D says she was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep things simple Ill refer mainly to LS.
Background
We now know that Mrs D took out 15 instalment loans from LS between May 2018 and July 
2019. Ive enclosed a summary of Mrs Ds borrowing with LS, based on the information it 
provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan 3 onwards. LS doesnt agree with this and said it hadnt done anything 
wrong. The complaint has therefore come to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mrs Ds 
complaint.
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mrs D could 
repay all the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
LS should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
DRN-1445452There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, LS was required to establish whether 
Mrs D could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mrs D could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
LS told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to Mrs 
D. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which LS should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some point, LS 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
I think the checks which LS most likely carried out for the early loans would have been fairly 
basic ones. But bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the lending 
relationship, I think these would have been proportionate for loans 1 and 2. I think these 
levels of checks, together with the income and expenditure details provided by Mrs D 
herself, would have made those particular loans appear affordable for her. 
However, I think from the point of loan 3 onwards would have looked different and therefore 
required a more thorough and responsible approach by LS. For loan 3, for example, it should 
have noted that Mrs D hadnt yet paid back the first 2 loans so these were still outstanding 
and because of this, the overall monthly repayment increased quite a bit. A reasonable 
check would have also shown that Mrs D was indebted at the same time to at least one 
other short-term lender. Loans 4 and 5 follow a similar pattern in that she was lent money 
whilst some of her previous LS loans were outstanding as well as the borrowing elsewhere. 
Theres no evidence LS altered its approach at the point of loan 3 onwards to look more 
thoroughly at Mrs Ds financial situation. But I think if it had this it would have shown she was 
having trouble managing her money and was probably borrowing to meet normal ongoing 
commitments and those of other borrowing. In short, she was in financial difficulties. So I 
think it was irresponsible to lend to Mrs D from the point of loan 3 onwards.
In addition to the above, from the point of loan 6 onwards, there was an additional and clear 
pattern of repeated lending evident in my view. By this point shed been lent to by LS 
continually for around 6 months. So there was an obvious dependency on high-interest, 
short-term lending evidenced by this, her sixth loan in less than 5 months. So Im also 
upholding Mrs Ds complaint in respect of loans 6 -15 as well. LS repeatedly lent to Mrs D in 
an unsustainable manner because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Mrs D borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
 
Putting things right  what LS needs to dorefund all interest and charges Mrs D paid on loans 3 - 15;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges on these from 
the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 12  15* and treat any 
payments Mrs D made towards these loans as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mrs Ds loan 12  15* accounts as Ive directed results in her effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then LS should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mrs Ds loan 12  15* account(s) leaves an amount of capital still to be 
paid, then LS can use the total refund for the other upheld loans to offset this. And if 
there is still an outstanding capital balance then I would remind LS that it should take 
a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs D 
for the remaining capital.
remove any negative information about loans 3 -5 from Mrs Ds credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 -15 should be completely 
removed from Mrs Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Mrs D 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. *Loans 12  15 appear 
part - outstanding 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partly uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Gain Credit LLC should put things 
right for Mrs D as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
 
Appendix
 
Loan Taken Out Repaid (or 
amount 
o/s)Loan 
Amount
1.  11-May-
1830-Oct-18 £170
2.  09-Jul-18 21-Dec-18 £490
3.  01-Sep-18 08-Feb-19 £220
4.  31-Oct-18 06-Mar-19 £230
5.  03-Nov-18 21-Dec-18 £80
6.  30-Nov-18 08-Feb-19 £1407. 28-Dec-18 19-Mar-19 £300
8. 02-Feb-19 19-Mar-19 £160
9. 18-Mar-19 02-Jun-19 £530
10. 11-Apr-19 07-Jun-19 £240
11. 15-Apr-19 05-Jul-19 £100
12. 07-Jun-19 £67.78 £300
13. 20-Jun-19 £73.76 £150
14. 23-Jun-19 £32.92 £100
15. 05-Jul-19 £98.30 £220
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman