DRN-4011141
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) allowed her account to go 
overdrawn, even though she has a basic account that she says does not allow an overdraft 
facility.
Mrs W would like the overdrawn balance to be cleared and the overdrawn amount to also be 
paid to her as compensation. 
What happened
On 12 October 2022, Mrs W made a payment at a supermarket with her debit card. Prior to 
the transaction, Mrs W had credited £10 into her account on the same day, to ensure she 
had enough funds to cover the payment. However, later that day, Mrs W received a text 
message to say that her account had entered an unauthorised overdraft. 
Mrs W complained to HSBC, because she was under the impression that her type of 
account did not allow for her to go overdrawn. 
HSBC issued its final response letter and explained that the account had entered an 
unarranged overdraft because some debit card payments that Mrs W had previously 
authorised had been paid from her account on 12 October 2022. HSBC explained that whilst 
it takes reasonable steps to avoid Mrs Ws account from entering into an overdraft, 
sometimes it can still enter one where payments are authorised. HSBC did say however, 
that Mrs W had not been charged any interest or charges as a result of her account going 
overdrawn.
After referring her complaint to our service, one of our adjudicators assessed the complaint 
and he explained that the account had entered an unauthorised overdraft essentially 
because of delays in the debit card payments being processed. As all of the payments were 
genuine payments that Mrs W had authorised, and as Mrs W had not been charged any 
overdraft interest or charges due to the account going overdrawn, he did not uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs W disagreed and provided further evidence, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im unable to say that HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in this matter.
I have considered all of the information that has been provided and it appears that the 
reason why Mrs Ws account entered into an unauthorised overdraft on 12 October 2022, is 
because Mrs W had made a number of debit card payments to a merchant earlier on in 
October. Mrs W has provided order dispatched emails from the merchant, which were 
dated  8 October 2022 and 11 October 2022, and it seems that there was a delay between 
the debit card payments being authorised by Mrs W and the money for the transactions 
being taken from her account. 
I appreciate that it mayve come as a shock to Mrs W, when she received a text message on 
12 October 2022 to say her account had gone overdrawn. But ultimately, the money taken 
from her account was for debit card payments she had authorised. And looking at Mrs Ws 
bank statements, it seems to be the case that Mrs W had not arranged for there to be 
enough funds in her account to cover all of the payments (alongside the other debit card 
payments she was making elsewhere), on the day that they were taken from her account.
It seems the main issue that Mrs W has, is that she didnt think that her account could go 
overdrawn, as it is a basic account. Looking through HSBCs personal banking terms and 
conditions, it says that an arranged overdraft i.e. pre-agreed limit, is not available with a 
Basic account. But it also says that:
With a Basic Bank Account, we take reasonable steps to stop your account going 
into unarranged overdraft. Sometimes this might happen, but if it does we wont 
charge you any interest or charges.
So going by the terms and conditions of the account, it does seem that the Basic account 
can, on occasion, still enter an unarranged overdraft. However, given that Mrs W has not 
been charged any interest or charges for going overdrawn, I cant say that she has lost out 
financially because HSBC allowed the debit card payments in question to be taken from her 
account. 
As such, in the circumstances, Im unable to say that HSBC has done anything wrong. And 
given that the account only entered into an unarranged overdraft due to payments that Mrs 
W had authorised, I see no reason why HSBC should pay Mrs W compensation in the 
circumstances.
Finally, if it is the case that Mrs W is experiencing financial difficulties, I would urge Mrs W to 
contact HSBC about this. HSBC has said that its Financial Guidance team can provide 
support if Mrs W needs it. More information can be found at www.hsbc.co.uk/help/money-
worries/.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman