DRN-2161015
The complaint
Ms W complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) handled her subsidence claim 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are not in dispute, so Ill only summarise them briefly.
In July 2018 Ms W contacted Zurich as she was concerned about cracks shed seen in her 
house and was worried they might be as a result of subsidence. 
Zurich appointed contractors and they initially thought that a nearby tree was the cause of 
the subsidence but on further investigation established it was caused by a consolidation of 
weak underlying soil. Zurich accepted the claim in August 2018 and works to rectify the 
subsidence commenced in November 2018.  
A previous complaint had been raised and this complaint follows from it and covers points 
since 24 May 2019. Ms W has also advised that further cracking has appeared which shes 
raised with Zurich. This service should be able to consider this latest complaint if she isnt 
satisfied with Zurichs answer and brings it to us. 
A revised schedule of works had been drawn up in April 2019 and these works commenced 
in June 2019. Work to the bay window was completed in July 2019, so it remained boarded 
up until then. 
Ms W tells us there were a number of snagging issues and these werent addressed until 
late August 2019. She felt Zurichs communication with her was poor, and that 
correspondence wasnt acknowledged or acted upon.
A damaged drain had been exposed whilst digging a trench to facilitate resin injections to a 
bay window.  The drain was covered over but shouldve been left uncovered allowing the 
local water authority to inspect it. Ms W says she was advised that work to uncover the drain 
would be completed in May 2019, but this didnt happen and the drain remained covered in 
November 2019.  
Ms W was also unhappy that a premium increase had been applied to her policy whilst her 
claim was still being dealt with.
Zurich have accepted that it didnt acknowledge correspondence from Ms W, and took too 
long to deal with issues around the drain being covered. It offered £600 to say sorry for the 
additional delays since the previous complaint.
Ms W remained dissatisfied and didnt accept this offer and brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator agreed there had been failings throughout the claim and that Ms W had 
been inconvenienced more than she shouldve been for a claim of this nature. But felt the 
£600 offer that Zurich had made was fair.
The investigator also advised Ms W that we dont regulate insurance pricing, or tell an 
insurer how much to charge, but we do expect them to treat customer fairly when calculating 
premiums. She reviewed the calculations and was satisfied they had been done correctly 
and Zurich hadnt acted unfairly.
Ms W feels that the overall compensation payment should be in the region of £17,000. As 
Ms W is unhappy with the investigators view the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only considering issues from 24 May 2019 to 21 November 2019. The 
complaint issues brought to this service prior to this date have been dealt with in a separate 
decision. Since bringing these complaints to us Ms W has expressed concerns over the 
application and efficacy of resin injections used to stabilise the bay window and has reported 
further cracking to Zurich. Zurich should consider this complaint separately. 
When I refer to Zurich I include its contractors and agents.
Ms W has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint. Ive considered these 
and have looked at everything shes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So 
if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence it isnt because Ive not seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel its necessary to reference it to explain my decision. 
I hope Ms W doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service.
Subsidence claims inevitably bring about a degree of disruption and inconvenience, and Ive 
seen that Ms W acknowledges this. But this claim didnt progress as it should despite Ms W 
having already raised a complaint. Im satisfied mistakes made by Zurich have impacted on 
Ms Ws day to day life for longer than was necessary. 
There were delays and poor communication in resolving the uncovering the drain, and Im 
satisfied this could have been resolved sooner. Im also satisfied that the work to the bay 
window took longer than it should have, and whilst this delay was for a shorter period it had 
an impact on Ms W. And I find the communication from Zurich couldve been better and 
caused frustration and delays.
Ive also seen that Ms W was concerned that she hadnt been provided with a certificate of 
structural adequacy and Zurich have confirmed it will be provided at the end of the claim.
Im mindful that Ms W is retired and spends a considerable amount of time at home. She 
effectively lost the use of her sitting room and had to move upstairs whilst remedial repairs 
were carried out. There was a loss of light to her home for the extended period her bay 
window was boarded up, and she wasnt able to enjoy her garden to the extent she usually 
does. And a milestone birthday celebration was impacted. 
Ive noted Zurich have agreed there were communication failings and said sorry for the 
additional delays under this complaint and offered £600 compensation. 
Having considered all the evidence, I agree with our investigators view and find that £600 is 
a fair and reasonable award in the circumstances of this case. So I wont be asking Zurich to 
do anymore.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman