DRN-3977425
The complaint
Mr W complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) declining 
claims under his pet insurance policy for treatment of his cat.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy
What happened
In November 2021 Mr Ws cat began behaving oddly, including urinating in incorrect places. 
The vet prescribed medication, but the symptoms occurred again the following month and 
blood tests were requested, along with a urine culture test. The symptoms then went away. 
The condition occurred again in January 2022 and a blocked bladder (urolithiasis) with large 
amount of struvite stones was diagnosed.  Mr W subsequently made a claim for the cost of 
treatment in between December 2021 and January 2022 (£1,395.23). An initial claim for 
£238.49 was previously submitted for the initial inappropriate urination.
However, CG said they wouldnt accept the claims, as they thought the issue was the result 
of a behavioural condition, which wouldnt be covered under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. The vet who treated the cat said the issue was the result of a medical condition and 
not a behavioural condition. However, CG confirmed their decision to decline the claims.
Mr W then complained to CG, but they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response 
they said when Mr W took out his policy in July 2021, the terms and conditions made it clear 
behavioural conditions wouldnt be covered. CG referred to information in the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) and the Policy Definitions and Veterinary Fees 
sections of the policy. On the blocked bladder, CG said [male] cats were at risk of 
developing a urinary blockage when suffering from urinary issues, so the cats inappropriate 
urination led to the blocked bladder. So, CG confirmed their decline of the claims (under the 
behavioural conditions exclusion).
Mr W then complained to this service, unhappy at his claims being declined. He said his 
vets opinion was the issue was caused by a medical condition and not a behavioural 
condition. Hed been affected financially by having to pay for the cost of treatment and 
suffered distress from CGs decline of the claims and the time taken for CG to deal with the 
complaint (and the unprofessional way he thought CG had handled the complaint). He 
wanted CG to cover the cost of treatment and reimburse him.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly. He was more 
persuaded by the opinion of Mr Ws vet that the urinary blockage wasnt a behavioural 
condition. He wasnt persuaded by CGs view that the proximate cause of the condition was 
likely to have been due to the cats previous behaviour-related cystitis (and that [male] cats 
who suffer from cystitis are at a significant risk of urinary blockage). As Mr Ws vet was a 
qualified practitioner and had examined the cat, the investigator thought their view more 
persuasive. To put things right, the investigator thought CG should pay the claims in line with 
the policy. If Mr W had paid the vets bill, CG should also pay interest from the date the bill 
was paid to the date they settled the claims.
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they said theyd referred the case to their vet specialist. They said 
stress-related cystitis could cause the bladder to block. The clinical history of the cat 
indicated it was stressed due to family members of Mr W moving into his house, leading to 
the cats inappropriate urinating. Mr W had declined to have the cat take a urine sample, 
which would have determined whether the issues were due to an infection, or stress related. 
Mr Ws vet subsequently didnt find any evidence of an infection, advising the issues were 
likely due to stress. The cat then presented with a blocked bladder, which CGs vet thought 
likely due to the prolonged stress episodes, causing the bladder to become infected again, 
leading to the blockage. The vet said Mr Ws family members moving into his house caused 
the cat a great deal of stress (and was evident in the clinical history) which caused the 
blocked bladder and would be considered a behavioural issue (and therefore wouldnt be 
covered under the behavioural condition exclusion).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mr W. 
The key issue in Mr Ws complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining his claims for 
treatment of his cat. CGs view is that they correctly declined the claims, on the grounds the 
cats issues were the result of stress, and therefore a behavioural condition. As, such they 
werent covered under the policy as there was an exclusion for behavioural conditions. They 
cite their vet specialists opinion, drawing on the cats clinical history. Mr Ws view, supported 
by his vets opinion, is that the issues were caused by a medical condition  not a 
behavioural condition. So, CG unfairly declined his claims.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the supporting 
information and evidence, including Mr Ws vets opinion, the views of CGs specialist vet 
and the clinical history of Mr Ws cat. Regarding the terms and conditions of the policy, in 
their final response, CG refer to the following statement in the IPID:
What is not insured?
Any claim for the Treatment of Behavioural Issues or Aggression
Similar wording appears under the Veterinary Fees heading, where theres a sub-heading 
What is not insured? Which states:
Any claim relating to Behavioural Issues. The costs for any diagnosis and 
investigations into the cause of Behavioural Issues are also excluded
CG refer to the Policy Definitions which state Behavioural Issues means:
a change in the normal, everyday behaviour of Your pet caused by a medical, 
mental or emotional ailment.
These terms and conditions are clear that behavioural issues arent covered. So, Ive then 
considered the question of whether the issues with the cat (inappropriate urination and then 
a blocked bladder) could reasonably have been caused by behavioural issues. In doing so, 
Ive considered carefully what Mr Ws vet and CGs vet specialist have said, together with the clinical notes. CGs vet specialists views are summarised above. Mr Ws vet provided 
the following opinion, following decline of the second claim:
[the cat] had a blocked bladder which is a potential fatal medical condition and not 
a behavioural condition.
Looking at the clinical notes from Mr Ws vet there are references (December 2021) to the 
cats condition, including:
informed owner that [the cats] condition can be due to stress/cystitis.
stress/behavioural problem that seems [now] that since owners son and girlfriend 
have moved into garden-house. [The cat] will be back to his routine.
And the following references in January 2022:
was treated for blocked bladder
Differential Diagnosis  urolithiasis, Struvite seen last night
Ive considered the clinical notes carefully, particularly the above references. There is 
reference to the cats condition can be due to stress/cystitis (my emphasis). But theres no 
clear mention of stress in the notes in January 2022. Looking at publicly available articles on 
the differential diagnosis of urolithiasis (Struvite) the most commonly cited cause is urinary 
tract infection, attributed to a variety of possible causes. But none refer to stress.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, that onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points above, while stress could 
(can) be the cause, Im not persuaded by CGs view. And the vet who examined and treated 
the cat has given a clear opinion the issues were the result of a medical condition, not a 
behavioural condition.
Taking all these points into account, Im not persuaded CG have shown enough to apply the 
exclusion for behavioural issues in the circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded CG 
acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to decline Mr Ws claims.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for behavioural issues, they should settle the 
claims in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on 
the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If CG settle the claims, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount 
accepted, from the date Mr W paid the vet bills, to the date they settle the claims. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Mr Ws claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd settle the claims, they should also 
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount settled, from the date Mr W paid the vet 
bills to the date they settle the claims.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman