DRN-2825790
The complaint
E complains about the decision of American International Group UK Limited not to meet Es 
potential business interruption insurance claim, arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
E operates as a pub and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by 
American International Group UK Limited (AIG). The policy provided a number of areas of 
cover, including for business interruption. In March 2020, E asked AIG whether it would be 
able to claim for losses due to the pandemic. 
AIG said that the policy would not cover Es losses in the circumstances. E was unhappy 
with this and complained. Throughout the course of the complaint, both parties have 
exchanged numerous letters, setting out their arguments and responses to these. I have 
read all those than have been submitted to this service, but I have not set them out in detail 
here. 
Effectively, AIGs position is that the parts of the business interruption section of the policy 
that require damage do not respond, as COVID-19 and the Governments response to this 
hasnt caused damage that has led to E being interrupted. AIG say the policy does provide 
cover in relation to business interruption as a result of disease. But the relevant term is 
contained within a policy endorsement document, that E was provided, and limits the cover 
to a specified list of diseases. AIG also do not consider that the Defective Sanitation 
extension applies to the Governments actions in relation to COVID-19, and that the Bomb 
Hoax, Bomb Scare extension is a narrow, localised form of cover that does not relate to a 
nationwide situation. 
Our Investigator, largely speaking, agreed with AIGs position. And he felt it had acted fairly 
and reasonably when saying the policy wouldnt cover Es claim. E disagrees and this 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to apologise for the time taken to reach this stage and to thank E, and its 
directors, for their patience. I am also sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact 
COVID-19 restrictions have had on E. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. 
I understand that E closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy E took out.
Damage
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Es policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to the insureds contents or buildings, or to other 
property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19 caused damage to property which has led to an interruption of Es business.
I note Es comments that the policy does not say the damage needs to be material 
damage. But it does require the damage be to physical things  Es building or contents, or 
the property of others. And I dont think the temporary loss of use of its premises constitutes 
damage to E. I think that for loss of use to be considered damage, it would need to be 
something more than temporary and that there be some uncertainty over recovery. So, 
whilst E may not have been able to use its premises, and this may have led to a loss of 
revenue, I dont consider this to be damage as defined by the policy.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Es claim. And I think AIG 
acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Es claim under this area of cover.
Notifiable Disease
Es policy contains an extension to the business interruption section relating to disease. The 
wording in the policy document itself has been amended by an endorsement. But as the 
policy document makes clear, any endorsements are incorporated into and form part of the 
policy. 
Following the endorsement, the extension provides cover for:
An outbreak of any Notifiable Disease occurring at the Premises or which is 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises, or occurring within twenty 
five miles of the Premises, which by reason of the abnormal number of cases causes 
prospective guests to refrain from making bookings for accommodation, or gives 
legal grounds for guests to cancel bookings for accommodation already made.
Italicised words are defined, and the definition of Notifiable Disease is a list of specified 
illnesses. 
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided E with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for AIG to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
AIG intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. AIG deliberately 
chose to define Notifiable Disease by reference to a static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.I note Es comments that the policy should have made it clear that diseases identified after 
the policy was taken out werent included in the cover. But I dont think this was necessary. 
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all diseases 
that the Government adds to its own list of notifiable diseases. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy E has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy E has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of Notifiable Disease in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above, whether they are 
diseases that existed at the time the policy was entered or not.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Es claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Es policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied AIGs decision to inform R the claim would 
not be covered was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
Bomb Hoax, Bomb Scare
This extension provides cover for:
Any action by the Police or local, civil or military authority following a danger or 
disturbance in the vicinity of the Premises whereby access is prevented
When coming to my decision on this complaint, I am required to take into account, amongst 
other things, the relevant law. And this includes relevant case law. The FCA Test Case (The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 
(Comm)). As has been set out by AIG and the Investigator, as part of this case, the court 
considered the meaning of terms similar to that above. 
Both have quoted from paragraphs 436 and 437 of this judgment. I also consider these 
paragraphs relevant to Es complaint, but as E has already been quoted them, I will not 
repeat them myself. Effectively, the court found that the actions of the Government in 
responding to a national pandemic cannot be said to have been taken due to a danger or 
disturbance in the vicinity of any particular premises. This outcome was not appealed, and 
as such represent the current legal position on those terms considered in the case. Given 
the terms considered were similar to that above, I see no reason not to apply this finding to 
the current case. 
I note that E has said that there were occurrences of COVID-19 within the vicinity of its 
premises. But it has not demonstrated that it was the risk of COVID-19 in this vicinity, as 
opposed to in the country as a whole, which led to the action of the Government. 
Based on the above findings of the court in the FCA test case, I consider AIG acted fairly 
and reasonably when saying this extension didnt cover the circumstances of Es business 
interruption. 
Defective Sanitation
The last extension that is potentially relevant to Es claim provides cover for:Closure in whole or in part of the Premises by a local authority because of defects in 
the drains or other sanitary arrangements.
I consider that this extension requires there to have been a defect in relevant sanitary 
arrangements, and that it is this defect that has led to the action of the relevant authority. 
The term other sanitary arrangements is not defined by the policy. But its meaning needs 
to be construed, in part, by the context given by the policy. It also needs to be interpreted as 
it would have been understood, by a reasonable person with the background knowledge of 
the parties to the contract, at the time the contract was entered. E entered the contract of 
insurance in September 2019. 
E has argued that the closure of its premises, resulting from the restrictions introduced by 
the Government, was due to other sanitary arrangements. And has said that this should be 
interpreted as general health and hygiene issues. E has also provided a quote referring to 
the crowded indoor setting that is found in a pub. 
So, I need to consider whether a reasonable person, in September 2019, would have 
considered this term to refer to the ability to ensure that appropriate social distancing was 
maintained. And, if so, whether there was a defect in Es sanitary arrangements that meant 
this couldnt be ensured.
Es policy was entered in September 2019, a number of months before COVID-19 existed. 
And, whilst social distancing has been practiced throughout history as a means of preventing 
the spread of disease, until recently, it was not in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a 
reasonable person reading the particular wording of Es policy in September 2019 would 
have considered this term to refer to an inability to enforce social distancing. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what E considers the defect in its sanitary arrangements to be. I 
consider a defect inherently involves some element of deficiency or fault. E is a pub and no 
evidence has been provided to suggest there was any deficiency or fault in its sanitary 
arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a 
defect.
I also havent been provided with any evidence to suggest it was the circumstances relating 
to Es sanitary arrangements in particular that led to the Governments decision to introduce 
the restrictions it did in March 2020.
I also note the term refers to the actions of a local authority. Yet the restrictions that E has 
sought to rely upon were those introduced by the national Government. It may be that the 
Government does not fall within the meaning of local authority as it relates to this policy. I 
have not made a finding on this point, as I do not consider the other parts of the extension to 
have been met in the circumstances. 
For the reasons above, I consider AIGs decision to not to meet Es potential claim under this 
extension was fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means AIG should have met Es claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for E and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman