DRN-4109049
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid their travel insurance 
claim relating to a medical emergency while they were on holiday. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A held a travel insurance policy provided by AWP. Unfortunately, on the final day 
of their UK holiday, Mrs A became ill and was admitted to hospital. 
Mr A travelled home as planned and notified AWP about the situation. Mrs A remained in 
hospital overnight and was collected by her and Mr As daughter the following day, making a 
total round trip of over 800 miles. While enroute home, Mrs A was contacted by the hospital 
and told to return. Due to the distance Mrs A had already travelled at this point, she instead 
went to a local hospital where she was admitted for around seven weeks. 
Mr and Mrs A made a claim with AWP for the travel costs incurred by their daughter, as well 
as for hospital benefit payment. Mr and Mrs A also complained about the level of assistance 
provided to them by AWP. When Mr and Mrs A received no response from AWP, they 
brought their complaint to the attention of our service. 
In December 2022, AWP offered to pay £150 compensation for the level of customer service 
it had provided. But AWP still hasnt paid Mr and Mrs As claim and hasnt explained why.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and recommended that AWP 
should pay Mr and Mrs As claim for travel costs. She also said AWP should pay Mrs A 
hospital benefit taking into account the duration of her entire hospital stay. Our investigator 
said she thought AWPs offer of £150 compensation was fair and reasonable for its delays in 
assessing Mr and Mrs As claim. 
AWP didnt respond to our investigators opinion. Mr A said he was seeking additional 
compensation. As no resolution was reached, the complaint has been referred to me as the 
final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also 
say insurers must provide appropriate information to a policyholder on the progress of a 
claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my final decision and I dont think 
AWP handled Mr and Mrs As claim in the way Id have expected it to. 
AWP never communicated with Mr and Mrs A about the outcome of their claim. AWPs claim 
notes indicate that AWP thought the claim wasnt covered because Mr and Mrs A were on a 
UK holiday when the medical emergency occurred. This isnt correct. 
Mr and Mrs As policy quite clearly covers reasonable extra transport costs of up to £1,500 
which are medically necessary during UK journeys. This includes the costs of another 
person who stays or travels with the policyholder  which Mr and Mrs As daughter did. Im 
satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, that the travel costs being claimed for were 
medically necessary. Mr A says all the relevant medical reports were sent to AWP and Ive 
seen a completed consent form for the release of medical information dated August 2022. 
So, Im satisfied that AWP has had a reasonable opportunity to carry out investigations into 
Mr and Mrs As claim. And the travel costs being claimed for are, in my opinion, reasonable. 
I think the fair outcome in the circumstances is for this element of Mr and Mrs As claim to 
now be paid, together with interest. 
Mr and Mrs As policy also quite clearly provides for the payment of a hospital benefit in the 
event of a hospital admission during a UK journey. So, AWP also has an obligation to pay 
this part of Mr and Mrs As claim, together with interest. Like our investigator, I think it would 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for AWP to take the total duration of Mrs As 
hospital stay into account when calculating this element of the claim settlement. Ive seen 
medical evidence which shows Mrs A required further assessment and readmission to 
hospital and Im satisfied that Mrs A would, were it not for the distance shed already 
travelled when she was contacted by the original hospital, have been readmitted back to the 
same medical facility on the same day that she was discharged. 
Turning to the level of compensation which I think is appropriate in this case, I have no doubt 
that Mr and Mrs A experienced annoyance and frustration because of how AWP handled the 
matter. Ive considered the lack of advice and assistance provided to Mr A when he first 
contacted AWP about the claim, the lack of any correspondence from AWP about the 
outcome of Mr and Mrs As claim and the length of AWPs delays. I also understand Mr A 
says he spent time on hold while trying to contact AWP on the telephone and didnt receive 
any meaningful responses from AWP to his emails. However, I have no power to seek to 
punish or fine a business through an award of compensation and, having taken into account 
all the circumstances of this case as well as our published guidance on compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, Im satisfied that a payment of £150 fairly compensates Mr and 
Mrs A for the impact of AWPs actions on them. 
Putting things right
AWP P&C SA needs to put things right and do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs As claim for travel costs and hospital benefit, subject to any 
applicable policy excesses and/or policy limits;
add interest to the claim settlement at 8% simple per annum from the date the claim 
was notified to AWP until the date the settlement is paid1;
pay Mr and Mrs A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced. 
AWP P&C SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr 
and Mrs A accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
1 If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs A how much it has taken off. If should also give Mr and Mrs A a 
tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and I direct AWP P&C SA to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman