DRN-2873166
The complaint
Ms T complains that esure Insurance Limited rejected her claim to cover the repair cost of a 
collapsed wall. She believes the collapse resulted from storm conditions and should be 
covered under the terms of the home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Ms T reported the collapse of a section of an external boundary wall to 
esure. She expected the costs of repairs to be covered under her home insurance policy. 
The company arranged for a surveyor to visit her property and assess whether the claim 
could be accepted under the agreed terms. 
There was an initial delay in the surveyor attending. An alternative surveyor was appointed 
to assess the damage because of this delay. The surveyor reported that the claim should not 
be accepted as the damage was the result of a natural breakdown of materials. It says the 
gradual deterioration of the wall over time caused it to collapse, not the storm conditions.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He explained that the evidence 
showed the wall was in a poor condition prior to its collapse. And that gradual wear and tear, 
over time, was the most likely cause of this. The investigator explained that the policy covers 
sudden or unexpected events. And that gradual deterioration over time is not something that 
was covered as an insured event under the policy terms. He did not accept that storm 
damage was the cause of the collapsed wall.  
The investigator did accept there was a delay with the surveyor visiting the property. And felt 
the £75 payment Ms T received from esure was adequate to acknowledge this delay in 
responding to the claim. 
Ms T disagreed with the investigators decision. She said that although the wall was not new 
it has been in very good condition. She maintains that it would not have collapsed if not for 
the severe stormy weather and asked for a review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this wont be the outcome Ms T was hoping for, but I shall not be upholding her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms Ts policy booklet confirms that storm damage is an insurable event and therefore 
covered by the policy. 
However, page 31 of the booklet also includes a section on general exclusions. This states:
loss or damage as a result of the lack of maintenance, loss of value over time; or loss or 
damage that happens gradually over time (for example, loss or damage as a result of wet rot 
or dry rot, or loss resulting from wet rot or dry rot, rusting, corrosion, the affects of light or the 
atmosphere, damp, condensation, fading, moths, vermin, birds, insects, fungi or other 
gradual deterioration).
The exclusions are clearly set out and confirm that a lack of maintenance, and gradual 
damage, form part of the reasons a claim will not be accepted.  
In the report for esure the surveyor says The stone has collapsed. The wall is in a poor 
condition, the wall has collapsed previously. The mortar placed in the wall and the stones 
are wearing thin. This is causing bows to the wall in various areas.
I have reviewed the photographs and opinion provided by the surveyor. The wall is clearly 
very old, and there is evidence of bowing and general deterioration in the parts that have not 
collapsed. The surveyor concluded that the cause of the wall collapsing was gradual 
deterioration over time. Based on the information presented this is a convincing argument. 
I sympathise with Ms Ts situation. However, the terms of the policy specifically exclude 
damage resulting from gradual deterioration. I accept that there was a period of wet and 
windy weather prior to the collapse of the wall. However, had the wall been in good 
condition, it is unlikely that the collapse would have happened. 
esure says the collapse of the wall happened because it was in a poor condition, and in 
need of repair or replacement. I agree that this is a reasonable conclusion in the 
circumstances. In my view esure acted reasonably when it declined Ms Ts claim. 
I note Ms Ts concerns that a survey of the property/wall was not completed prior to the 
policy agreement. However, it is not generally the case that an insurer will arrange for a 
survey of a property before offering cover. The policy documents do make clear that Ms T 
should familiarise herself with the terms and exclusions. The policy is intended to pay out for 
sudden or unexpected insured events. As discussed above, this does not include situations 
where there has been a lack of maintenance or gradual deterioration of the property insured. 
I accept there was a delay in esure assessing Ms Ts claim. esure has acknowledged its 
handling of the claim could have been better and offered £75 as compensation for this. In 
the circumstances described I think this is reasonable.   
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint and so I dont require esure Insurance Limited to do 
anything further regarding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman