DRN-4298724
The complaint
R, a limited company complains about the way that HSBC UK Bank Plc handled a foreign 
currency transfer.
R wants HSBC to refund a charge which it says has been incorrectly applied.
As R is in liquidation, it is represented in its complaint by the liquidator, Mr F as well as a 
director of R, Mr D.  
What happened
In October 2022, R wanted to transfer money from its HSBC Australian Dollar (AUD) 
account to its HSBC pound sterling (GBP) account. 
Mr D said that he made the first transfer attempt online but then couldnt see a pending 
transaction so he called HSBC. Mr D says HSBC told him that it wasnt possible to make the 
transfer online so he used the telephone banking service. Mr D says that at no point did 
HSBC tell him the first transfer was pending or that there were insufficient funds in Rs AUD 
account.
It took a few days for the transfer to appear in Rs GBP account. Mr D then received a 
message from HSBC to say that Rs GBP account was overdrawn. Mr D discovered that a 
charge had been applied to Rs GBP account as the foreign exchange had been double-
booked. When Mr D went to an HSBC branch, he was told there had been a mistake and 
that the charge would be reversed. 
After HSBC considered Rs complaint, it said that when Mr D spoke to HSBC, he didnt make 
it aware that hed already transferred the money online. HSBC said there was a foreign 
exchange loss after the second attempt was reversed.
HSBC apologised that someone in branch told Mr D that it had made a mistake when it 
hadnt. HSBC credited Rs account with £70 to say sorry.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Rs complaint be upheld. He explained the evidence 
from HSBC showed that Mr D completed two transactions online and that it was the second 
online transaction which caused the foreign exchange loss. Our investigator said that Mr D 
contacted HSBC after the second transfer to say that it wasnt showing as pending. 
Our investigator said HSBC then gave Mr D incorrect advice over the phone which led to a 
third attempt to transfer the money. But that this attempt was rejected so isnt the reason for 
the dispute. Our investigator thought HSBCs payment of £70 for any inconvenience caused 
by the third attempt was fair.
Mr F on behalf of R wasnt happy with the investigation outcome. He asked why, if HSBC 
says the second online transfer was an attempt, did it incur a loss. Mr F wanted to know why 
HSBCs online system didnt show the first online transfer was pending and that there were 
insufficient funds to complete the transfer. Mr F asked how such a large foreign exchange 
loss could have happened given there were only minutes between the first and second 
online transfer.
Mr F was unhappy that HSBC has given conflicting information along the way. He wanted to 
know why R wasnt made aware of the charge before proceeding with the transfer.
Our investigator went back to Mr F on the points that he had made. In summary, our 
investigator explained:
once a customer makes a payment online, the foreign exchange rate would be 
booked. The first transfer debited AUD 234,000 at 1.817091 and the second transfer 
debited AUD 234,470 at 1.816111. 
the second payment didnt go through due to insufficient funds but still had to be 
unwound so there was a foreign exchange loss. 
 theres always a difference between buy and sell rates. 
he wouldnt expect to see a foreign exchange rate in the list of charges as the rate 
can move with the market.
HSBCs foreign currency accounts dont show balances or transactions in real time
HSBC display information about when to expect to see a completed transaction. So, 
our investigator thought it reasonable for Mr D to have checked the balance before 
making the second transfer. 
Overall, our investigator agreed the level of service provided by HSBC could have been 
better. He thought £70 was fair compensation as the foreign exchange loss wasnt due to a 
mistake made by HSBC.
Mr F thanked our investigator but questioned how the charge had been calculated given the 
difference in exchange rate should equate to less than £100 rather than over £4,700.
Mr F says that Mr D did check Rs activity history after the first transfer and the transfer 
wasnt shown as pending.
Mr F says HSBC didnt make it clear that there might be a foreign exchange reversal charge 
and he queries how it is still reasonable for HSBC to levy the charge given the mistakes 
made when responding to Rs complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that I have summarised Rs complaint in less detail than the parties, and Ive done 
so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me. 
As I could see that Mr F was concerned about how HSBC had calculated the charge, I asked 
our investigator to go back for clarification. Having done so, we shared the information with 
Mr F but have not had a reply. 
I appreciate there have been inconsistencies in the way that HSBC has explained the loss and I agree this must have been frustrating. However, Im satisfied that HSBC has now 
correctly explained the foreign exchange loss. 
When Mr D made the second online transfer, the booking was made to debit AUD 
324,470.01 at the rate of 1.816111. When this transaction was cancelled, the reversal rate 
booked was 1.7701, so the loss is the difference between the two exchange rates. 
This isnt a charge as such  it is simply the difference between the exchange rates used for 
the transfer and reversal. HSBCs business banking terms say that if there are insufficient 
funds to make the payment or the customer cancels the payment before HSBC debits the 
account, the customer will have to reimburse HSBC for any exchange rate losses that it 
incurs.  The terms also say that if HSBC cant make a payment, it will convert the payment 
back to the original currency using the exchange rate at the time which may mean that the 
amount returned will be less than the original amount of the payment. So, I dont find that 
HSBC acted unreasonably by requiring R to reimburse the exchange loss incurred.
The evidence provided by HSBC confirms that Mr D made two online transfers on 26 
October 2022 just over 12 minutes apart. Its unfortunate that this happened but Im not 
persuaded that the duplication was HSBCs fault. As it has explained, foreign currency 
accounts dont show balances or transactions in real time and the transfer was booked for 
the next day. As far as I am aware, Mr D would have seen a message confirming the first 
transfer was booked, so its difficult to see why he would have gone on to try and effect a 
second transfer so quickly after making the first. Although Mr F says that Mr D did review Rs 
balance and recent transactions after the first online transaction, I dont think this changes 
the fact that he should have also seen a message confirming the transfer was booked with a 
time estimate of when it would complete. So, I think it would have been reasonable to expect 
Mr D to wait until the estimated time period expired. 
Although HSBC may have given Mr D some incorrect information which led to a third attempt 
to transfer money using the telephone banking service, this didnt impact the foreign 
exchange loss which had already taken place after the second online transfer. At the point of 
making the second online transfer, I cant see that HSBC had intervened so I cant hold it 
responsible for the loss.
I also note that during the call when the third transfer attempt was made, although Mr D 
refers to difficulties the day before, he didnt actually say that hed already made two 
attempts to transfer the money online. This means HSBC doesnt appear to have been 
aware of the attempts before making the third transfer attempt during the call. So, although 
inconvenient to R, I dont find that HSBCs misinformation warrants an award of additional 
compensation over the £70 already paid. 
I fully understand Mr Fs frustration with the handling of the transfers and complaints 
process. But the Financial Ombudsman isnt the regulator of HSBC  that is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. So, I cant penalise HSBC for the perceived lack of 
understanding of its internal systems or the way it handled Rs complaint. 
Overall, I dont find that HSBC made a mistake which caused a loss to R, so I dont require it 
to refund any money. Im sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mr F and Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider HSBC UK 
Bank Plc has already done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman