DRN-3688485
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way BUPA Insurance Limited has handled a claim they 
made on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I havent set them out in 
detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs M hold a personal private medical insurance policy, which also provides cover 
for their children, including Ms M.
In June 2021, Mr and Mrs M contacted BUPA, as they were concerned about Ms Ms mental 
health. They obtained a GPs referral and in July 2021, BUPA confirmed Ms M would be 
eligible to make a claim for her condition. BUPA sent Mr and Mrs M a list of its approved 
psychiatrists so that an appointment could be made for Ms M.
Subsequently, in September 2021, Mrs M got back in touch with BUPA. She said she hadnt 
been able to obtain an appointment with one of BUPAs recognised providers and so shed 
taken Ms M to see a specialist who wasnt recognised by BUPA. That specialist had referred 
Ms M to a psychologist. BUPA told Mrs M that the psychologist Ms M had been referred to 
wasnt on its list of recognised providers. 
In December 2021, Mrs M complained to BUPA. She said that the psychiatrists it had 
previously given her details of either had no availability or didnt have the relevant skills or 
experience to treat Ms M. She asked for a further list of psychiatrists and explained that 
shed booked an appointment with a psychiatrist who wasnt recognised by BUPA for later 
that month. But she said shed cancel the appointment if BUPA provided her with a new, 
extensive list of names. However, BUPA didnt respond to Mrs M or provide her with a list, 
despite a follow-up email. So Ms M saw the non-BUPA recognised psychiatrist in late 
December 2021.
BUPA responded to Mrs Ms concerns, but Mr and Mrs M didnt think its response had 
addressed their complaint. So BUPA reconsidered the matter. It said that it couldnt give 
provider recommendations, it could only provide lists of recognised professionals. It 
considered it had done so at the outset ahead of Ms M initially undergoing treatment with a 
psychiatrist and psychotherapist who it didnt recognise. But it acknowledged that it hadnt 
responded to Mrs Ms request for a further list of providers in December 2021. So it 
reimbursed Mr and Mrs M for the cost of the psychiatrists appointment which had taken 
place in December 2021 and paid them £200 compensation for its poor service.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy with BUPAs handling of this claim and so they asked us to 
look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought BUPA had already resolved this complaint fairly. He thought the 
policy terms made it clear that BUPA would only pay for treatment from a recognised 
practitioner. He felt that BUPA had provided Mrs M with a list of practitioners and had made 
it clear that it wouldnt cover the costs of non-recognised specialists. He wasnt persuaded 
that the list of recognised specialists BUPA had sent Mrs M was inadequate or couldnt 
provide the treatment Ms M needed. He felt BUPA had suggested that Mrs M should call 
back if the list of practitioners hadnt been suitable, but that Mr and Mrs M had already 
sought treatment elsewhere. And while he accepted BUPA hadnt responded to Mrs Ms 
request for a new list in December 2021, he felt it had already paid fair compensation for this 
mistake.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed, and Ive summarised their responses to our investigator:
There had been two separate specialists involved  a psychologist and psychiatrist. 
The investigator had conflated these and didnt recognise that the request for both 
specialists had been handled poorly;
Theyd had no choice but to try and protect Ms Ms mental health. BUPA had made a 
one-off payment, but it didnt reflect the ongoing costs theyd incurred with the 
psychiatrist. Neither did BUPA recognise the material risk to Ms Ms life if she had 
had to change psychiatrist;
BUPA didnt appear to recognise that there was a mental-health crisis and that 
specialists had been impossible to access. They felt it had had little regard for the 
urgency of Ms Ms situation. They considered the investigator had expected them to 
wait it out, which couldve caused a catastrophic risk to Ms M. 
BUPA didnt deny that Ms M needed treatment. Her psychiatrist was highly qualified. 
So its refusal to cover the psychiatrists costs seemed obtuse and they felt BUPA had 
failed in its duties of care and of treating customers fairly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I note Mr and Mrs M have referred to delays 
theyve experienced in obtaining family therapy. Its important I make clear that this decision 
will only consider the issues which BUPA considered in its final response letters of January 
and February 2022. Thats because BUPA hasnt had a chance to look into any concerns Mr 
and Mrs M may have about their current situation. So theyll first need to complain to BUPA 
about that issue specifically before we can potentially look into a complaint about that issue 
alone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I think BUPA has already 
settled this complaint fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Mr and Mrs M for their detailed submissions to us, which Ive read and 
considered in their entirety, even though Ive summarised what theyve said. Its clear that 
they and Ms M have been through a very difficult and distressing time, and theyve provided 
us with very personal information about Ms Ms health. I do hope that she is now on the road 
to recovery. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the policy terms and the circumstances of this claim, to decide whether BUPA treated Mr 
and Mrs M fairly.Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ms contract with BUPA. Section one of the policy booklet sets out information about eligible 
treatment, benefits and limitations. A sub-section of this section says:
All treatment must be carried out in a recognised facility in the UK, and provided by a 
consultant, medical practitioner or healthcare professional who is recognised by us for the 
treatment you need on the date you receive that treatment, unless we specifically authorise 
otherwise in a particular case.
A recognised practitioner is defined as:
a healthcare practitioner who at the time of your Treatment: 
- is recognised by us for the purpose of our private medical insurance schemes for 
treating the medical condition you have and for providing the type of Treatment you 
need, and 
- is in our list of recognised practitioners that applies to your Benefits.
In my view, BUPA terms make it clear that in order for claims to be covered, a policyholder 
must receive treatment from a practitioner it recognises. This term applies to all consultants, 
medical practitioners or healthcare professionals  which means that it would apply to both 
psychiatrists and psychologists too. As such, whether Mr and Mrs M were seeking to claim 
for psychiatrists costs or the psychologists costs, the same considerations in terms of 
whether or not BUPA recognised them would apply. 
Page 35 of the policy sets out the claims process. This includes situations in which a GP has 
given an open referral and says:
This allows us to offer you a choice of nearby recognised practitioners covered under your 
Benefits.
In this case, it appears that once Ms M had obtained a GP referral for a psychiatric 
consultation, BUPA provided Mr and Mrs M with a list of psychiatrists it recognised. Its 
unfortunate that Mr and Mrs M werent able to secure appointments with these practitioners, 
or that they considered they didnt have the relevant experience. But it seems to me that 
BUPA acted in line with the terms of the policy and did provide Mrs M with a list of 
recognised psychiatrists. And it also appears that in July 2021, BUPA told Mrs M that if the 
list of practitioners it had sent her wasnt suitable, she could ask for more. 
However, it doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs M got back in touch with BUPA until after Ms M 
had already been seen by a non-BUPA recognised psychiatrist and following her referral to a 
non-BUPA recognised psychologist. I can entirely understand why it was important for Mr 
and Mrs M to arrange treatment for Ms M as soon as possible and I also appreciate that it 
was important to them that the practitioners Ms M saw were recommended. But I do think 
the policy terms were sufficiently clear that only claims for treatment by recognised 
practitioners would be eligible for payment and that theyd been told clearly how their policy 
worked.
It's clear that in December 2021, Mrs M contacted BUPA because Ms M required further 
treatment from a psychiatrist and asked for a further list of specialists. I understand how 
frustrating it mustve been when BUPA didnt respond to that contact, or indeed to her follow-
up. This mustve caused additional upset and worry at an already difficult time for the family. 
Im glad Ms M was able to see a psychiatrist during this time. And I think it was entirely 
appropriate for BUPA to recognise that it had let Mr and Mrs M down here. I think it was fair and reasonable for BUPA to cover the cost of Ms Ms December 2021 appointment, together 
with paying £200 compensation for Mr and Mrs Ms trouble and upset,
With that said though, I think BUPA had made it sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs M that it 
wouldnt cover psychiatric treatment from a psychiatrist or psychologist which it didnt 
recognise. This had been made clear to Mrs M in September 2021 and reiterated in January 
and February 2022. BUPA had also provided a further list of recognised practitioners to Mr 
and Mrs M in February 2022, so it had been open to them to look into changing practitioner. 
While I appreciate how important it was to Mr and Mrs M that Ms M received ongoing care 
from the same psychiatrist, its simply the case that their preferred practitioner isnt 
recognised by BUPA. And therefore, I dont think it was unfair for BUPA to decline to cover 
Ms Ms ongoing treatment costs with a provider it doesnt recognise.
Id add too that I cant fairly hold BUPA responsible for the availability of mental health 
professionals during a period of very high demand for mental health services. And as were 
not the industry regulator, I cant tell BUPA which professional qualifications it should 
recognise or which healthcare practitioners it should recognise on its lists. 
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ms position, I find that BUPA has 
already settled this complaint fairly. So Im not directing it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that BUPA has settled this complaint 
fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman