DRN-3132301
The complaint
Mr R complains that outstanding default balances remain on his credit file despite Lowell 
Financial Ltd agreeing to close the associated accounts. 
What happened
Lowell acquired five debts in Mr Rs name. One related to a mobile phone contract, the 
remaining four related to debts that came about by way of a credit agreement. In 2019 and 
2020 Lowell sent Mr R various letters advising it had purchased debts in his name. 
Mr R contacted Lowell and explained he was vulnerable and suffering with his mental health. 
Mr R also explained he was experiencing financial difficulties. Ultimately, Lowell took the 
decision not to pursue Mr R further for the outstanding balances. In July 2021 Lowell sent Mr 
R a letter that confirmed it had decided not to take any further action to recover the debts 
and that it had closed the accounts. Lowell confirmed the defaults recorded on Mr Rs credit 
file would remain for six years. 
Mr R later complained that the defaults on his credit file still showed outstanding balances. 
Lowell said that whilst the accounts were closed after considering Mr Rs circumstances, the 
outstanding balances would remain on his credit file as they hadnt been repaid. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Rs complaint but didnt ask Lowell to do anything 
else. Mr R asked to appeal and said the information recorded by Lowell wasnt an accurate 
representation of his accounts. As Mr R asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr R for sharing some very personal and difficult information with us 
concerning the background of his complaint. Ive been reasonably brief in setting the timeline 
out in this case as all parties broadly agree about what happened. And Mr Rs complaint 
focuses on the information on his credit file following Lowells decision to close the accounts. 
As our investigator said to Mr R, we can only look at certain debts. We cant consider 
complaints about mobile phone contracts in their own right. So my decision is going to relate 
to the four remaining debts, as set out by the investigator in their findings. 
Im pleased Lowell took Mr Rs circumstances into account and agreed not to pursue him 
further for the outstanding balances. I understand Mr R feels that should mean his defaults 
have a zero balance, but I dont agree. Ill explain why. 
Whilst Lowell has confirmed its no longer seeking repayments from Mr R and has closed his 
accounts, it hasnt said the debts were repaid. The decision to cease collections activity was 
taken on the basis of reviewing Mr Rs circumstances, not because the balances were 
cleared. 
In response to the investigator, Mr R has pointed out hes been told he doesnt owe Lowell 
any money so his credit file should reflect a zero balance for the debts whether he repaid 
them or not. Mr R also said that whilst he may not have repaid the debts, Lowell had 
effectively done so. But I dont agree thats correct. Lowell has confirmed it wont pursue Mr 
R for the debts, but it hasnt claimed it repaid them on his behalf. 
I think its also reasonable to note that Lowells ability to reflect what happened on Mr Rs 
credit file is limited. Theres no option to show its taken the decision not to pursue Mr R for 
the debts. Lowell can only show whether the account is in default and if the balance has 
been repaid in full. Im satisfied that in the circumstances of Mr Rs case, Lowells decision to 
report the remaining balances on his credit file is reasonable and does reflect the status of 
those debts. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I dont agree it would be more accurate for 
Lowell to record the balances as zero. 
Mr R has also said that Lowells letter confirming a stop to collections activity said the 
accounts were closed with a zero balance. I think Mr R makes a reasonable point when he 
says Lowell couldve made the situation a bit clearer when it gave its decision. But I havent 
found Mr R is in a worse position as a result. Ultimately, even if Lowell had been more 
specific about the action it had taken and confirmed outstanding balances would remain on 
his credit file Mr R wouldve been in the same position. Im satisfied there wasnt an option 
where Lowell would agree to close Mr Rs accounts, stop trying to collect payments from him 
and also report the outstanding balances as zero. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but Im satisfied Lowell has dealt with his complaint fairly. As a 
result, Im not telling it to amend his credit file or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman