DRN-4018181
The complaint
The complaint relates to the decision made by ReAssure regarding the pension benefits of 
the late Mr M.
Whilst completing the process of allocating Mr Ms pension funds, Mrs R (Mr Ms sister) also 
sadly passed away.
ReAssure concluded that Mr Ms pension should be split equally between three parties  
Mrs B, Mr R and Mrs W.
Mrs Rs executors (Mrs B and Mr R) have complained that had ReAssure not caused 
unnecessary delays, the decision regarding Mr Ms pension funds would have been made 
prior to Mrs Rs death, and she would therefore have received a proportion of the pension 
monies.
Mrs B and Mr R state that the decision made by ReAssure goes against the will and 
expression of wish form completed by Mr M prior to his death.
ReAssure have accepted that there were delays in the process of issuing paperwork to 
Mr Ms estate and offered redress to the estate of Mr M by way of compensation for the 
delay. 
The additional complaint regarding the decision made by ReAssure has been dealt with 
separately here, as it relates to the issues and potential losses faced separately by the 
estate of Mrs R.
What happened
Mr M sadly passed away on 15 August 2021. ReAssure received notification of this on 9 
September 2021.
A claim form for Mr Ms ReAssure pension was issued to the executors of his estate on 15 
October 2021 and was subsequently received back by ReAssure on 10 December 2021.
On 5 January 2022 ReAssure issued a letter stating that stating death benefit form had not 
been completed correctly with beneficiaries section not being fully completed. In addition, 
letter stated (incorrectly) that the death certificate supplied was not sufficient.
There was further contact between ReAssure and the executors of Mr Ms estate on 12 
January 2022, where the issue around the death certificate was discussed and resolved, 
with the completed death benefit form re-submitted. 
Subsequently a complaint was made regarding the delays suffered.
ReAssure issued their response to this on 9 March 2022. Within this Reassure accepted the 
time taken to issue the death benefit claim forms was outside their normal servicing 
timescales and accepted they had incorrectly rejected the death certificate which had been 
supplied. As such a payment of redress was offered to the estate of Mr M.
On 4 April 2022 ReAssure wrote to the estate of Mr Ms solicitors and explained that they 
needed information regarding his relationships to inform their decision. 
This letter asked for information and commentary from four parties (Mrs SB, Mrs B, Mr R and 
Mrs W). In addition, ReAssure expressed condolences following the passing of Mrs R and 
asked for a copy of her death certificate so that she could be removed as a potential 
beneficiary.
The late Mrs Rs death certificate was provided to ReAssure on 12 April 2022. An 
accompanying letter asked for her not to be disregarded as a potential beneficiary as she 
was alive at the date of Mr Ms death.
Further information was provided about the relationships between the late Mr M and Mrs R, 
Mrs B and Mr R on 22 April 2022. 
Mrs W wrote to ReAssure on 20 May 2022 explaining her relationship with the late Mr M. At 
this time ReAssure also received a letter from Mrs B as she had been informed of a 10% 
bequeathment from the policies.
On 27 June 2022 ReAssure reached their decision and split policy into equal thirds between 
Mr R, Mrs B and Mrs W  who alongside the late Mrs R were the three other beneficiaries 
noted on the expression of wish form attached to the pension.
On 20 July 2022, following ReAssures decision on how the policy should be split, questions 
were raised by Mrs B and Mr R. It was questioned why the late Mrs R had been removed as 
a beneficiary given she had been alive at the time of Mr Ms passing and had been his 
closest living relative at that time of his death. The letter noted ReAssures decision was 
delayed due to their own error and as such requested the decision be reconsidered.
On 8 August 2022 ReAssure issued a response to the complaint made by the late Mrs Rs 
beneficiaries stating that having reviewed the timeline of events even if they had not caused 
a delay in dealing with the late Mr Ms pension documentation, settlement of the pension 
would not have occurred before Mrs Rs death and as such the funds would be split among 
the other beneficiaries as per his will.
ReAssure provided a further response on 19 August 2022. Here it was explained that the 
pension was not an asset of the estate of Mr M and as such the decision was based on the 
circumstances at the date of the decision, and not the circumstances at the date of death. 
The letter also explained that the decision was entirely at the discretion of the trustees with 
the nomination form being considered but not binding.
Not agreeing with the decision made by ReAssure, the complaint was registered with this 
service in September 2022.
Our investigator looked into things but ultimately concluded that they did not believe anything 
further was required of ReAssure. Whilst there had been delays to the claim process our 
investigator noted that even without these delays, payment would still not have been made 
prior to Mrs Rs passing. In addition, the investigator stated that the decision on who to pay 
benefits to rests solely with ReAssure as the pensions trustees. 
Overall, it was concluded ReAssure had completed a thorough investigation before deciding 
on who should receive the pension funds.
Mrs B and Mr R did not agree stating that ReAssure had caused delays and that the 
decision went against the expression of wish form and will completed Mr M.Following a subsequent information request, ReAssure have confirmed that the decision on 
who should receive the pension funds was based on the expression of wish form held on file 
for the policy in question (and not Mr Ms will as previously stated). This decision was 
reached after considering all those individuals named in both the expression of wish form 
and the will.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to express my condolences to the families of both Mr M and Mrs R in 
what must be stressful and upsetting times.
In issuing this decision I would like to be clear that both trust law and the terms and 
conditions of the late Mr Ms pension policy are clear that the decision as to who receives the 
funds from the pension rests solely with the trustees of the pension  ReAssure in this case.
The pension policy sat outside of Mr Ms estate and as such any instructions given in his will 
are not in any way binding on the trustees. 
To better inform who may benefit from a pension in the event of a policyholders death most 
providers ask the policy holder to complete an expression of wish form, indicating who the 
policyholder would want to receive the funds in the event of their death. Whilst I dont have a 
copy of the form in this case ReAssure have confirmed the people named in this case. 
Additionally, experience tells me that expression of wish forms clearly state that the trustees 
(ReAssure) retain absolute discretion over who receives the funds, with the people 
nominated by the policyholder not automatically being entitled to any element of the policy.
What I would expect however is for the trustees to undertake a thorough investigation into 
who they believe should benefit from a policy in the event of the policyholders death, with 
this investigation taking into consideration both the content of the will and any expression of 
wish form that may have been completed. These investigations are also often informed by 
the claim forms sent to executors once a business has been informed of a policyholders 
death.
It is also important to note that even in cases where I consider a trustees investigation to 
have been flawed, it is not for me to substitute my opinion on who should benefit for theirs. 
Given the trustees absolute right to make the decision, I am limited to asking them to revisit 
their outcome, giving further consideration to any evidence I believe they may have 
overlooked. This process might not necessarily lead to any change to the eventual decision 
made or beneficiaries chosen.
Having looked at the investigation carried out by ReAssure in this case, I can see that all 
those named in both Mr Ms will, and expression of wish form, were considered as potential 
beneficiaries of the pension. 
One of the issues raised here is that the decision was delayed, and that without those delays 
Mrs R would have been selected and received the funds prior to her death. 
Having looked at the timeline of events above I do not believe this would have been the 
case. ReAssure received the notification of Mr Ms death on 9 September 2021. Claim forms for 
his pension were not issued until 15 October 2021. ReAssure have already accepted (as 
part of a separate complaint) that this took too long. Allowing five working days to issue the 
relevant forms this equates to a delay of around three weeks.
The relevant forms were received back by ReAssure on 10 December 2021. ReAssure could 
do nothing until these forms were returned and as such are not responsible for the time 
between 15 October 2021 and 10 December 2021.
These forms were returned to the executors as incorrect on 5 January 2022. 
ReAssure (incorrectly) stated that there was an issue with the death certificate however in 
addition to this, two sections of the claim form had not been completed correctly. As such, 
even without the death certificate issue there would still have been a delay after 10 
December 2021 whilst these sections of the claim forms were completed correctly. 
Once the completed forms had been received, they would have had to been checked and 
assessed. From there, all potential beneficiaries would have to be written to for further 
information about their relationship with the late Mr M. 
Following receipt of all this additional information from each party, this would then also need 
to be assessed before any decision could be made.
Even in accepting that there were delays to the process caused by ReAssure, I do not 
believe these are significant enough to allow all the above work to have been completed 
prior to Mrs Rs death on 13 January 2022. 
Additional points made by Mrs Rs estate note that they believe the beneficiary decision 
should be made based on the circumstances at the time of Mr Ms death and that upon 
Mrs Rs death her share should have been split in line with the wishes laid out in Mr Ms will 
 namely split equally between Mrs B and Mr R.
However, as I have detailed above, the decision as to who receives pension benefits is at 
the sole discretion of the pension trustees  ReAssure. To make such a decision an 
investigation is often required, it is the circumstances uncovered as part of that investigation 
which informs the decision, as such it is based on circumstances at that time, rather than the 
circumstances at the time of death.
In addition, as above, the pension sits outside of the policyholders estate and is not covered 
by any instructions given in any will that a policyholder may have made.
I fully appreciate Mrs B and Mr Rs objections to the decision made by ReAssure, however I 
have concluded that whilst there were delays in the process, these delays were not sufficient 
to mean the investigation could have been concluded prior to Mrs Rs death. 
A full and thorough investigation was undertaken before ReAssure made their decision as to 
who should receive Mr Ms pension funds with no potential beneficiary excluded from that 
investigation. As such I see no reason to instruct ReAssure to re-open or reconsider their 
decision in this matter, and given this I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman