DRN-2846245
The complaint
Mr S complains about a personal loan provided to him by Progressive Money Limited, 
(PML), which he says was unaffordable. 
  
What happened
PML provided Mr S with a loan of £6,000 (the amount of credit) on 27 April 2017. In addition, 
PML added an acceptance fee and an administration fee totalling £990 to Mr Ss loan 
account. The interest rate was 34.49%, (51.53% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 36 
months with monthly repayments of £296.74. If Mr S made each payment when it was due, 
hed pay £10,682.64 in total. Part of the loan was used to repay some other borrowing. 
When I last received information on Mr Ss account, he still had a balance outstanding on the 
loan. 
Mr S said that given the information hed submitted to PML, the loan should not have been 
approved. The bank statements he provided showed his spending was out of control. He 
had spent £2,240.80 whilst earning a monthly income of £1,158.70. From the start he was 
repaying the loan with the loan sum rather than earnings. He accepted the loan thinking he 
could get a better job which would enable him to afford the payments. When this didn't 
happen, he phoned PML in late November 2017 to ask for the monthly payments to be 
reduced. 
In its final response letter, PML said that it had assessed Mr Ss monthly income and 
expenditure and made a credit search. The credit search showed that Mr S had an active 
current account and a defaulted loan account from 2011. PML also spoke to Mr S and he 
said that he had two jobs and no mortgage. He also said he had a payday loan and PML 
required this to be repaid from its loan proceeds. Mr Ss application was also approved using 
bank statements he supplied and payslips. PML said that it had completed correct 
affordability checks and the loan was deemed affordable.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He said that 
PML obtained information about Mr Ss income, normal monthly expenditure and other credit 
commitments, and carried out a credit search. In addition, the lender saw recent payslips 
and bank account transactions. Based on the term and the cost of this loan, he thought 
those checks were proportionate. But he said that the repayments for this loan represented a 
significant proportion of Mr Ss income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk 
that Mr S wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments without having to 
borrow again. The adjudicator said that PML ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr S 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan.
PML disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that:
- It had reviewed Mr Ss credit file and established that Mr S had no outstanding 
mortgage, secured or unsecured loan commitments other than a defaulted loan. It was 
later established that Mr S had a short term loan which was directly consolidated using 
the loan funds.
- Mr S had three jobs with a total net monthly income of £1124.08.
- The loan monthly repayment equated to 26% of Mr Ss monthly income. But as Mr S 
didnt have a mortgage or other loans, it didnt class the monthly loan payment to be a 
significant proportion of his income.
- Payments for Mr Ss living costs were taken into account and the loan was deemed 
affordable with a monthly disposable income of £110.25.
- Mr S continued to maintain his monthly payments without signs of any financial difficulty 
until 8 March 2020. He then explained that he had an additional expense to pay which 
would result in him missing his payment in March 2020. During a call on 15 April 2020 
Mr S requested a payment deferral as his employment had been affected by the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
Mr S responded to say that the monthly disposable income of £110.25 referred to by PML 
was a very small margin. He also said that the figures he gave PML over the phone did not 
match the spending figures on the bank statements he provided to PML. If it had checked 
one against the other, it would have seen he was already spending more than he was 
earning and that the loan repayments therefore were not going to be affordable.
Mr S also said that struggling to meet these monthly repayments affected his mental health, 
his quality of life and his relationship. He took on extra shifts working twelve hour days 
across three jobs. He had no savings at the end of the month, and he had to take out payday 
loans to supplement his income to afford food, pay household bills and pay for car repairs. 
 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to PML on 16 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when PML lent to Mr S the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged PML to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that PML needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or 
not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, PML had to think about whether Mr S could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr S. 
In general, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did PML complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ss 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
- Did PML make a fair lending decision?
Did PML carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when it provided the loan?
As set out above, PML had gathered some information from Mr S about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. PML had also 
spoken to Mr S on the phone to obtain information about his income and expenses and his 
other credit. Mr S had also provided PML with his recent payslips, his bank statements for 
three months and various identification documents.
I noted that Mr S was entering into a significant commitment with PML. He would need to 
make monthly repayments for a period of three years. So, Id thought it was reasonable that 
PML had wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about       
Mr Ss financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. 
I thought that PML did gather a significant amount of information about Mr Ss circumstances 
and I thought the checks were reasonable and proportionate in terms of the information 
requested. But Id also said that simply performing proportionate checks wasnt always 
enough. A lender also needed to react appropriately to what those checks showed. So, Id 
looked at the information that PML gathered from its checks to determine whether it had 
made a fair decision to lend to Mr S. Id also listened carefully to all the call recordings PML 
had provided which enabled me to further understand the application process Mr S went 
through to obtain this loan.
Did PML make a fair lending decision?
Id noted that PML had carried out a credit check. This showed that Mr S had a defaulted 
loan account from 2011 and the default balance had reduced. The check also showed that 
Mr S had an active current account but no other credit accounts. I didnt think that the results 
of its credit checks should have caused PML additional concerns. But when PML spoke to Mr S, hed said that he had an outstanding payday loan which 
hadnt shown on the credit checks. The loan was for £1,000. As a condition of being 
approved for the loan, PML required the payday loan to be repaid and it used around £781 
from the loan proceeds to repay Mr Ss payday loan. Id thought PML might have been 
concerned about Mr Ss need to borrow £1,000 on expensive short term credit. Mr S also 
told PML during the call that he was repaying £15 per month to an old loan (which it seemed 
was the defaulted loan). Hed also told PML that he didnt have a mortgage and owned his 
home.
When Mr S first spoke to PML, hed initially said that he had two jobs but later in the call said 
he had three jobs. Mr S had provided PML with his payslips for one month from his three 
jobs. PML showed Mr Ss total monthly income as £1,124.08 in its income and expenditure 
form. 
Id noted that the adjudicator had said that the repayments for this loan represented a 
significant proportion (26%) of Mr Ss income and in these circumstances, there was a 
significant risk that Mr S wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments without 
having to borrow again. PML disagreed and said that as Mr S didnt have a mortgage or 
other loans, it didnt class the monthly loan payment to be a significant proportion of his 
income. 
Id appreciated that Mr S wouldnt be paying a mortgage or rental payments or other loans. 
But, Mr S was committing to pay a high monthly loan repayment amount over a long period 
of time. So, Id thought his living costs and existing debt needed to be considered carefully to 
determine whether in Mr Ss circumstances, there was a significant risk that he wouldnt be 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again, or a significant risk 
that making the payments to the loan would have caused Mr S undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. 
Mr S had provided estimates of some of his living costs to PML when hed spoken to it on 
the phone. But PML had requested a list of Mr Ss bank transactions and it had analysed 
some of the expenditure on these over a three month period. It noted that there were 340 
transactions and that the debits were almost £5,900 and the credits were around £3,900. Id 
thought PML might have been concerned that Mr S was spending a lot more than hed 
received. PML had also provided this service with copies of the transaction lists it saw 
complete with its notes. It had also made a list of recurring debits for some types of 
expenditure. 
Id also reviewed the transaction lists for the three months prior to Mr Ss loan application. 
Whilst I could see that Mr Ss income and expenditure did vary from month to month, Id 
thought the information Id looked at was reasonably representative of his true 
circumstances. I could also see that the expenses shown on the lists were higher than Mr S 
had declared on the phone to PML. 
Id noted that whilst PML had calculated Mr Ss expenditure on monthly living costs and debt 
to total around £717, I couldnt see that it had included all of Mr Ss essential living costs and 
debt. In particular, I couldnt see that it had included in its calculations all payments to the 
council, all petrol, gym costs, a reasonable amount for clothes, counselling fees, all 
housekeeping and debt. For example, Id noted that Mr S had paid £100 to a debt collection 
agency in the month before the loan application which PML hadnt included. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Id also said that I hadnt included the repayments on the payday 
loan which was repaid by PMLs loan in my calculations. I could see from my calculations that in each of the two months prior to the loan application, 
Mr S wouldnt have been left with enough money to pay for PMLs loan repayments after his 
essential living costs and debt had been deducted from his monthly income. So, I didnt think 
that it was likely that Mr S could afford to meet PMLs loan repayments in a sustainable 
manner over the lifetime of the agreement. 
Id also noted that when PML first spoke to Mr S, it had asked him how much hed wanted to 
pay each month. Hed said £150, although he could pay more. Id thought £150 was a more 
reasonable assessment of what Mr S could afford. But, I noted that PML had provided him 
with a loan with a monthly repayment of almost double that amount. 
Overall, I didnt think that PML had made a sufficiently detailed analysis of Mr Ss bank 
transactions. Id thought that a better assessment should have led to the loan application 
being declined. So, Id thought PML treated Mr S unfairly when it agreed to lend to him, and 
subject to any further representations by Mr S or PML, I intended to say that his complaint 
should be upheld, and that PML should put things right as follows.
Putting things right - what PML needs to do
I hadnt received recent information about whether the loan has been repaid. So, Id drafted 
my redress on the basis that it hadnt been repaid. I said that PML should tell me in its 
response to my provisional decision whether the loan has been repaid. 
If PML has sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it should buy this back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If PML isnt able to buy the debt back, then it 
should liaise with the third party to achieve the results outlined below.
PML should put things right for Mr S as follows:
- PML needs to ensure that Mr S only repays the principal of £6,000 borrowed on 
the loan. In other words, he should not pay any interest, fees or charges for this 
loan. So, PML should remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the 
account from when it was opened.
- Treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on that loan.
- If this results in Mr S having made overpayments, then PML should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
- If an outstanding balance remains then PML should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr S, bearing in mind its obligation to treat him positively 
and sympathetically in these discussions.
- Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file as a result of the 
loan once the loan has been settled.
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to take off tax from this interest. PML must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If PML intends 
to use the refunds to reduce an amount Mr S owes, it must do this after tax.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say that he had nothing to add.
PML responded to my provisional decision to request a copy of Mr Ss income and 
expenditure information which Id completed during my investigation.I provided this information to PML. It then responded and asked me to review my provisional 
decision. It said, in summary, that:  
- It had spoken to Mr S before providing the loan. He had told it his income on a 
monthly basis and he said that his total income for March 2017 was £1,147. PML 
noted that I had provided a different amount of £1,105. PML had also allocated 
the amounts Mr S told it he spent towards various expenses.
- It noted that in the expenses information that Id provided to it that the same 
amounts werent being spent each month on certain expenses. 
- It couldnt see how I had calculated the monthly council tax bill.
- It said that Mr S never missed a payment until March 2020 which he said was 
due to unexpected costs. If Mr S had to take out other more expensive credit 
during the loan period to cover its loan instalments, it would have expected to see 
evidence of that. It had seen nothing that gave it reason to believe that Mr S had 
actually suffered detriment as a result of its loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered carefully PMLs response to my provisional findings. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for it, but I am still of the view that it was irresponsible for it to have 
agreed the loan for Mr S. Ive explained my reasons in my provisional decision and Ive also 
responded to its main points in response to my provisional decision below. 
Following receipt of my provisional decision, PML asked me to provide a copy of my 
income and expenditure calculations for Mr S. I provided it with a schedule to show my 
calculations for two periods of around a month each. The periods were 21 February 2017 
to 20 March 2017, and 21 March 2017 to 20 April 2017. As the loan was provided on       
27 April 2017, it wasnt possible to provide a complete breakdown of income and expenses 
for the whole month of April. 
Id also noted that the transaction lists received from PML were not all complete and some 
contained only certain expenditure. So, it wasnt straightforward to compile an accurate 
income and expenditure schedule from that information. 
Mr S had provided this Service with some bank statements for the relevant period which 
were complete and easier to follow, but covered only part of the relevant period. Id used 
the two periods referred to above on the schedule supplied to PML so as to make use of 
the clearer bank statements provided by Mr S where possible.
The adjudicator had explained to PML in the email sent with my schedule that I hadnt 
included in my calculations cash withdrawals, charity payments and numerous instances of 
what appeared to be discretionary spend.  
I had set out in the schedule my calculations of Mr Ss disposable income for each period 
(£293 and £277), which in both cases wasnt sufficient to meet the loan repayment of around 
£297. The email also said that there wouldnt there be any disposable income remaining 
after making the loan repayment for any unexpected expenses, and that this wasnt 
sustainable for a loan term of 36 months. 
I note that PML had said that some expenses werent being spent in both periods. But even 
if Id taken the average amount of the income and living costs Id calculated for both periods in my schedule, the monthly disposable income remaining still didnt provide a sufficient 
amount to pay the monthly loan repayment. 
I note that PML said that it had used the expense figures Mr S provided to it on the phone. 
But as it had been provided with a list of Mr Ss bank transactions, I would have reasonably 
expected it to rely on these as a more accurate reflection of his living costs. 
I note that PML had made some notes on its list of transactions about certain expenses, but 
the notes dont appear to cover all of Mr Ss living costs. 
Altogether, it doesnt appear PML had properly scrutinised the bank transaction information it 
saw to properly verify Mr Ss monthly disposable income and to ensure that Mr S did have 
enough money to be able to make the monthly repayments. 
I also note that PML had calculated Mr Ss income for the month of March 2017 to be 
£1,147. I agree with this amount for that month. Ive also reviewed the bank transaction lists 
again to determine Mr Ss normal monthly living costs for March 2017. But, it still appears 
that Mr Ss disposable income for that month wouldnt have been sufficient to meet the 
monthly loan repayment.  
PML has queried my calculation of the monthly council tax bill. In March 2017, I can see that 
Mr S paid the council five weekly payments of £10 together with two larger payments of 
£110 and £35 on 7 March 2017.
I note that PML said that Mr S didnt miss a payment until March 2020. I cant agree that just 
because Mr S had made his previous repayments to PML, that this meant he wasnt 
struggling to meet them. The regulations required PML to check that Mr S could afford to 
make repayments in a sustainable manner. Successfully meeting repayments doesnt 
automatically mean that he managed to do so without difficulty, in other words without 
borrowing from elsewhere or going without.
I note that PML said that if Mr S had to take out other more expensive credit during the loan 
period to cover its loan instalments, it would have expected to see evidence of that. It said 
that it had seen nothing that gave it reason to believe that Mr S had actually suffered 
detriment as a result of its loan. But Ive seen from Mr Ss bank statements that within eight 
months of PMLs loan, hed needed to take out a payday loan and that hed later taken out 
two further payday loans. Mr S said in his complaint form that hed taken out payday loans to 
afford food and pay household bills. As Ive said above, repaying debt in a sustainable 
manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal income while meeting normal 
outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these repayments. So, it doesnt appear 
that Mr S was able to repay his loan sustainably.
So overall, I still think PML was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr S based on the 
information it had, and I think that it made an unfair lending decision when it agreed to lend 
to Mr S. I think it had sufficient information to show that Mr Ss spending was out of control, 
that he was having problems managing his money and might struggle to make the loan 
repayments.
I want to reassure the parties that I have thought carefully about everything again but for the 
reasons set out above, I see no reason to alter my provisional conclusions. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint and require PML to pay Mr S some compensation and to take the 
steps set out above under the heading Putting things right  what PML needs to do.
  My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I  
order Progressive Money Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading 
Putting things right  what PML needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman