DRN-4364831
The complaint
Mr G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has registered a marker about him at CIFAS, the
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr G says that the marker is affecting his ability to get a bank account and apply for student 
finance. He hasnt knowingly received any fraudulent money into his account.
Monzo Bank said it wouldnt be removing the marker. It has asked Mr G to show he was 
entitled to a credit of £475 that had been received into his account in September 2021. He 
wasnt able to do so, and this money had been reported as being fraudulently obtained.
Our investigator issued a view upholding his complaint after Mr G had submitted information 
about the payment. He says he was selling items online. He provided a screenshot that he 
said was a chat with the buyer on 26 September 2021. He had sold trainers for £475 and 
sent £300 to a friend who had supplied them and £175 to another bank account. He didnt 
know that the money had been fraudulently obtained. Mr G had sent in information about 
other sales with postage receipts.
Monzo Bank didnt agree to remove the marker. It said that the last receipt provided was 
from June 2021. The receipts seemed to involve the sending of large letters or small parcels 
with a value up to £50 and not similar to the trainers he says he sold here. All the other 
credits to his account seemed to come from the friend that had received part of the 
proceeds. And the screenshot could have been forged and it otherwise seemed odd to take 
a picture of the online chat that day.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 30 August 2023, and I set out below what I said
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo 
Bank needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The 
evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, 
an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
Id taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mr G was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
he may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether he has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
I could see that Mr Gs bank account was opened in April 2021. He didnt use it until 18 
September 2021. And all the other credits seemed to come from him or the friend hes 
referred to. The payment of £475 was received on 26 September 2021 at about 18:00. The 
money was moved on with £300 to the friend and £175 to Mr Gs account at a different 
financial business.
I wasnt in a position to verify that the screenshot Mr G has now provided is genuine. If it was 
his practice to take such screenshots then I was unclear why he wouldnt have provided this 
earlier when he was explaining to Monzo Bank what he says happened and was asked for 
any evidence. If he didnt tend to take such screenshots then Id also be unclear why he did 
so then. I noted that the person he is chatting with seems to have seen the trainers in a 
picture, asks for a picture and that the same picture is sent back to them. I wasnt clear 
where this item was then advertised. There is no information about any other sales or items 
around that time. Mr G hasnt provided any proof that he posted this item. It seemed from the 
other information he has provided that he may have been selling smaller value items earlier 
in the year. I didnt have anything to show how such money was received and if as he says 
happened here it was shared with a friend.
I was satisfied that this money was reported as being fraudulently obtained. I needed to 
decide if Mr G reasonably knew it was fraudulent. I noted his age of 16 at the time and that 
he says he had an unsophisticated business. But I wasnt persuaded on balance that he 
wasnt a witting participant in what happened in light of all the evidence. And I said Id find 
him equally responsible for what happened if for example hed allowed someone else to use 
his bank account in this way.
Monzo Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr G received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Id looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. And 
that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion.
Having reviewed Mr Gs account of events and the evidence he has provided, I was satisfied 
that Monzo Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Id taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr G received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Monzo Bank
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the
benefit of this money.
- Monzo Bank had grounds to believe that Mr G had used fraudulently obtained funds
based on the evidence it had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt receive any more comments or evidence from either Monzo Bank or Mr G. So, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings on the complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman