DRN-2348015
The complaint
Mr P and Miss T complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) has reduced their monthly 
mortgage payment, contrary to their wishes.
What happened
Mr P and Miss T took out a mortgage with YBS in 2011. The initial required contractual 
monthly repayments were just under £680. Mr P and Miss T chose to make regular 
overpayments to their mortgage. To achieve this, they set their repayments at £1,000 per 
month. The repayments were fixed at this level  something YBS refers to as a static 
payment. This arrangement continued for a number of years with the payments collected 
not deviating from £1,000.
In June 2019 Mr P and Miss T took out additional borrowing with YBS on their mortgage. 
This resulted in their being two sub-accounts within the mortgage  the original loan and the 
further advance. The total contractual repayment for the mortgage as a whole, following the 
further advance, was around £926.
Mr P and Miss T wanted to continue to make overpayments to their mortgage, so they asked 
YBS to collect payments of £1,500. They requested that all of the amount overpaid each 
month, roughly £574 per month at the time, be allocated to, and used to reduce, the further 
advance, with none going towards the original borrowing. The reason for this, they explained 
to YBS, was that they were approaching their limit for penalty free overpayments to the 
original mortgage.
YBS began collecting £1,500 as requested from July 2019. 
In January 2020, YBS carried out its annual review of the account and issued an account 
statement to Mr P and Miss T. The statement explained that, as part of the review, YBS had 
recalculated the underlying contractual monthly repayment  which had reduced to just 
under £874. As a result, from March 2020, it was going to change the amount it was 
collecting each month from Mr P and Miss T to just over £1,447, as opposed to the £1,500 
that had been collected in the previous months. This new amount was the new contractual 
repayment, plus the previous monthly overpayment of £574.
In June 2020 Miss T contacted YBS to say that she had noticed that it had reduced the 
amount being collected and that she and Mr P wanted to complain about this. She also 
wanted it to reinstate the repayment amount of £1,500. YBS said it would need Mr Ps 
authority to alter the amount being claimed by direct debit as this was being collected from 
an account that was in his name only. Miss T also didnt think this was fair. 
In response to the complaint YBS said it had acted correctly by recalculating the monthly 
repayment. It said that, as Mr P and Miss T had wanted the overpayments to all be credited 
against one sub account, rather than spread evenly, it hadnt been able to set up a static 
payment as it had done previously  as this wasnt how static payments worked. It had 
instead needed to set up a voluntary additional payment of the difference between the 
contractual repayment and £1,500, which was approximately £574, and direct this to the sub 
account for the further advance. And while static payments are unaffected by annual 
reviews, the total amount payable where a voluntary additional payment is in place, does 
change at review. It acknowledged though that this hadnt been explained to Mr P and 
Miss T at the time they requested the overpayment. As a result, it offered them £100 for the 
inconvenience caused. It also didnt think it had done anything wrong when declining to 
change the payment back without Mr Ps authority.
Unhappy with YBS response, Mr P and Miss T asked our service to consider their 
complaint. One of our investigators looked at things but felt what YBS had done was fair. He 
agreed, having listened to a recording of the call, that YBS couldve done a better job of 
explaining the different types of overpayment and how these worked when Mr P and Miss T 
made their request in 2019. But overall, he felt YBS had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage when recalculating the amount being collected. He also didnt 
think it was unreasonable for YBS to have required Mr Ps authority to amend the direct debit 
payment, as it was being taken from an account solely in his name. As a result, he felt the 
£100 offered was fair.
Mr P and Miss T did not agree and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr P and Miss Ts mortgage. These confirm the 
differences between a voluntary (or regular) additional payment (VAP) and a static 
payment. In particular they explain that a VAP is a set amount on top of the contractual 
monthly repayment that someone wants to overpay. If the underlying contractual monthly 
repayment changes while someone has a VAP in place, the amount collected will also 
change  although the amount being overpaid will not. A static payment will not change, if 
the underlying contractual repayment does  unless the contractual repayment increases to 
the point it exceeds the static amount. So, the amount paid will generally be fixed at a set 
amount. But the amount of overpayment may increase or reduce depending on changes to 
the underlying repayment. The terms also explain, where a static payment is selected, the 
overpayment will be spread proportionally across all parts of a loan  sub accounts. And I 
think the terms are clear.
These terms and YBS processes are a matter for its own commercial judgement and 
something it is entitled to decide. And I cant require YBS to change these processes or how 
it runs its business.Ive listened to a recording of the call that Mr P and Miss T had with YBS in June 2019 when 
they asked to set up a new overpayment arrangement. They were clear that they wanted all 
of the overpayment to be credited towards the sub-account for the further advance. This 
couldnt be achieved through a static payment  as that wouldve resulted in the 
overpayment being spread evenly across the sub accounts. So, it appears that YBS set up a 
VAP instead. Given what Mr P and Miss T explained to them at the time about their intention 
for the overpayment, I think this was the most appropriate option. So, I dont think YBS was 
wrong to set the overpayments up like this. And it follows that I dont think it was then wrong 
to amend the amount being collected from March 2020  when the underlying contractual 
repayment was recalculated, as by doing so it was acting in line with the account terms and 
conditions of the mortgage.
I do though agree, based on the recording that Ive heard, that this wasnt clearly explained 
to Mr P and Miss T at the time. During the call in question, they spoke to two different staff 
members, neither of which explained that a static payment, which theyd had previously, 
would not allow them to achieve their aims and therefore theyd be setting up a VAP instead.
Ive thought about what Mr P and Miss T wouldve done differently if this had been explained 
to them. But on balance I think theyd have still arranged a VAP  as it was the only way for 
them to achieve their aim of the whole overpayment being applied to one sub account. So, 
the amount being collected on a monthly basis would always have been subject to an annual 
review, and they would always have been required to request the VAP be revised to 
maintain payments of £1,500, as has happened here.
If YBS had explained this to them in 2019, theyd have been aware in advance that theyd 
have needed to contact YBS and potentially amend the VAP on their account  if the annual 
review had meant the underlying contractual repayment changed. So, theyd have had more 
warning of this. But as Ive said, I can see that YBS sent them an annual statement in 
January 2020, explaining the review and how the repayments were due to change. So, I 
think YBS did set this out to them, before it happened.
Mr P and Miss T say that they didnt receive this statement. But from the information 
available to me Im satisfied it was sent out and that it seems to have been addressed 
correctly. So, on balance I think it I more likely than not that it was received, although I 
accept Mr P and Miss T mayve disregarded it at the time.
With that in mind, I dont think YBS failure to explain how the overpayments was set up 
during the call in 2019 has caused something to happen that otherwise wouldnt have. The 
repayments were, I think, recalculated correctly. And Mr P and Miss T were informed of the 
change before it took effect. So, in the circumstances I think the £100 offered by YBS for the 
upset caused by it failing to explain things clearly is a fair and reasonable way to address 
this issue, and I dont think YBS needs to do more.
Turning to YBS declining to amend the direct debit without Mr Ps authority, I dont think it 
has acted unreasonably. The payment was being taken from an account that was solely in 
his name. I think it is reasonable that YBS would need his permission to amend this  even 
where the mortgage was in joint names. 
Mr P and Miss T have said that the amendment to the payments claimed in March 2020 was 
done without speaking to him. But these scenarios are not, in my view, the same. The 
amendment in March 2020 was as a result of the contractual repayment changing. And the 
terms and conditions, agreed to as part of the mortgage, explain that this is an automatic 
change YBS is authorised to make. The request in July 2020 was to increase the voluntary 
overpayment amount  so to change the arrangement outside of the annual review. So 
overall, I dont think YBS acted unreasonably by requiring Mr P to authorise this.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold this complaint as I think Yorkshire Building 
Society has already made a fair offer to resolve matters.
If it hasnt already done so Yorkshire Building Society should pay Mr P and Miss T the £100 
it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman