DRN-3404009
The complaint
Mr D complains NewDay Ltd approved his application for two different credit card accounts 
that were unaffordable and hes also unhappy with credit limit increases that were later 
applied to the accounts.
What happened
Mr D has two credit cards with NewDay  one Aqua card and a Marbles card.
Mr Ds Aqua card was opened in December 2012 and the credit limit was increased in April
2013, April 2016, November 2016 and September 2018.
Mr Ds Marbles card was opened in January 2018 and the credit limit was increased in April,
August and December 2018.
Mr D complained to NewDay in November 2019. He felt NewDay shouldnt have agreed to
lend to him and had done so irresponsibly.
NewDay responded to Mr Ds complaint to say they didnt think they had done anything 
wrong.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ds complaint. He partially upheld the complaint. He said for
the credit limit increases that took place on both cards from April 2018 onwards NewDay
didnt do proportionate checks and had they done so, they wouldve discovered Mr D
couldnt have sustainably repaid any further increases in his lending. He recommended they
rework Mr Ds accounts to remove any interest or charges and remove any adverse
information about the accounts from April 2018 onwards from Mr Ds credit file.
Mr D accepted the Investigators findings.
NewDay didnt agree with our Investigators assessment. They said, in summary, they felt
the lending theyd agreed to provide to Mr D was affordable at the time it was taken and their
checks were appropriate.
After the case was passed to me, I wrote to both sides explaining why I didnt think we could 
consider anything that happened prior to April 2016. Both parties accepted what I said about 
this and so the case was returned to me to consider the merits of Mr Ds complaint
about NewDay.
I issued a provisional decision setting out what I thought. Ive set out my provisional findings 
below and they form part of this decision.
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay had an obligation, when considering whether to offer Mr D the credit cards and any
subsequent credit limit increases, to conduct reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure
he could afford to repay the borrowing sustainably.
Proportionate checks can vary  but generally wed expect a business to satisfy themselves
that the customer can afford to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable way. So I
need to consider if NewDay completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy
themselves that Mr D would be able to repay what he borrowed on the credit cards in a
sustainable way.
In April 2016, Mr Ds credit limit on the Aqua card was increased from £600 to £1,200.
NewDay said before offering Mr D this increase they consider the prior management of his
account. Given how long Mr D had been using this account and the amount of credit being
offered, I think this was proportionate in the circumstances. Ive considered Mr Ds
management of the account in the six months prior to the increase. I can see that although
he incurred a late payment fee of £12  this was only on one occasion. And Mr D had been
consistently making more than the minimum payment. Ive also considered Mr Ds credit file
and bank statements  these dont show he was having any difficulties meeting his other
commitments. So overall Ive found the April 2016 increase on the Aqua card affordable.
In November 2016, Mr D accepted an offer from NewDay to increase the limit again on the
Aqua card. This time from £1,200 to £2,100. By this time, although Mr D had continued to
make more than the minimum payment and his account had generally been managed well 
his total unsecured debt had increased to just over £13,000 and the amount being offered
was higher. So I think NewDay shouldve done more checks at this point. But having
considered Mr Ds bank statements and credit file, if NewDay had done further checks I think
they still wouldve offered the increase and I dont think it was unaffordable.
In January 2018, Mr D applied for a Marbles card with NewDay. In the application he said
hed been employed for more than 10 years, with an annual salary of just under £29,000 and
was living at home with parents. Mr D also said he had unsecured debt of about £8,000 in
this application.
Although the Marbles card was branded differently, Mr D was still  in effect  making an
application for further borrowing from NewDay when he applied for this card. Mr D still held
his Aqua card with NewDay and at this time the limit was £2,100 with a balance of about
£2,000 so I wouldve expected NewDay to take into account what they already knew about
Mr D in making their decision in relation to the Marbles card.
The application was for a credit limit of £900. Based on what Mr D has told us about his
circumstances at the time, although he had debt elsewhere, his credit file shows the
accounts were being managed well so I dont think the offer of the Marbles card with a limit
of £900 was unaffordable for Mr D at this stage.
In April 2018, Mr D accepted an increase to the limit on the Marbles card  to £1,900. This
was an increase of £1,000  more than double the initial limit on the card and on top of
everything Mr D had already borrowed from NewDay. At about the same time hed been 
over the credit limit on both his Aqua and Marbles cards. So for these reasons, I find
NewDay shouldve done further checks before offering this additional amount to Mr D.
Based on Mr Ds bank statements, I can see hed started using payday loans shortly before
taking out the Marbles card in January 2018. But I dont think that necessarily wouldve
meant NewDay shouldnt have agreed to provide the initial limit on the card. But by April
2018, Mr D had increasingly been using payday loans for about six months so had NewDay
done more in depth checks at this point  as Ive explained they shouldve  they wouldvediscovered the use of payday loans and that this had been going on for a number months.
NewDay has said their checks did not show use of payday loans at the time. I dont know
why but Im satisfied Mr D was in fact using payday loans. NewDay also said their credit
check showed no other problems with Mr Ds other accounts. But having considered his
bank statements, it seems likely Mr D was using the short-term lending to maintain the other
accounts which would explain why a credit check wouldnt have showed any problems with
those other accounts. I say this because some of the amounts borrowed correspond directly
to amounts paid to NewDay and Mr Ds other creditors. So I dont think Mr D could afford to
sustainably repay the further £1,000 NewDay offered him in April 2018.
As Ive found NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Ds borrowing in April 2018 and Im
satisfied his circumstances were largely similar at the times of the later increases, it follows
that the further increases on both cards shouldnt have been agreed.
Our Investigator recommended that NewDay take action on both accounts to put things right
from April 2018 onwards. But as a further increase on the Aqua card didnt take place until
September 2018, I think its fair that NewDay take the steps set out below from the date of
the relevant increases onwards on each card.
Putting things right
To put things right, I intend to require NewDay Ltd to:
Rework Mr Ds Marbles credit card account so that from April 2018 onwards interest 
is only charged on the first £900 outstanding to reflect the fact that no credit limit 
increases should have been provided after this. Late payment and over-limit fees
should also be refunded from this date onwards. Any refund should be applied to
reduce Mr Ds outstanding balance.
Rework Mr Ds Aqua credit card account to reflect that from September 2018
onwards interest is only charged on the first £2,100 outstanding to reflect the fact that
no credit limit increases should have been provided after this. Late payment and
over-limit fees should also be refunded from this date onwards. Any refund should be
applied to reduce Mr Ds outstanding balance.
Check for any periods when Mr Ds payment would have been enough to clear his
balance on either account, and if this is the case, they should pay 8% simple interest
to Mr D on any periods he would have been in credit up until the date he would have
owed money on the accounts again.
Review Mr Ds repayment arrangements following the above  ensuring they treat
him fairly and sympathetically where required.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file in relation to the Marbles
account limit being increased after April 2018.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file in relation to the Aqua
account limit being increased after September 2018.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. 
NewDay didnt provide any further information for me to consider by the deadline Id set. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr D accepted my decision and NewDay didnt add anything further for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part. 
To put things right, I require NewDay Ltd to:
Rework Mr Ds Marbles credit card account so that from April 2018 onwards interest 
is only charged on the first £900 outstanding to reflect the fact that no credit limit 
increases should have been provided after this. Late payment and over-limit fees
should also be refunded from this date onwards. Any refund should be applied to
reduce Mr Ds outstanding balance.
Rework Mr Ds Aqua credit card account to reflect that from September 2018
onwards interest is only charged on the first £2,100 outstanding to reflect the fact that
no credit limit increases should have been provided after this. Late payment and
over-limit fees should also be refunded from this date onwards. Any refund should be
applied to reduce Mr Ds outstanding balance.
Check for any periods when Mr Ds payment would have been enough to clear his
balance on either account, and if this is the case, they should pay 8% simple interest
to Mr D on any periods he would have been in credit up until the date he would have
owed money on the accounts again.
Review Mr Ds repayment arrangements following the above  ensuring they treat
him fairly and sympathetically where required.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file in relation to the Marbles
account limit being increased after April 2018.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file in relation to the Aqua
account limit being increased after September 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman