DRN-3189848
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly declined 
a claim for repairs to a leaking pipe at his home.
What happened
Mr D first discovered the leak when water started flooding his front garden and driveway in 
April 2021. He got in touch with a plumbing company hed used before and he also 
contacted his buildings and contents insurer, Lloyds.
Lloyds sent contractors out to investigate the issue. The contractors told Mr D theyd only 
repair the damaged section of the pipe and theyd join that on to the existing pipework.
Mr D wasnt happy with this solution, as the company hed spoken to had said theyd replace 
the whole pipe. Mr D therefore told Lloyds contractors to leave and instructed the company 
of his choice to carry out the work, which they did.
Lloyds declined the claim. It said there was no evidence of accidental damage, and that 
there was an exclusion in the policy that says wear and tear wasnt covered. 
Mr D disagreed with Lloyds response and made a complaint. Lloyds didnt uphold the 
complaint and reiterated that the damage wasnt covered. It added that Mr D hadnt given 
Lloyds contractors a chance to conduct a proper assessment of the problem, by sending 
them off site before theyd located the leak. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr D referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the issues and ultimately didnt think Lloyds had acted unreasonably in declining 
the claim for the reasons it did. Mr D didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the 
complaint has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint largely for the same reasons given 
by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds policy covers Accidental damage to services. Accidental damage is defined in the 
policy as An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside 
force and is not expected and not deliberate. 
Whilst its not in dispute that there was physical damage to the pipe, which was unexpected 
and not deliberate, Im not persuaded that the damage was caused suddenly by an outside 
force, though I accept it may have happened suddenly or been discovered suddenly.
I say this because, from the information available, theres no evidence of what Id consider to 
be an outside force causing the damage to the pipe. And the policy says the damage has to 
have been caused suddenly  so its important that I consider the cause of the damage, 
which the evidence shows is likely to have been the age and gradual deterioration of the 
pipe, not an outside force.
Mr D says the damage was caused suddenly by the force of the water pressure breaking 
through the pipe. But I dont agree. I dont consider that the force of the water pushing 
through the pipe wouldve caused damage if the pipework hadnt been brittle and 
galvanised as Mr Ds contractors said it was. So I dont think the damage was caused 
suddenly by the force of the water.
I know this outcome will be disappointing for Mr D. But insurance policies arent designed to 
cover everything that could go wrong. And in this case, the damage doesnt meet the 
definition required under the policy. It follows therefore that I cant say Lloyds has declined 
the claim unfairly on the grounds it did. So Im afraid I wont be asking Lloyds to reconsider 
the claim or reimburse Mr D for the repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman