DRN-3369280
The complaint
Miss W says Lendable Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Lendable provided the following loan to Miss W:
Date 
takenAmount 
receivedTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
16/1/2020 £6,000 42 months £250.07 £10,657.79 outstanding
Miss W mainly said that the loan Lendable provided was too expensive and she cant afford 
the repayments. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ws complaint. In brief summary, she thought 
Lendable needed to do more in-depth checks before it approved this loan. She said the 
credit report Lendable obtained showed Miss W had credit card debt that wasnt being 
cleared and that she was paying more than 25% of her income on debt  which our 
adjudicator felt made this loan unsustainable for her. 
So our adjudicator upheld Miss Ws complaint.
Lendable disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that our adjudicator hadnt 
taken into account that the loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, Miss W 
said she would use the loan to repay other debt. Lendable said that using the loan this way 
couldve allowed Miss W to repay all of her outstanding credit commitments seen on the 
credit report it obtained and left Miss W better off by around £178 per month. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As things stand, Ive reached a different conclusion to our adjudicator and Im currently 
planning not to uphold her complaint. I appreciate this isnt the outcome she was hoping for 
but I hope that setting out my reasons will help to explain why this isnt a complaint I think 
I can fairly uphold. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Lendable told us that when assessing Miss Ws loan application it relied substantially on the 
information automatically reported by banks to credit reference agencies as this means its 
reliable. This included information about the money being paid into and out of Miss Ws 
current accounts to see if this was consistent with information Miss W had provided about 
her income. It also allowed Lendable to gain an understanding of Miss Ws credit history and 
its credit checks showed her existing credit commitments.
Lendable said it was able to verify a minimum monthly income amount of £1,428 for Miss W 
electronically, using industry-standard tools. Lendable hasnt provided much more 
information about the details of its affordability assessment so I dont know what exact 
figures it relied on when it made its lending decision. And I think our adjudicator was correct 
in saying that, regardless of whether the loan looked like it should be affordable, its checks 
werent proportionate. This was a substantial loan that Miss W was signing up to pay for the 
next three and a half years so Lendable needed to be satisfied that she would be able to 
make the loan repayments sustainably over the whole loan term. Lendable could see that 
whilst the bulk of Miss Ws outstanding debt was her mortgage, she had some money 
problems in the past. 
And I think Lendable shouldve been concerned to see that the bulk of Miss Ws revolving 
credit debt was a credit card that she had run up close to its £2,750 credit limit over the 
course of the previous eight months, mostly making only what look like minimum monthly 
repayments throughout this period. It was also evident that Miss W had relied to some extent 
on using the card for cash advances  which is a particularly expensive way to obtain 
spending money.
Given the information on the credit report it saw, I think Lendable shouldve done more in-
depth checks to ensure it had a proper understanding Miss Ws overall financial situation so 
it could be satisfied this loan wouldnt be detrimental to her. 
This means I need to look at what better checks would most likely have shown Lendable. 
To do this I have reviewed Miss Ws bank statements from the three months prior to her 
application. Im grateful to Miss W for providing these as it didnt feel fair to make a 
decision not to uphold her complaint without first checking to see if she had other 
information that might lead me to a different outcome. The bank statements show a number of transfers to and from another bank account for 
which I do not have statements. So it is hard to understand what Miss Ws actual 
disposable income was just based on what I've seen. But from what I can see, Miss W 
appears to have been operating the account well  there were mostly credit balances 
(often into four figures) and she earned some credit interest. I cant see any of the 
indicators of financial duress that would typically suggest additional borrowing might not be 
sustainable, for example, Miss W rarely went overdrawn and never by a substantial 
amount, she didnt appear to be paying payday loans or multiple credit cards. She seemed 
on the whole to be managing her debt well. Her balance to limit ratio was just 87% - so 
she had a reasonable amount of unused available credit. 
It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  
and sometimes even an impaired credit history. These wouldnt necessarily be fair 
reasons not to lend.
All in all, I cant fairly conclude that better checks would have led Lendable to make a 
different lending decision.
I think theres a further reason for me not to uphold this complaint. Ive carefully considered 
that our adjudicator thought that the information Lendable had in front of it was enough for it 
to have realised that this loan shouldnt have been provided. But I havent seen enough to be 
able to say that the amount of debt she had, or how she was managing it, should have led 
Lendable to decline her loan application. This is because it seems Miss W had requested 
this loan from Lendable to consolidate her existing debt and the loan would have allowed her 
to clear all the unsecured loan and revolving credit debt that it saw on the credit report it 
obtained  plus leave some extra money available for spending. I think that wouldve 
seemed a plausible reason to borrow and a reasonable use of the money. In these 
circumstances, Lendable was reasonably entitled to take a view that this suggested Miss W 
was borrowing specifically to restructure her debt and help her manage her finances more 
responsibly  and it looked like she ought to be able to afford to do that on the figures it 
worked out. 
In particular, she couldve saved on credit card interest as the minimum monthly repayments 
she was often making would have added very significantly to the long term cost of that credit 
 repayments at that level are insufficient to make any meaningful inroads into card 
balances.  Plus I think its fair to say she couldve been better off on a day to day basis 
paying Lendables loan instead of making repayments to the accounts the loan couldve 
consolidated. 
The credit checks Lendable carried out showed that Miss W wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. She had no active county 
court judgements registered and no recent defaults on her record. 
Miss W says Lendable shouldve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to 
her. But I think its fair to say that information Lendable had gathered, and all the information 
Id expect it to have found out before lending, tends to suggest that Miss W seemed to be 
managing her money without any particular signs that she had a serious debt problem. As 
things stand, this leads me to conclude that I havent seen enough to say that Lendable 
shouldnt have lent this loan. Miss W has complained that the interest on the loan has made it hard for her to afford the 
repayments. I think there was a large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can 
appreciate that Miss W might now feel the loan was unaffordable for her. But the loan 
documents set out the terms and the amount of interest payable. Miss W chose to apply for 
this loan and she had to actively engage in the loan application process. The total amount 
she was signing up to repay over the contractual loan term, including interest, was set out 
and the agreement showed the number and amount of the payments she would need to 
make. 
Taking everything into account, I think Miss W was aware she was taking a high cost loan on 
terms she seemed happy to agree to at the time. I dont think Lendable shouldve had any 
reason to think that Miss W wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the loan and it went ahead 
only when it had provided information explaining the main loan costs and Miss W said she 
wanted to proceed. 
I accept that Miss Ws actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information Lendable obtained. But in order to uphold 
this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont 
think that Lendable did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Miss W. And I havent 
seen enough to make me think that Lendable acted towards Miss W in any other way that 
wasnt fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss W and Im sorry. 
But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss W still feels that the loan was lent irresponsibly and that she cannot afford the 
repayments. 
I have heard nothing further from Lendable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Miss W for responding to my provisional decision. As the deadline for responses has 
now passed I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss W feels strongly about what happened and she holds a different view 
to me. I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been 
said, including her comments in response to my provisional decision. Miss W hasnt provided 
me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. Id already 
considered the main points she has mentioned above when thinking about my provisional 
decision and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the outcome. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. I can understand that Miss W is disappointed in the outcome of her complaint but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
I expect Lendable to treat Miss W positively and sympathetically if she is continuing to 
experience financial difficulty. I would encourage Miss W to provide details of her financial 
situation to Lendable if she still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. And if 
Miss W would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if she 
gives us a call. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman