DRN-2381880
The complaint
Mrs B complains, on behalf of herself and Mr B, that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) didnt consider a critical illness claim for Mr B. She also complains that Aviva didnt 
provide Mr B with the total permanent disablement (TPD) cover they applied for.
What happened
In May 2002 Mr and Mrs B took out a joint, decreasing term, mortgage life assurance policy 
with integrated critical illness and TPD cover with Aviva. Aviva were trading as Norwich 
Union Linked Life Assurance Limited at this time, but for ease, in my decision Ill simply refer 
to the actions and decisions of Aviva. Mrs B works for a financial broker and she applied for 
the policy through her own firm. 
Sadly, in December 2018 Mr B was rushed to hospital with heart failure. Mrs B contacted 
Aviva to explain shed like to make a claim on the policy under either the critical illness cover 
or the TPD cover because Mr B couldnt do his job. Aviva told her that Mr Bs heart failure 
was not a specified illness under the policy, so she couldnt claim for this. Aviva also told 
Mrs B that Mr B only had TPD cover assessed against the activities of daily living definition, 
not against his own occupation.
Mrs B believed shed applied for TPD cover on an own occupation basis for both her and her 
husband when she took the policy out. When she received the policy documentation after 
the policy went live, she noticed Mr B had only been given TPD cover based on the activities 
of daily living definition. Mrs B then contacted Aviva on 7 June 2002 to ask it to fix this and 
the notes on her works system suggest someone at Aviva was sorting it. On 18 June 2002, 
a colleague at the broker firm returned the policy documentation to Aviva as incorrect. 
Mrs B said she never heard back from Aviva, but she understood the error had been fixed 
because her premiums didnt decrease after this time. 
Mrs B said she thought Mr B had own occupation TPD cover and was concerned to find he 
did not when she called in 2018. Mrs B felt Aviva had acted unreasonably in not responding 
to her back in 2002 when she asked for the policy to be amended. So, she complained. 
Mrs B also complained about the fact Mr Bs critical illness wasnt covered by the policy. 
Aviva didnt uphold these complaint points. Aviva also clarified that although Mr B had had 
an angioplasty (a procedure that is potentially covered by the policy), he still hadnt met the 
definition required in the policy. Aviva said the type of TPD cover Mr B had was made clear 
in the policy documentation. 
Mrs B was left unhappy with Avivas response. So, Mr and Mrs B asked our service to look 
into her complaint.
After reviewing all of the evidence and the rules that set out what complaints our service can 
consider, our investigator ultimately felt that the TPD complaint had been brought to us out 
of time. So, they said we couldnt decide on the merits of this. They also said that Aviva had 
correctly advised that Mr Bs illness was not a specified critical illness covered by the policy.
Mrs B disagreed, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide whether we can look at this complaint, Ive also considered the rules under which 
the Financial Ombudsman Service operates, which are known as the Dispute Resolution 
Rules (DISP) rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook.
Im genuinely sorry to hear about Mr Bs illness and the continuing impact this is having on 
both Mr and Mrs B. Id also like to reassure them Ive carefully considered all of the evidence 
before arriving at my decision.
The lack of own occupation TPD cover
DISP 2.8.2 puts a number of time limits on complaints. It says our service cant consider a 
complaint if its referred more than six years after the event, or if its later than this, more 
than three years from the date when the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) that they had cause to complain. Thats unless the business consents 
or the late referral was as a result of exceptional circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B are complaining about the TPD terms offered to them when they took out the 
policy in 2002. So, this was clearly more than six years ago.
But Mrs B said they didnt realise Mr B didnt have own occupation cover until she tried to 
make a claim in late 2018. Yet Aviva think Mr and Mrs B ought to have known they had 
cause to complain back in 2002.
The evidence shows that Mrs B knew Mr B hadnt been offered own occupation cover 
initially, as she followed this up with Aviva. But Mrs B never received a reply to confirm this 
had been changed or any paperwork to show this. 
Mrs Bs account is that the lack of change in her premiums led her to believe things had 
been fixed. I think Mrs Bs point here is that she understood the premium quote shed 
received was for own occupation TPD cover for both her and Mr B  so when nothing 
changed in cost, she assumed this was the cover they then had. But Im not persuaded this 
was a reasonable assumption to make. The documentation from Aviva, that Mrs B was sent 
after the policy started, had that same premium quoted for TPD cover against the activities 
of daily work condition for Mr B. But even if it didnt, I still dont think its reasonable to 
assume, purely on the basis that there were no changes in cost, that the policy had been 
adjusted. 
Taking all of this into account, Im of the view Mr and Mrs B ought reasonably to have known 
the policy had not been amended, and that they therefore had cause to complain, back in 
2002. 
Aviva havent agreed our service can look into this complaint. So, Ive gone on to consider if 
there are any exceptional circumstances that explain why Mr and Mrs B were prevented 
from bringing the complaint sooner. Mrs B has provided details of personal difficulties she 
was experiencing back in 2002 and having reviewed what shes told us I dont doubt that this 
was a very difficult time for her. But these circumstances, however difficult, do not sufficiently 
explain why she did not raise any concerns with Aviva or our service in the 16 years that 
followed.For all of these reasons, I do not think that Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the lack of own 
occupation TPD cover, or Avivas response to their requests to amend this, fall within the 
time limits outlined in DISP. So, whilst I appreciate this will be a significant disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs B, I dont think this part of their complaint is something our service can look into.
Critical illness cover
Mr and Mrs B have never formally submitted a critical illness claim. But thats because Aviva 
advised Mrs B that Mr Bs condition wasnt covered by the policy. 
I understand that Mrs B told Aviva Mr B had heart failure and that hed had an angioplasty in 
relation to a blockage in one artery. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. There are four conditions related to 
heart or coronary matters. The only one that could have applied is:
Heart Attack: The death of a portion of the heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood 
supply as evidenced by an episode of typical chest pain, new electrocardiograph changes 
and the elevation of cardiac enzymes. The evidence must be consistent with the diagnosis of 
heart attack.
Heart Valve Replacement or Repair: The undergoing of open-heart surgery from medical 
necessity to replace or repair one or more heart valves.
Coronary Angioplasty: The undergoing of balloon angioplasty on the advice of a Consultant 
Cardiologist to correct narrowing or blockage of at least 70% in each of two or more 
coronary arteries. 
Coronary Artery By-Pass Surgery: The undergoing of open heart surgery on the advice of a 
Consultant Cardiologist to correct the narrowing or blockage of one or more coronary 
arteries with by-pass grafts but excluding balloon angioplasty, laser relief or any other 
procedure, unless specifically agreed to under Coronary Angioplasty. 
And based on the information Mrs B gave Aviva, I think the advice it gave her regarding 
there not being a valid claim was correct. I also note it provided her with a copy of the critical 
illnesses covered at this stage for her reference such that she could check this herself. 
Given this, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong here.
Mrs B has told us she thinks Mr Bs procedures were serious that they should be covered 
under the policy. I dont doubt that Mr Bs illness was and continues to be very serious. 
But critical illness cover doesnt cover all critical illnesses, only those specified in the policy 
terms and conditions.
Mrs B has also told us she doesnt fully understand the technical terms in Mr Bs medical 
paperwork so she thought Aviva should write to the consultant to check if there is claim. 
I would expect a business to make proportionate, reasonable enquiries when investigating 
any claim. But if Mr and Mrs B feel that there is payable claim here, they also have a 
responsibility to provide evidence to support this. And based on the information provided to 
Aviva, I dont think it had any reason to believe there was a claim such that this warranted 
further checks.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is:Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about Mr Bs TPD cover have been brought to our service 
out of time. 
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Mr Bs critical illness cover. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman