DRN-3801120
The complaint
Mr T complains about Nationwide Building Societys charges for ongoing advice. He says he 
didnt receive any advice for several years; that the advice he received in September 2021 
wasnt appropriate; that Nationwide didnt act on his instruction to opt out of the fees; and 
that Nationwides advice about amalgamating his portfolios was unclear. 
He wants Nationwide to refund at least 50% of its fees for ongoing advice charged from 
February 2018 to October 2021, and for it to refund all of its ongoing advice fees from 
November 2021 to date.
What happened
Mr T sought advice from Nationwide in September 2009. He invested £40,000 in a stocks 
and shares ISA and a unit trust and open-ended investment company (OEIC) portfolio. 
Mr T didnt pay a separate fee for advice, but Nationwide received commission payments 
from the portfolio provider.
In 2015 Mr T sought further advice from Nationwide. He invested £60,000. The commission-
based arrangement was no longer permitted by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), so 
a second, separate portfolio was set up. Mr T paid an initial advice fee and there was an 
ongoing advice fee chargeable.
In 2016 Mr T invested a further £50,000 in the second portfolio and asked to opt out of the 
ongoing advice service for this portfolio.
Mr T says that in 2018 he added more money, and he was told the commission charges for 
his first portfolio would stop in 2020.
In September 2021, following receipt of a letter from Nationwide telling him that he held 
funds which were no longer on its approved list, Mr T agreed to a review of his 
investments. Nationwide recommended several fund switches, but Mr T didnt agree. He 
said the recommendation was unattractive and unacceptable.
Mr T put forward his own proposals, but he said Nationwide wouldnt implement his 
instructions.
Nationwide said that, following the 2009 investment, it was Mr Ts responsibility to make 
contact with it if he wanted to review his investments. It said it didnt have any record to show 
that Mr T had asked to opt out of the ongoing advice charges for his first portfolio. It said it 
had told Mr T that some of his funds had been removed from its approved list and that it 
asked him to make contact to review his investments. It said it didnt have any record to 
show that Mr T had asked it for more information about these funds, until he agreed to a 
review in September 2021. It said it made investment recommendations in line with Mr Ts 
agreed objectives and attitude to risk and had pointed out the potential tax implications. It 
said Mr T was free to decline its advice, and that he had access to the investment platform to 
implement his own proposals. It did apologise for the lack of clarity given around the need for 
Mr Ts portfolios to be amalgamated and it paid him £150 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude Nationwide had acted incorrectly and thought it had treated Mr T fairly in paying 
him £150.
Mr T didnt agree. He clarified some of the detail of what had happened. And he said that 
Nationwide didnt make him aware of the particularly high capital gains tax (CGT) liability 
that would have resulted if hed agreed to its 2021 recommendations; and that he was still 
paying advisor charges after his portfolios were merged in March 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Ive set out the reasons why using sub-headings for ease. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
2009 portfolio
The financial planning report in September 2009 says:
The Investor Portfolio Service looks after the administration of the stocks and shares ISA 
and Unit Trust/OEICs that Ive recommended. The annual fee for this service is typically 
0.25% each year. This is covered by the annual management charge for the individual 
funds, and not in addition to it. We do not provide an advised fund switching service or an 
ongoing portfolio review service. 
Nationwide was receiving commission for the cost of it administering the portfolio. Im 
satisfied that there was no obligation on Nationwide to review Mr Ts portfolio on an on-going 
basis. It was obliged to tell Mr T if any of the funds he held were no longer recommended by 
its investment committee. And Mr T could have asked for an appointment with a financial 
planning manager at any time to review his investments. Im satisfied that Nationwide 
provided the agreed service in return for the commission payments it received.
2015 portfolio
Mr T paid a separate fee for the advice he received in 2015. (And Nationwide did not receive 
commission for this portfolio).
Nationwides suitability letter and financial planning report set out the cost of the initial advice 
and the platform charge. It also gave details of its ongoing service charge. It summarised the ongoing service, which included a full annual review and report, and set out that the fee was 
0.5% each year.
Under the heading Actions agreed, the report said, You have decided to go ahead with all 
my recommendations, as detailed in this letter. In agreeing to go ahead, I find that Mr T 
agreed to the 0.5% ongoing service charge.
But in January 2016, Mr T opted out of the ongoing service charge. This was within a year of 
the portfolio being set up, so Mr T wouldnt have received an annual review and report 
before he opted out of the ongoing advice service.
Im satisfied that, whilst Mr T had opted out of the ongoing service charge for his second 
portfolio, for his first portfolio Nationwide continued to receive commission. In return it kept 
Mr T informed of any of his funds which were no longer recommended by its investment 
committee, and he could have asked for a review of his first portfolio at any time for no 
additional charge.
2016 investment
Mr T sought further advice from Nationwide in 2016 and paid an initial advice fee.
2021 recommendations
Im satisfied that Nationwide wrote to Mr T on three occasions between August 2019 and 
August 2021 to tell him he held some funds, in his first portfolio, which were no longer 
performing as it expected. And to recommend he arranged a review of his investments. 
Nationwide doesnt have a record of Mr T contacting it to discuss this, until he requested a 
review which took place in September 2021, by phone and email. Nationwide agreed to 
review both his portfolios, although Mr T wasnt paying for on-going advice for his second 
portfolio. Nationwide recommended several fund switches because several of the funds held 
by Mr T were no longer recommended by it as suitable for his agreed investment objectives 
and risk profile.
I appreciate Mr T was surprised to find out that a large number of the funds he held were no 
longer on Nationwides recommended list. But Im satisfied that Nationwide had provided him 
with a warning about the risk of continuing to hold these funds in his first portfolio. And 
I dont find it had an obligation to warn him about the funds in his second portfolio  because 
he had opted out of receiving this on-going advice.
Mr T didnt agree to go ahead with Nationwides recommendations because he was 
concerned about the CGT liability he would incur. I find Nationwides letter setting out its 
recommendations was reasonably clear that it didnt offer tax advice. And Im satisfied it 
included an appropriate warning that the tax implications of the recommendation were 
something Mr T should think about. It said:
I recommend that you seek independent tax advice if you are concerned about your liability 
to Capital Gains Tax as a result of transferring and switching investment funds.
I dont find it was inappropriate for Nationwide to recommend investment transactions that 
resulted in a possible tax liability, even though the liability in Mr Ts case was relatively high. 
It made it reasonably clear that it was only obliged to set out its recommendations to ensure 
the portfolio remained suitable for Mr Ts needs and that it couldnt comment on the tax 
implications of its proposals, although Im satisfied it made Mr T aware of a possible tax 
liability.It's understandable why Mr T didnt want to incur a liability, and he was able to choose not to 
go ahead with the recommendations. 
Mr T complained that Nationwide wouldnt implement his own proposals. But I dont find it 
unreasonable that Nationwide couldnt place investment transactions that it didnt 
recommend. And Mr T had access to the investment platform, to place deals if he wanted to.
Mr T says Nationwides proposals would have put him at a financial disadvantage, as 
illustrated by Nationwides own report. But Im satisfied Nationwides recommendations 
ensured its proposed investment would meet Mr Ts investment objective and his attitude to 
risk. Its report explained there was no guarantee that the new funds would provide the 
potential for a better return than the currently held funds. But this didnt make them 
unsuitable.
Amalgamation of portfolios
I find that, as part of the review in 2021, Mr T agreed to the portfolios being merged and at 
this point all his investments were held in non-commission-based funds. This was necessary 
following the FCAs retail distribution review which no longer allowed Nationwide to earn 
commission from the funds.
Im pleased Nationwide accepted there was some confusion about the date commission 
would be switched off and Im satisfied that its payment of £150 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont find Nationwide is obliged to refund any of its charges 
or pay Mr T any additional compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman