DRN-3836453
The complaint
Mr A has a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). He complains about the way 
it has been managed.
What happened
In early 2018 Mr A took out a repayment mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage was for 
£360,000 plus fees over a 22-year term.
Mr A missed two mortgage payments in January and February 2020. Barclays then agreed 
to give him two coronavirus mortgage payment deferrals between June and August 2020, 
and September to November 2020. Later he agreed with Barclays that hed only make 
interest payments on the account between the end of February 2021 and July 2021. While 
the payments missed during the payment deferrals are not to be treated as arrears, the 
amounts underpaid during the interest only payment concession are.
Mr A says that the financial difficulties he experienced in 2020 and 2021 were temporary  
they stemmed from losing his job around the time of the covid-19 pandemic and his marriage 
breaking down.
Towards the end of 2021 Mr A looked at options to get the best interest rate on his mortgage 
when his fixed interest rate product ended in February 2022. In October 2021, Barclays 
mistakenly told him that he could get a new interest rate product despite the arrears on his 
account. But in November 2021 Barclays said Mr A needed to clear the arrears before he did 
that. Barclays offered Mr A £150 for its mistake.
Mr A is unhappy that as a result of the arrears he was unable to get another fixed interest 
rate product. He told us that instead he was offered a variable rate mortgage that meant he 
had significantly larger mortgage payments  something he couldnt afford.
Mr A also thought it was unfair that his mortgage was recorded on his credit file as being in 
arrears instead of a payment arrangement. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said that Mr As financial situation had 
improved in late 2021. She could see that Mr A had been making full monthly payments 
since September 2021. So she said Barclays should help Mr A repay the arrears that had 
built up on his account by capitalising the arrears. She also thought that Barclays should 
have discussed capitalising the arrears with Mr A when hed approached them about that in 
December 2021. She thought that if that had happened Mr A wouldve been eligible to renew 
the interest rate product on his mortgage in early 2022 when his fixed rate product ended. 
So she said Barclays should backdate a fixed interest rate product for Mr A to apply from 
when his fixed rate product ended in early 2022.
Mr A also complained that Barclays recorded adverse information on this credit file in 
relation to the missed payments. Our investigator didnt think Barclays had made a mistake 
about that as she thought the information it recorded on his credit file was a true and 
accurate description of the operation of his account. But she thought that the £150 
compensation Barclays had offered wasnt enough. She thought it should increase the 
compensation to £300.
Recently Barclays agreed to increase the compensation to £300 but it didnt agree with our 
investigator about capitalising the arrears on the mortgage, so this complaint has been 
passed on to me to decide. Barclays said that Mr A refused to discuss his income and 
expenditure (I&E) with it in December 2021. So it wasnt able to consider the right options 
for Mr A. It also said that capitalising arrears wasnt an option available to the adviser 
handling the December 2021 phone call as it was a last resort that was only available in 
exceptional circumstances to customers after it had been considered by an internal 
stakeholder panel. So it didnt think it did anything wrong at that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
The issue at the heart of this complaint now is whether Barclays should have capitalised the 
arrears on Mr As mortgage in December 2021 as he wanted. Barclays said that 
capitalisation was only available in exceptional circumstances and as Mr A didnt complete 
an I&E assessment, it wasnt in a position to say that this was the right outcome for him. It 
said it had a responsibility to ensure that Mr A could afford his mortgage  especially as 
capitalisation would increase the monthly payments - and was conscious that hed moved 
out of the mortgaged property by December 2021 as his marriage had broken down. So 
Mr A was paying the mortgage and for accommodation for himself at another address. In the 
circumstances it needed to consider Mr As outgoings. It also told us that it would expect 
arrears to be repaid in the shortest time possible as capitalising Mr As arrears would mean 
that they were cleared over a longer period of time and would come at a higher cost to him.
I appreciate the points Barclays has made, and dont dispute them in principle. But I think 
Barclays could have handled the phone calls it had with Mr A in December 2021 much 
better. Ive considered the notes of its contact with Mr A at this time. Theyre clear that Mr A 
was very upset and stressed by his situation and felt that capitalisation (something he was 
adamant Barclays did have available) was the only solution for him. Mr A was categorically 
told that Barclays wouldnt do that. That was the context in which he didnt go through his 
I&E with Barclays  Mr A told Barclays he was working and had no time to complete the I&E. 
I think that Mr A should have completed the I&E assessment around that time. In order for 
Barclays to help him it needed Mr A to engage meaningfully with it about his circumstances, 
and supply any reasonable evidence that Barclays needed to understand his I&E.
However, I think that Mr A would have done that if Barclays had told him that capitalisation 
was an option in December 2021. Capitalisation was an option available to Barclays under 
the rules of mortgage regulation and the regulators guidance and Mr A - a professional in 
the financial services industry - knew that. That doesnt mean that Barclays had to capitalise 
Mr As arrears on request. But it should have considered whether doing so was the most 
appropriate way of assisting him rather than simply saying it couldnt be done. So I can 
understand why he was frustrated when he was told it wasnt possible on that phone call  
so frustrated that Mr A said he didnt have the time to complete the I&E assessment.
Barclays has suggested that Mr A wouldnt have been able to afford to capitalise the 
mortgage, but it hasnt provided us with any evidence to support that. While capitalisation would have increased the monthly payments, Ive also borne in mind that the arrears were 
relatively small and there was still around 18 years left on the term. So I dont think the 
impact would have been very substantial. And I also think its relevant that capitalisation 
would have made Mr A eligible for a new interest rate - but retaining the arrears on the 
account would not. As a result, its very likely that Mr As mortgage would soon have become 
more expensive if Barclays didnt agree to capitalise the arrears. Ive not seen any evidence 
that Barclays considered any of these points at the time.
I think its likely that had Mr A completed an I&E assessment in December 2021 Barclays 
would have found (even if it had needed to take the matter to a stakeholder panel) that he 
could afford to capitalise his mortgage. I say that because he maintained his contractual 
monthly payments (CMPs) from August until December 2021. He was even able to meet 
the CMP in February & March 2022 when his CMP had increased substantially  by 
approximately £400. 
For completeness I think its worth saying here that Barclays has said capitalisation is a last 
resort option. I dont agree about that. Its one of the options the regulator says is available to 
assist a borrower with a payment shortfall. As with all the options, there are advantages and 
disadvantages and its not right for every borrower or every situation. But its something that 
Barclays should have given consideration to. In any case, I dont think the other options it 
has recently suggested would have been more suitable for Mr A in December 2021. For 
instance, I dont think extending the term of the mortgage would have been suitable for Mr A 
given his age and the length of the existing term. Im also conscious that Mr A had made use 
of temporary forbearance measures available to him by December 2021, and that he was 
looking for a long-term solution to help him clear the arrears and be eligible for a new fixed 
term interest rate product. 
Barclays also says that the adviser Barclays spoke to wasnt able to authorise capitalisation 
 only its stakeholder panel could do that. But I dont think thats relevant to my view of 
whats fair and reasonable. Ive explained why capitalisation was an option Barclays should 
have taken into account and why I think it would have been the fair way to support Mr A in 
these particular circumstances. Barclays might have chosen to organise its business in such 
a way as to restrict its ability to offer the full range of forbearance options set out in the 
regulations. Its a matter for Barclays how it chooses to organise its business. That might 
explain why Barclays acted in the way it did  but it doesnt make it fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances of this case.
I also think Barclays needed to consider the financial situation Mr A would be in after his 
fixed rate product ended in January 2022. As he wasnt able to get a new fixed rate interest 
product Mr A went on to Barclays standard variable rate. Barclays notes of its contact with 
Mr A show that as early as February 2022 he told it that he didnt think he would be able to 
afford his monthly payments on that rate after his fixed rate product expired in January 2022. 
But I cant see that it did anything other than give Mr A some temporary breathing space as 
a result of that. I think that was another opportunity for Barclays to support Mr A in what it 
knew was a very difficult time for him. Instead Barclays went on to take legal action against 
Mr A in relation to the mortgage  something that was definitely a last resort option for 
Barclays.
Mr A has told us that the interest rate on his mortgage was fixed at 1.57% before the end of 
January 2022. As things stand today that interest rate is more than 7.4%. Recently Mr A has 
told us that given the amount of time it has taken to resolve this complaint (including several 
periods in which we have had to chase Barclays for its response) and the fact that his 
mortgage payments have increased significantly over that period, he has taken steps to sell 
the mortgaged property. He says he feels he has been left with no choice but to do this. He 
complains about the profound impact of that on him and his family - he has talked about his wife and children being evicted from their home. In previous conversations Mr A told our 
investigator that he was committed to his family staying in the mortgaged property  for their 
benefit and so that he could continue to live near them.
conclusion 
Bearing in mind everything thats been said and provided on this case, I think Barclays 
should have done more to support Mr A. In particular, I think it should have discussed 
capitalising the arrears with him when he spoke to Barclays about that in December 2021. I 
think that if that had happened Mr A wouldve been able to capitalise his arrears and go on 
to renew the interest rate product on his mortgage in early 2022 when his fixed rate product 
ended. 
So I think Barclays should rework Mr As mortgage as if a five-year fixed interest rate (the 
lowest interest rate that he wouldve been able to get that that time) had applied from 
February 2022, taking into account any fees he wouldve incurred getting that product. Mr A 
had talked about getting a five-year fixed interest rate product when he approached Barclays 
about that. Barclays should apply 8% simple interest to each overpayment Mr A has made 
towards his mortgage between February 2022 until the date of settlement as a result of the 
rework. 
Im conscious that a five-year fixed rate product is likely to have included an early repayment 
charge (ERC) that wouldve been payable if the mortgage is redeemed within the five-year 
period. Mr A has taken steps to sell the mortgaged property, so its very likely that the ERC 
will be payable when he redeems the mortgage. As Im satisfied that Mr A is only selling the 
mortgaged property because of Barclays actions and the impact of those actions on him, I 
think that if an ERC is payable when the mortgage is redeemed, Barclays should waive that 
ERC.
Ive also considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to award Mr A more 
compensation for what happened. I think it would. As said above, Im satisfied (for the 
reasons set out above) that Barclays mistakes in this complaint have had a significant 
impact on Mr A. Barclays was made aware of Mr As difficulties repaying his mortgage in a 
rising interest rate environment on a number of occasions, but (for the reasons set out 
above) it didnt do enough to support him. In particular, it didnt consider capitalising the 
arrears on his mortgage as it should. Im also conscious that Barclays delays responding to 
this complaint have added to the pressure Mr A has been under for some time. So I think 
Barclays should pay Mr A £800 compensation to reflect the impact of its actions on him.
Putting things right
I think that Barclays should put things right by carrying out the actions Ive set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
pay Mr A £800 compensation; and 
rework Mr As mortgage as if the arrears had been capitalised from 1 January 2022, 
and a five-year fixed rate (the lowest interest rate available in relation to the relevant 
loan to value) had been applied to the mortgage in February 2022.
Barclays should then re-calculate the mortgage using the payments Mr A actually made and 
the contractual monthly payment as it would have been based on that interest rate. If Mr A has missed any payments, in full or in part, between February 2022 and now the 
overpayments should be used to clear any resulting arrears and Mr As credit file should be 
revised accordingly. Barclays should then give Mr A the choice of either using the 
overpayments to reduce the mortgage month by month, or having the overpayments 
refunded to him. If Mr A chooses the refund option, Barclays should add simple annual 
interest of 8% running from the date of each monthly payment to date of refund. And in 
either case, Barclays can offset any product fee associated with the interest rate from the 
refund.
Barclays should then write to Mr A setting out his revised balance and monthly payment, 
based on the backdated interest rate for the rest of the five-year fixed rate period.
If Barclays deducts income tax from the 8% interest element of my award (if applicable) it 
should provide him with a tax deduction certificate, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
If Mr A redeems his mortgage within the five-year fixed rate period Barclays should not apply 
any early repayment charge that would otherwise have been applicable with that product.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman