DRN-3611788
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a used car she acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services
(GB) Limited (BMWFS) is of unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs B is represented by a family member but Ill refer (generally) to everything thats been
said on her behalf as if Mrs B said it herself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mrs B got this car under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) she took out with BMWFS in 
June 2019. The car was about a year old with 11,000 miles on the clock. Mrs B had 
problems with water ingress and the supplying dealer tried to fix things - the car was taken 
back several times - but the issue wasnt resolved. In October 2021 Mrs B complained to 
BMWFS. She wanted to reject the car as electronics were failing and she was worried it was 
unsafe. She thought water mixing with electrical parts might create a fire hazard and the car 
smelt strongly of mould and damp which made it very unpleasant to travel any distance.
BMWFS agreed that Mrs B could reject the car in January 2022 and offered to refund the
deposit and pay £500 towards a new vehicle. Mrs B didnt think this was fair. Among other
things, she considered this didnt take account of equity shed built up and she felt it didnt
compensate her adequately for everything that happened.
BMWFS didnt think it should have to take account of any equity or refund any monthly
payments. It says the car had over 25,000 miles on the clock in January 2022 against an
annual allowance of 8,000 miles under the HPA. And this suggests Mrs B had reasonable
use of the car at that point, more than she anticipated when she took out the finance.
Mrs B referred the matter to our service. Our investigator thought the car probably had faults
present at the outset so it was fair that BMWFS agreed to take it back and refund the
deposit. He didnt think BMWFS should have to refund any monthly payments initially - given
the distance covered after supply. But, he was satisfied that being supplied with this faulty
car had a significant adverse impact on Mrs B. And he thought it was fair that BMWFS 
should pay £750 compensation - which should not have to be paid towards a new vehicle. 
The investigator recommended BMWFS should cancel the HPA, collect the car, refund the 
deposit plus interest, pay £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience and mark the 
HPA as settled on her credit file. 
BMWFS didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It thought the remedy offered  
including £500 compensation only  was sufficient. Mrs B also disagreed. She said she 
stopped using the car in September 2021 due to concerns about her own health and that of 
her baby. And she only drove it after that when absolutely necessary which has been
extremely stressful and inconvenient. Her baby has a heart condition and shes been unable
to use the car for transport to regular hospital appointments, for example. Mrs B supplied 
evidence from the odometer that showed 25,607 miles had accrued in February 2022. She 
thinks BMWFS should refund monthly payments from September 2021 and pay more 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced.
Our investigator considered the additional evidence. He accepted it was probably very
upsetting and inconvenient for Mrs B to have to deal with this faulty car. He remained of the 
view £750 is fair compensation for that. He was satisfied however that Mrs B probably hadnt 
used the car much since December 2021 due to faults present when it was supplied  she
travelled about 500 miles between December 2021 and February 2022. And he thought it
was reasonable for BMWFS to refund payments made from December 2021 until the car is
collected - in addition to his previous recommendations  to compensate Mrs B for loss of
use.
BMWFS didnt respond and the matter was passed to me for a decision. Having considered 
the evidence available, I was minded to uphold the complaint. My reasoning wasnt quite the 
same as the investigators - and I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome overall. 
So, I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and allow them to 
respond (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision 
on 8 July 2022. Ive set out what I decided provisionally and why below - and this forms part 
of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. And,
where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs B brings her complaint to our service because she acquired this car under a HPA. And
Im satisfied that BMWFS was required under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to
ensure (amongst other things) that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual circumstances. 
There appears to be no dispute that this car had ongoing issues caused by water ingress
which affected the electrics at times and resulted in the car having a most unpleasant smell. 
And BMWFS seems to accept the car was unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, so I 
dont need to make any further findings about that. 
BMWFS has offered to take the car back and refund the deposit - which seems fair in the 
circumstances. The parties disagree however about what else, if anything, BMWFS needs to 
do to put things right- and thats what Im looking at in this decision.
I think its likely Mrs B was caused a considerable amount of trouble and upset because she
was supplied with this faulty car. It looks as if she had to arrange for it to go back and forth to
the dealership for various repair attempts over a number of months. And Im satisfied that
must have been stressful, inconvenient and, no doubt, frustrating for her  especially when
the repairs didnt work. BMWFS offered to pay Mrs B £500 compensation towards a new car. 
So, I think it recognises she experienced significant distress and inconvenience here. But, 
having considered all of the circumstances carefully, Im minded to agree with our 
investigator that this offer doesnt go far enough. 
I say this because Im satisfied that Mrs B had genuine concerns about driving this car  
especially as time went by and repairs were attempted but the problems werent resolved. 
Paperwork from the dealer confirms that the car was leaking and it had heavy water deposits 
in both rear carpet areas and smelled. I can see a number of repair efforts were made - following guidance provided by the manufacturer (which suggests this was a known issue) - 
and some electrical parts also had to be replaced.
Mrs B has explained that she very worried about driving the car because she was concerned
that water mixing with electrics might be a safety hazard - and she also found it increasingly
difficult to drive because of an overwhelming mouldy, damp odour. I can see she was
expecting in 2021. I find it understandable that she found it particularly un-nerving and
unpleasant to drive a car with a noxious smell that she felt could go wrong at any time. And I
can see why this got worse after her baby arrived, given his health issues. Im satisfied that 
Mrs B likely experienced significant distress and inconvenience over many months because 
this car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. So, Im minded to agree with the 
investigator that BMWFS should pay £750 compensation to reflect this (which should not be 
conditional upon applying the funds towards a replacement car).
Ive also given some thought to the use Mrs B had of the car. Im satisfied she seems to
have been kept mobile in a loan car most of the time her car was off the road for repairs.
Theres no dispute that she was able to cover some 14,000 miles by January 2022 - I
appreciate Mrs B may well say this was done with some reluctance - because the car 
smelled and she was worried about safety. And Ive taken her distress and inconvenience 
into account in the compensation award above.
Mrs B says she stopped using the car in September 2021 and shed like all her monthly
payments refunded from then. Odometer readings - from job cards in August and December 
2021  show the car covered about 1,500 miles during this time. I think its right Mrs B 
should pay for the use she had of the car so Im not persuaded that I can reasonably require 
BMWFS to refund any monthly payments before December 2021. But, like the investigator, I 
think it looks as if the car wasnt used much after that - and this was probably due to the 
impact of faults present since the outset. I cant reasonably exclude the fact that Mrs B was 
able to travel about 500 miles or so between the middle of December 2021 and February 
2022, however. And I think its more likely than not shed stopped using the car  to all 
intents and purposes  by January 2022.
In these very specific circumstances, I dont think that was unreasonable. Im minded to find
it fair therefore for BMWFS to refund any monthly payments made from January 2022 in full
to reflect Mrs Bs loss of use (subject to Mrs B confirming that the mileage hasnt increased 
significantly since the last odometer reading of 25,607 miles). I realise BMWFS considers 
the mileage accrued already means Mrs B isnt entitled to a refund. It thinks she had fair use 
of the car because her contracted mileage was 8,000 a year and, taking this pro-rata at over 
600 miles a month, shed covered more than this distance by January 2022. I dont think its 
quite as simple as that however and Ill explain why.
Mrs B took out this finance over four years. I think she probably expected, at the outset, to
travel around a maximum of 32,000 miles during that time. And she would have been aware
that BMWFS would charge for the excess (under the terms of the HPA) if shed driven the
car further when the term ended. I dont think its out of the ordinary however for customers
to drive further in one given year than another. And, in my experience, lenders dont usually
hold customers to the annual mileage limit in each individual year - provided the mileage
accrued at the end of the term is within the agreed overall limit. So, in real terms, if Mrs B
travelled more than 8,000 miles a year in the first year or two but she hadnt covered more
than 32,000 miles at the end of four years, BMWFS wouldnt have charged her for any
excess.
BMWFS has accepted that Mrs B should be allowed the reject this car - due to no fault
of hers  as a result of quality issues. This means its going back sooner than either party
anticipated at the outset. And I think the crux of this issue is whether Mrs B was able to usethe car in the way she reasonably expected during the time she had it. For the reasons Ive
set out, I dont think Mrs B was able to use this car as much as she otherwise would have
because it was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. And Im minded to find it is fair
and reasonable overall for BMWFS to refund monthly payments to reflect that lost use as
outlined above.
I realise Mrs B feels she should have a bigger refund as theres some equity in the car due
to the payments she made towards the finance. Im not persuaded thats reasonable,
however. Im satisfied she was required to pay for the car under the terms of the HPA and
theres nothing in that agreement to entitle her to equity in the way she suggests. So I cant
reasonably find BMWFS should make a further refund on those grounds or do anything else. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further
comments or new evidence by 22 July 2022. I explained that I would review all the available 
evidence after that and make my final decision.
BMWFS accepted my provisional decision, subject to confirmation of the cars up to date 
mileage. I didnt think that was unreasonable and we asked Mrs B for the mileage but she 
was away and unable to provide this. I checked the cars MOT history and noted that 26,696 
miles were recorded at the last MOT in May 2022. I thought this suggested Mrs B continued 
to use the car after the last odometer reading (of 25,607 miles) in March 2022. 
I asked the investigator to write to both parties and let them know that (as I explained in my 
provisional decision) I consider its fair that Mrs B should pay for the use she had of the car. 
So, in light of the mileage accrued since March 2022, I was minded to find it fair that 
BMWFS should refund three monthly payments only  from January until March 2022. The 
investigator also explained that the remainder of my provisional decision (and proposed 
award) remained unchanged. 
We asked the parties for any further comments or information by 19 August 2022 (extended 
to 6 September 2022 after Mrs B indicated she had further comments). BMWFS hasnt 
objected or made any further submissions. Mrs B says (in summary) she accepts my 
provisional findings, for the most part. She wanted to be sure however that I had considered 
all the problems she had with the car when things first started to go wrong  as Id only 
referenced refunds for the most recent period.
I want to assure Mrs B that I have taken everything that the parties have said and sent to us 
into account. I have considered all the evidence and thought about what happened, 
carefully. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable for 
BMWFS to take the steps below to put things right. 
I realise Mrs B may feel disappointed and consider she should be entitled to a bigger refund 
and/or more compensation. But, taking into account the use she had of the car as well as 
compensation award, I remain of the view it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require 
BMWFS to do more than I have set out. Mrs B is not obliged to accept my decision, in which 
case it remains open to her to pursue this matter by any other means available.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require BMW 
Financial Services (GB) to:- 
1. cancel the finance agreement and collect the car at no additional cost to Mrs B;
2.  refund the deposit paid along with any monthly payments made from January 2022 
until March 2022 (three in total);
3. pay interest at 8% simple a year on any refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
4. pay Mrs B £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused; and
5. mark the finance as settled on her credit file.
If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also 
give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
If BMWFS does not pay the compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it that Mrs B accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman