DRN-3969937
The complaint
Miss R complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (EDL) 
irresponsibly agreed a loan for her and didnt offer her an affordable settlement figure.
What happened
EDL agreed a loan of £2,338 for Miss R in June 2021. The total amount owed was £5,771 to
be repaid at £240 a month over 24 months (all figures rounded).
Miss R made 11 payments amounting to £2,645 before contacting EDL in May 2022 to
request a settlement figure. She explained that her financial situation had become worse and
a family member had offered to clear the loan balance for her. She asked for a settlement
figure, which EDL gave as £2,186. It said this offered Miss R a saving of £940 over the
original agreement.
Miss R felt this settlement figure was too high, given the amount she had repaid. In order to
resolve her complaint she asked EDL to recalculate the settlement figure taking into account
her worsened financial position due to her personal circumstances and rising living costs.
EDL didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. It said that that the checks it completed prior to
lending were reasonable and proportionate. It believed the loan would be sustainable for
Miss R over the term as it had found that she would have enough disposable income left
each month after meeting her repayments if there were no significant changes to her
circumstances. EDL also said that its calculation of the settlement figure was in line with the
format prescribed under the relevant legislation, and these early settlement terms were set
out in Miss Rs loan agreement.
Miss R referred her complaint to us. She said that the loan was unaffordable and resulted in
further borrowing. She also said that the settlement figure offered by EDL was too high. Our
investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. They didnt find
that EDL had gotten anything wrong when it calculated an early settlement figure however,
they found that EDL had been irresponsible when it agreed to lend to Miss R as it should
have seen from the information it had that the loan was unaffordable for her from the outset.
EDL didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an
ombudsman to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as EDL, need to abide by. EDL
will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I
wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, EDL needed to check that Miss R could afford to
meet her repayments out of her usual means for the term of the loan, without having to
borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences.
The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for
example) and to Miss Rs circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that EDL needed to pay due regard to Miss Rs interests
and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did EDL complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Rs application for her loan to satisfy itself that
she would be able to make her repayments without difficulty? If not, what would reasonable
and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did EDL make a fair lending decision?
Ill start by saying that I have reviewed the settlement figure and calculations that EDL
provided and I dont think it got anything wrong in this regard. As I will go on to explain Im 
planning to uphold Miss Rs complaint for other reasons.
When Miss R applied for the loan, EDL carried out an affordability assessment. It recorded
Miss Rs income as £2,212 a month, comprising income and state benefits. The breakdown
of this was monthly income of £1,926, child benefit payments of £21 a week and child
maintenance payments via the Child Maintenance Service (CMS) of £195 a month.
Miss R gave her monthly rent as £650. EDL estimated that Miss Rs living costs were £824
(based on data from the Office of National Statistics) and recorded her ongoing monthly
financial commitments as £357. EDL considered that this left Miss R with about £380 of
disposable income to cover her loan repayments of £240 along with any other unaccounted
for expenses. EDL concluded that the loan was affordable for her.
The figures EDL used in the Key Information Affordability sheet it provided to Miss R were
slightly different. It noted her income as £2,205, her rent and living costs as above but her
ongoing credit commitments figure as £333. This left Miss R with an estimated £400 a month
disposable income.
EDL provided copies of the credit file information, payslips and bank statements it relied on
and Ive reviewed these. The credit file information shows that Miss R had about £13,000 of
existing debt across several loans and credit cards, including a hire purchase agreement 
and loans from communication suppliers. There were four credit cards listed and Miss R was
up to her combined limit of £1,500. Miss R had several defaults showing, all of which were
several years old.
I dont think any of the credit file information alone would or should have caused EDL to
decline to lend to Miss R. She didnt have any recent adverse information recorded on her
credit file and she was to use the loan to clear some of her existing debts.
Our investigator found that EDL shouldnt have taken into account the CMS payments when
considering Miss Rs income. However I see no reason why these couldnt be considered as
income in this case where Miss R provided a payment plan for the year from CMS and
evidence of regular payments. Our investigator also found that EDL hadnt included the
amount Miss R was paying towards her agreements with communication suppliers as shown
on the credit file, however EDL said it had considered these costs when estimating Miss Rs
living expenses using ONS figures and to include them again would likely be double-
counting. This seems a reasonable assumption to me, given that ONS figures include spendon communication.
Altogether, Ive concluded that the checks EDL carried out were reasonable and
proportionate. However, I dont think EDL took full account of the information it had gathered.
It seems to me that Miss R was regularly spending more than EDL took into account in its
affordability assessment.
The current account statements that EDL saw cover April and May 2021 and show that
Miss R made many relatively low value foreign transactions from her account to the extent
that she sometimes didnt have enough money left to meet other commitments. These
payments amounted to £680 in April and £270 in May and appear to be gaming transactions,
which Miss R has confirmed. In April and May Miss R had direct debits returned for
insurance and credit card repayments, for example, as she didnt have enough money in her
account to meet these. The statements also show that Miss R was borrowing from short
term lenders  an existing loan was being repaid at £200 a month.
I think EDL should have seen from this information that it was more likely than not that
Miss R wouldnt be able to meet her repayments for this loan without experiencing adverse
impacts on her finances or borrowing further. Miss R has provided her bank statements for 
later months and I can see that her gaming spend continued with almost £900 in June and 
£300 in July 2021. Miss R took out another short term loan in early June with monthly 
repayments of £90, and she began repaying a peer-to-peer loan at £200 a month from July. 
Taking everything into account, Ive concluded that EDL treated Miss R unfairly and without 
regard to her interests by lending to her on this occasion and it needs to take steps to put 
things right for her.
Putting things right
I think its fair that Miss R repays the capital she borrowed as shes had the use of this but I
dont think she should pay any interest or charges on this loan, which Ive found to have 
been irresponsible given. In summary EDL should:
Cap the amount Miss R needs to repay at £2,338; and
Consider all payments, including fees, Miss R made as payments towards this capital 
amount; and
oIf Miss R has paid more than this (which I understand is the case) then EDL 
needs to refund these overpayments to her along with 8% simple interest per 
annum* from the date of payment to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
In this case EDL needs to remove any negative information about this loan 
from Miss Rs credit file up to the point of settlement of the complaint; or
oIf in the event that Miss R has not yet repaid the capital, then EDL needs to 
treat Miss R fairly and with forbearance and due consideration regarding her 
outstanding capital balance. This may mean coming to an affordable 
repayment plan with her. Once the loan capital has been repaid, then EDL 
should remove any negative information about this loan from Miss Rs credit 
file. 
If EDL has since sold the debt, it needs to either buy it back or liaise with the current debt  
owner to ensure Miss R isnt liable for more than the capital she borrowed.
*HMRC requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must give Miss R a certificate
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Miss Rs complaint about Everyday Lending
Limited trading as Everyday Loans and it now needs to take the steps outlined to put things
right for her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman