DRN-4157307
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC lost her title deeds.
What happened
Ms G says she used Barclays safe deposit service to deposit her home title deeds with it in 
2004. She says she didnt access the service until Barclays wrote to her in 2021 to tell her it 
was no longer offering the service. Ms G says she opened the wallet in which the deeds 
were kept but it was damaged, and the deeds were not present. She is concerned about the 
loss and would like the fee of £3 a month refunded and/or the deeds returned.
Barclays accepts the original wallets disintegrated but says it doesnt have the deeds. It says 
it cant accept Ms Gs record as evidence it has the deeds and says it has searched for 
them. Barclays accepts poor service and has paid or offered £50 compensation.
Ms G brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it and thought the 
account terms and conditions made clear Barclays wasnt responsible for any loss. The 
investigator thought the compensation offer fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint. 
And thought Barclays acted fairly by providing Ms G with an electronic version of the deeds.
Ms G doesnt accept that view and says she hadnt accessed the deeds or account since 
opening.
Barclays accepts there has been no account/safe deposit access and believes it sent Ms G 
what she deposited.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I looked at the document safe initial opening documents and could see Ms G opened the 
account in 2004. The document which I accepted was completed by Ms G says that she 
deposited her house deeds and what is described as associated letters from Land 
Registry. I thought on balance it likely that Ms G opened the facility to store what she 
regarded as important documents and also thought they were the title deeds. I was satisfied 
Ms G went to the trouble of opening a safe deposit facility at Barclays and that it unlikely that 
facility was for anything other than title deeds and related documents in light of Ms Gs 
description. I said I have not been told of any other type of documents Ms G wished to keep 
in such safe circumstances and thought on balance the most likely type of documents 
customers wish to keep safe is title deeds.
I could also see that Ms G paid the fee each month which I thought she is unlikely to have 
done unless she thought she was paying for a service she required namely the safe keeping 
of her title deeds. I said there is no dispute here that Ms G didnt withdraw any items from 
the facility since opening it in 2004. And it is Barclays position that Ms G must not have 
deposited the title deeds in the first place despite paying for the service and recording that 
they were deposited in the summary sheet. I thought on balance that it unlikely that Ms G 
recorded such information but somehow forgot to or didnt deposit the title deeds.
I said there is also no dispute that the folders Barclays used to store documents 
disintegrated. So, on balance I thought it more likely than not that Barclays was responsible 
for the loss of Ms Gs title deeds having been satisfied on balance they were deposited with 
it. I took into account that the disintegration of the folders may have compromised the 
security of the deposited documents. And thought that is on balance a far more likely 
outcome than what Barclays says that Ms G may not have deposited the deeds in the first 
place.
I appreciated Barclays says its not responsible in any event, in line with account terms and 
conditions, for any loss. I said that is something I am obliged to consider but explained we 
are not a court and so its not our role to decide on the enforceability of a contract or the 
fairness of a contract term. We look at a complaint to decide if a party has acted fairly and 
reasonably and having done so I didnt think Barclays has here.
I was satisfied Ms G paid for a service and through no fault of her own, the wallet 
disintegrated. I didnt think the loss of the deeds is as significant as it once may have been 
as paper deeds are now replaced by electronic deeds which Barclays has fairly provided Ms 
G with. But I thought Ms G had suffered distress and inconvenience and would have been 
concerned to find out that deeds she trusted Barclays to look after were no longer available.
Overall, my provisional view was that such distress and inconvenience was relatively 
significant in the context of what took place and that for a time Ms G would have been 
unaware of the implications of the loss of the deeds. For those reasons I thought Barclays 
should pay Ms G a further £300 compensation which I thought was fair and reasonable. I 
said it is not clear if Barclays has paid the £50 it previously offered for the delay.
Barclays has accepted my view and has confirmed it has paid the £50 compensation.
Ms G also accepts my provisional view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall decision that I reached in my provisional 
view and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Ms G further compensation of £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms 
G a further £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman