DRN-2904181
The complaint
Ms M isnt happy that Shop Direct wont provide a refund for an item she returned. This was 
returned via a courier that Shop Direct dont have a returns contract with. So Shop Direct 
havent received this back.
What happened
On 27 January 2020, Ms M used her Shop Direct account to purchase an item for £59.99. 
She later decided to return this item. She arranged for a courier to collect the item. But this 
courier doesnt have a returns contract with Shop Direct. So the item wasnt received by 
them. To resolve the complaint, Ms M wants Shop Direct to contact the courier so the item 
can be returned to them and she can receive her refund. Shes tried to contact them, but 
they say Shop Direct need to contact them.
Shop Direct have said that when Ms M asked where her refund was, she was asked to 
provide proof of the return. When she provided this, it was discovered that Ms M had used a 
courier that Shop Direct dont have a returns contract with. 
Shop Direct provide a free returns service. This is usually facilitated by another courier or the 
post office. Theyve checked their records and can find no record of Ms M contacting them to 
arrange a return. And they dont have any record of the item being received back.
Ms M referred her complaint to our service, and it was considered by an investigator. They 
noted that shed provided a reference from the courier, but this didnt show the item had 
been returned. And as Shop Direct didnt have a contract with the courier Miss M used, they 
didnt think it was fair to ask them to contact the courier.
Ms M didnt accept the investigators view. She said:
That Shop Direct arent protecting their customers by not contacting the courier.
She believes the matter would be resolved by a call to the courier.
Shes £59.99 out of pocket because of this.
Shes tried to resolve the matter herself, but the courier will only deal with Shop 
Direct.
The case had now come to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the terms and conditions for Ms Ms Shop Direct account. Section 2.5 says 
Please note, you are responsible for all purchases made on your account and are 
personally liable for all the outstanding balance. So until a return is agreed and received by 
Shop Direct, Ms M is responsible for paying for any item she uses her account to purchase.
The terms and conditions also explain Shop Directs returns process. They say that items 
weighing up to 10kg can be returned via a specific courier by dropping it off at a collection 
point such as a local newsagent. Or, they can be returned via the post office. The terms and 
conditions also say that a returned goods note should be included with the parcel indicating 
the reason for the return. And the returns address label should be stuck over the original 
label. The returns process doesnt say that Miss M can use an alternative to the specified 
courier.
Ive also looked at Shop Directs website and the returns process is explained there as well.
Ms M has said the courier she used wont talk to her about this. So she wants Shop Direct to 
call them to arrange for the item to be returned to them. The investigator did ask Shop Direct 
if they could do this. But they told us they havent had a returns contract with the courier for 
several years. So they cant help.
I appreciate that Ms M believes a quick call from Shop Direct to the courier would sort this 
out, and she could have her refund. But Shop Direct have told us they havent used the 
courier in question for years, and dont have a current relationship with them. So Im not 
satisfied this would be as easy to resolve as Ms M thinks. And Shop Directs returns policy is 
clearly set out in the terms and conditions of Ms Ms account. She chose not to follow the 
policy and used an alternative to the specified courier, so I dont think it would be fair for me 
to say this is something Shop Direct need to resolve, by either calling the courier, or 
provided her with a refund.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint 
against Shop Direct Finance Limited trading as Very. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman