DRN-1165202
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wasnt transparent enough 
about the process for paying a currency cheque into their account. They were also unhappy 
as they thought they would receive a better rate of conversion from HSBC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S sold their property abroad. They received the proceeds of the sale in the form 
of a cheque in euros. They went into their local branch on 20 June 2019 to pay in the cheque 
and were told it could take between eight and twelve weeks for the funds to be credited to 
their account. 
Mr and Mrs S called HSBC on 17 July 2019. They weren't sure how much they would 
receive once the money had been converted from euros to pounds. They also said given the 
value of the pound was decreasing, they were expecting a good rate. The HSBC adviser 
explained what the conversion rate was likely to be, but Mr and Mrs S were concerned. 
They asked if the cheque could be returned to them as they could get a better rate 
elsewhere. They had further telephone conversations with HSBC and the advisers noted 
their concerns. They said they would raise this with the relevant team and make notes on 
their system. It seems however the cheque couldn't be returned but
Mr and Mrs S weren't made aware of this. It was eventually paid into Mr and Mrs Ss account 
on 22 July 2019. They were unhappy as they thought they should have received a better 
rate than the 1.13 rate HSBC used to convert.  
Mr and Mrs S made a complaint to HSBC. It said it followed the correct process in terms of 
converting the cheque from euros to pounds. And it also acknowledged the advisers on the 
phone calls could have explained the process more clearly to Mr and Mrs S. So, in 
recognition of that, HSBC offered Mr and Mrs S £180 for the trouble and upset caused to 
them. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information HSBC has provided in how it deals with processing foreign 
cheques. I can see the cheque took just over a month to be processed. As the cheque was 
in euros, HSBCs process was to provide an indication of the potential exchange rate. It 
seems Mr and Mrs S were given an indication of the rate when they went into the branch 
initially. Ive also listened to the calls and, in these, the adviser explained the exchange rate 
would only be an indication. As the cheque was in euros, HSBC had to first go to the 
drawing bank to confirm the available funds and it took a few weeks for a response to come 
back from the drawing bank. So in terms of the process HSBC followed, I cant see it did 
anything wrong as this was in line with what was expected. But having listened to the calls, I think HSBC could have provided a better explanation on 
what happens when a foreign currency cheque is credited into an account. It could also have 
let Mr and Mrs S know that it couldn't cancel the cheque or return it but only the drawing 
bank could have possibly done that.  I can see though that HSBC has recognised it could 
have been clearer in its explanation and offered Mr and Mrs S £180 in recognition of that. I 
think this is fair in the circumstances of this case.  
In summary, the rate HSBC uses changes on a daily basis and is a live rate so while I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel they've lost out, this isn't something I can comment on or can 
ask it to change. Ive looked at the process HSBC followed in converting the cheque and I 
dont think it did anything wrong. But as explained above, I do think HSBC could have 
explained this better. So overall the £180 offered as compensation for this, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I therefore dont think HSBC needs to do 
anything further. 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against HSBC UK 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman