DRN-3481971
The complaint
Mr C says AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a loan AvantCredit provided to Mr C in January 2016. The loan was 
for £4200 and was due to be repaid for Mr C over 36 months. The loan was outstanding at 
the time Mr C took his complaint to AvantCredit.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought AvantCredit shouldnt have been given 
the loan. AvantCredit disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Cs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr C would be able to repay loan/s in a sustainable way and/or without experiencing 
significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr C. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay loan/s without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
AvantCredit has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr C it asked him to 
declare what his income and expenditure was. It also carried out a credit check and with the 
information it gathered calculated what it thought Mr Cs disposable income was. Based on 
those checks AvantCredit thought it was fair to lend.
Based on the term of the loan and repayment amount, I dont think the checks were 
proportionate because I can see within the credit report that AvantCredit gathered adverse 
credit information recorded against Mr Cs file. This includes a heavy usage of short term 
loans, a high utilisation of credit and relatively high overall unsecured debt. Mr C was already 
committed to around half of his monthly income in credit repayments. So I think AvantCredit 
should have taken its checks further by verifying some of the information Mr C provided. This 
is so it could make sure that Mr C could repay the loan repayments in a sustainable way 
over the 3 year term of the loan.
Mr C has provided copies of his bank statements from the time of the loan and I can see that 
in the month leading up to him asking for this loan, he was gambling heavily. There were 
many gambling transactions and he had spent over half his income in this way before he 
then went on and asked for this loan. It is clear on seeing this that Mr C had problems with 
his finances. Had AvantCredit carried out proportionate checks, it would have seen that the 
lending was unsustainable. 
AvantCredit needs to put things right.
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether AvantCredit acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.Putting things right  what AvantCredit needs to do
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
Treat any payments made by Mr C as payments towards the capital amount of 
£4200,
If Mr C has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr C.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right for Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman