DRN-3969107
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about UK insurance Limited (UKI) declining a claim they made 
against their buildings insurance policy.
UKI are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their agents. As UKI have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
their appointed agents, in my decision, any reference to UKI includes the actions of their 
appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr and Mrs S and UKI. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr and Mrs S had a buildings insurance policy with UKI. At the end of February 2022 Mr and 
Mrs S notified UKI that they needed to make a claim against their policy for water ingress, 
following a storm. Ultimately the claim was declined as UKI said they were unable to 
conclude that the damage being claimed for was caused by a one off storm event.
Mr and Mrs S complained about the service theyd received and the claim decision. UKI 
offered £200 in recognition for the service that had been provided - primarily around  
communication issues.
As Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy, they referred their complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld and Mr 
and Mrs S asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Ive to reach my decision 
based on what I think is more likely than not  based on the available evidence. 
When coming to my own decision Ill be following our Services established approach to 
assessing complaints relating to storm claims. That is: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage happened? 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
Ill also be considering whether UKI have treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and reasonably overall 
when considering their claim.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage happened?
This point isnt in dispute and Im satisfied the weather records our Investigator has obtained 
generally supports that storm conditions had occurred around the time this loss/damage is 
said to have occurred.
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
On balance, the type of water ingress being claimed for here is consistent with the type of 
damage typically seen when storm conditions occur.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
This is the most contentious part of this dispute. Mr and Mrs S say:
 The way the water suddenly came in in one gush suggested something was holding 
the water back, but due to the very high levels of water that came down in the storm 
in March then led to sudden flooding inside the attic. 
Theyve also added that a contractor had worked on the roof in February 2020 and that 
everything was in good condition. Theyve said they had the chimney flashing and regrouted 
in 2021. 
UKI say that an external inspection of the main roof found no obvious reason for the 
rainwater ingress and they ultimately declined the claim - relying on an age related wear and 
tear exclusion under the policy. In the claim notes it was recorded:
It was noted that the neighbours side to the brick chimney is in poor condition, and 
may have contributed to the ingress.
Photos provided support this statement. Mr and Mrs S provided a statement from an 
independent contractor whod previously worked on the roof in 2020 to support their claim:
I cant honestly say the damage has been caused by a storm or one single event
which is what your insurance company are looking for.
I agree that we carried out work to the chimney last year prior to you moving in and
we worked on everything we saw that could have possibly been an issue.
With the rear of the property being 3 storeys it was tricky to say the least to gain
access.
I cant put our professional reputation on the line by saying something that I dont
know to be true.
In my opinion, this doesnt support what Mr and Mrs S have told our Service in January 2023 
that the contractor found everything to be in good condition.
I accept that there were issues with the service received during the initial inspection on 
behalf of UKI - and theyve accepted this. But Ive not seen sufficiently persuasive counter 
evidence from Mr and Mrs S - for example, an independent report, that the conclusions 
reached by UKI were unfair or unreasonable. Neither of the expert opinions here supports 
that the proximate cause of the loss/damage was the storm conditions and an independent 
report wouldve potentially been important evidence. Whilst Mr and Mrs S dispute that they were advised to obtain a roofing report, Ive noted that 
the final response letter dated 9 September 2022 referenced getting a report  prior to our 
Services involvement in the complaint. Ive also seen copies of internal complaint notes from 
July 2022 which have recorded that Mr and Mrs S would be trying to obtain a roofers report 
and send it to UKI. An estimate for a repair was sent, but that is not the same as a report. 
Ive also noted Mr and Mrs S comments in a recent email to our Service: b) home 
insurance is entirely pointless as it is at the whim of contractors / insurers to make 
unchallengeable judgements without evidence.  But the role of our Service here is to reach 
a finding on whether or not UKI have fairly and reasonably considered this claim in line with 
the policy terms  not to determine how the damage occurred or who is liable for the loss. I 
find, on balance, that UKI have fairly and reasonably considered this claim in line with the 
policy terms.
Have UKI treated Mr and Mrs S fairly overall?
Ive considered that Mr and Mrs S may have suffered loss of expectation after being told 
initially that the claim would be covered, but it wouldnt be uncommon for an insurer to 
accept a claim, pending further evidence or investigation to follow. I find that UKI havent 
acted unreasonably here in asking for further information  such as a roofers report before 
agreeing to pay a claim. 
Further to this, I appreciate Mr and Mrs S comments that due to the claim going on for a 
number of months, water was getting into the property each time it rained and this caused 
further anxiety. But I havent seen that UKI had made promises to arrange repair works  so 
I dont make any further award for this reason.
Its not in dispute that the service UKI provided fell below what Mr and Mrs S wouldve 
reasonably expected. UKI offered £200 for the claim delays here and provided feedback to 
the surveyor whod visited. I find this to be a fair, reasonable and proportionate amount to 
recognise the impact of their actions and poor communication on Mr and Mrs S.
Whilst my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs S, it brings to an end our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve their dispute with UKI.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman