DRN-4393675
The complaint
A complains that Zurich Insurance PLC declined its claims on its commercial property and 
business interruption combined insurance policy. 
Mr W is a director of A and brings this complaint on its behalf.
At times throughout this claim and complaint both Mr W and Zurich Insurance PLC have 
been represented by third parties. For ease, Ive referred largely just to Mr W and Zurich. But 
all references include the actions of their representatives. 
What happened
Mr W took out a combined commercial insurance policy to cover material damage and 
business interruption for A, that was underwritten by Zurich. In March 2022 there was a fire 
at As premises and Mr W made a claim for the damage and the interruption to his business. 
Zurich declined both of his claims. It said that the fire, which originated from an electric fryer, 
wasnt covered as the fryer had been left unattended after it had been switched on. And 
there was a condition in the policy that said it couldnt be left unattended. In regards to the 
business interruption cover, it said in order to have a successful claim, Mr W needed to show 
the peril that caused the interruption had been covered by an insurance policy. And as that 
claim had been declined, the business interruption would also not be covered.
Mr W didnt think this was fair. In summary, he had the following objections:
He said the Insurance Act 2015 requires an insurer to show that a condition it relies 
upon was material to the loss, in order for it to decline a claim. And he didnt agree 
that the fryer being left unattended was material to the loss.
He said this requirement of the Insurance Act also applied to his business 
interruption claim. And therefore to decline the claim, Zurich would need to prove that 
the fire claim being declined was material to the business interruption loss. He said 
as he used his own funds to rectify the damage caused by the fire, this prevented 
any delays in the work being done. Therefore the fact the claim was declined wasnt 
material to the loss caused by business interruption, so the claim should be covered.
The condition regarding the cooking equipment and the proviso in the business 
interruption insurance, werent made clear in the documents made available at the 
sale of the policy. He said this is a breach of FCA rules, so the terms cant be fairly 
used to decline the claims. 
He made a complaint but Zurich didnt uphold it. It said its expert had commented that had 
the fryer not been left unattended then the fire may have been stopped altogether or at least 
tackled sooner and the damage reduced. It therefore maintained that the exclusion applied 
to the main damage. And it said the proviso in the business interruption cover clearly 
requires a successful claim for the material damage, and it didnt agree that the fact Mr W 
funded the repairs himself made a difference to this. It also thought both terms were made 
clear in the policy documents. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr W brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
thought Zurich had acted fairly by applying the condition for the fryer being unattended and 
the proviso that requires a successful claim for the business interruption claim. He also 
thought Zurich had made these terms clear in the policy documentation, as it is required to 
do. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint, Mr W has raised a number of different points. As this is an informal 
service, Ive not responded to each one individually. Instead, Ive focussed on those I 
consider to be key to the outcome here. However I want to reassure Mr W that Ive 
considered everything hes said carefully when reaching my decision. 
Cooking condition
The main claim for the damage was declined based on the fact Zurich said Mr W failed to 
comply with the following condition:
it is a condition precedent to our liability for damage caused by fire that..,
e) all cooking equipment used for deep fat frying
iii) will not be left unattended whilst the heat source is operating
There is no dispute that the fire started from the electric fryer. And that Mr W was in another 
room, on another floor of the building when it did. 
The policy doesnt define the word unattended. And where this is the case, this service 
would consider a reasonable interpretation of the word to be a fair application. Here, I think a 
reasonable definition of unattended would be for the fryer to be out of view and out of reach, 
so that any problems couldnt be immediately addressed. 
Here, Mr W went to the toilet on a different floor of the building. He was therefore unable to 
see or attend to the fryer. So, should there be an error or issue, he wouldnt be aware or be 
able to respond immediately. I therefore think this meets a reasonable definition of 
unattended.
However in order to say that Zurich applied the condition fairly, I need to also be satisfied 
that by not complying with the condition, this increased the risk of the loss Mr W is claiming 
for. 
Zurich initially instructed a forensic investigator to inspect the fire damage and report on the 
cause. In that report, the investigator stated:
Had Mr [W] remained in the kitchen and in close proximity to the fryer it is likely that he 
would have seen smoke coming from the oil inside the right-hand pan before it reached its auto-ignition temperature. In those circumstances, he should have been able to switch off 
the fryer before the oil ignited.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Mr W failed to comply with the policy condition. And that this 
failure was material to the fire damage he has claimed for. I am therefore persuaded Zurich 
acted fairly by declining his claim for the fire damage. 
Business interruption
Mr W also made a claim for business interruption for A. Zurich declined this based on the 
following policy wording:
In the event of any incident occurring during the period of insurance which causes 
interruption of or interference with the business we will pay you the amount of loss that 
results from that interruption or interference during the indemnity period.
Provided that:
a) the incident is caused by an operative Insured event
b) at the time the incident occurs there is insurance in force covering your interest in the 
property at the premises against the damage and that payment under the insurance:
i) has been made or liability has been admitted for it
ii) would have been made or liability admitted for it if not for a provision excluding 
losses below a certain amount.
Zurich declined Mr Ws claim for the fire damage. And hes confirmed that he didnt have any 
other insurance to cover the loss. So Im satisfied that the proviso for the business 
interruption that liability has been accepted under an insurance policy hasnt been met. 
Mr W has said that while he accepts the fire damage isnt covered by an insurance policy, 
under the Insurance Act 2015 Zurich can only decline a claim where the condition that is 
breached increased the risk of loss under the section of the policy. He says that Zurich 
would therefore need to show that the fact the claim for the fire damage was declined, 
increased the risk of loss in a claim for business interruption. And he says that this would 
only be the case where there was a delay due to the fact there was no insurance cover. But 
here, he funded the repairs himself, so there was no delay. He therefore says the fact the 
proviso wasnt met, wasnt material to the loss being claimed for.
Ive considered what Mr W has said but I dont agree this means Zurich acted unfairly by 
declining his business interruption claim. 
Firstly, the proviso in the business interruption term has to be fulfilled in order for any 
business interruption cover to come into force. Unlike a policy condition, where the cover is 
in place as part of the policy, the policyholder just has to ensure that they comply with certain 
conditions to maintain it. So the cover is only in place if there is a successful claim, and if 
there is, only then is a claim for business interruption assessed in line with the remaining 
policy terms. I therefore dont agree the test of materiality would fairly apply here. 
Further, the requirement of a successful claim is a very common clause in business 
interruption policies. As this cover is generally not available for all types of interruption, only 
where there is an insured peril. And its reasonable that this requirement is met when an 
insurer assesses the claim, regardless of how the damage is paid for outside of insurance 
cover.But regardless of whether Zurich is required to show that the fact the proviso hasnt been 
met was material to the loss, I dont think Mr W has done enough to show that it wasnt. Hes 
said that because A funded the work itself, this reduced any delay that may have been 
experienced due to a declined insurance claim. Therefore it was immaterial whether the 
claim was covered or not. But it isnt possible to know how quickly work would have been 
carried out if a claim had been covered, to say that there was no delay. Therefore it is 
difficult to say whether the declined insurance claim increased the potential business 
interruption claim and Ive not seen enough to persuade me that it was immaterial. Further 
Mr W has said that A crowd funded and borrowed money in order to cover the cost, and it 
seems likely this would take more time than payment from an insurer. So regardless of 
whether materiality needs to be proven for the business interruption claim, this isnt enough 
to persuade me that Zurich acted unfairly by declining the claim. 
Clarity of terms in policy documents
Mr W has also said that he doesnt think either the fire damage condition or the business 
interruption proviso were made clear enough in the policy documents. He says that Zurich 
have a responsibility to include these in the important information document, under rules set 
out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mr W bought the policy through a broker. Under FCA rules, Zurich, as the insurer, is 
responsible for ensuring that the policy documents are clear and unambiguous. 
I can see that the endorsement for fryers is included in the policy schedule. It is listed on 
page five, with the full wording detailed on page seven. The condition to not leave a fryer 
unattended isnt one I would consider to be unusual. It is quite usual that under an insurance 
policy, there is an expectation that you take reasonable action to avoid loss. And ensuring a 
fryer is attended at all times, would reasonably fall within this. So I dont think Zurich needed 
to highlight the endorsement outside of the policy schedule and the wording was clear 
enough to explain the condition.
In regards to the business interruption insurance, Mr W has said this is only listed in the 
policy document itself, rather than anywhere on the important information or policy schedule. 
When business interruption insurance is included in a policy, it is usual that cover will be 
dependent on a successful claim for the material damage. In fact, its very rare that this 
would not be a proviso of the cover. So Im satisfied that the explanation in the policy terms 
is sufficient and makes the conditions of the cover clear enough.
Based on this, Im persuaded that Zurich has done enough to meet its obligation to provide 
clear information about the policy cover. And therefore that it acted fairly by applying the 
terms to decline As claims. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of  
A, to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman