DRN-2936419
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain that Nationwide Building Society over valued their property during 
a mortgage application. 
What happened
In 2007, Mrs K and Mr S applied for a mortgage with Nationwide to help them to buy a 
property. As part of that process, a mortgage valuation report (MVR) was carried out and 
confirmed the property was suitable security for the mortgage.
In February 2021 following some issues with the property, Mrs K and Mr S had a structural 
appraisal and report carried out. This report concluded there were structural defects with the 
property. Mrs K and Mr S complained to Nationwide as they said the problems should have 
been identified when the MVR was carried out.
Nationwide said that during the application process, it was made clear to Mrs K and Mr S 
that the MVR would only assess the value of the property, would not be adequate for 
someone wishing to purchase and live in the property, and may not reveal serious defects. 
The application form said, you arestrongly advised to obtain your own report and 
explained that details of alternative reports were available through its branch network. Mrs K 
and Mr S selected to have a basic MVR and paid the appropriate fee. The MVR itself says 
there was some cracking to the elevations. Nationwide was content with the MVR and 
prepared to lend on the basis of it. It didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs K and Mr R didnt agree, so referred their complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. He agreed with Nationwide. He felt the application made clear what the MVR 
was for, and the MVR highlighted there were some issues with the property and said they 
should arrange for a more in-depth inspection.
Nationwide accepted our investigators opinion, but Mrs K and Mr S didnt. They said (in 
summary) rectification would cost several thousand pounds and, if the problems had been 
picked up in the MVR, theyd either have had the problems fixed before purchase or not 
continued with it. Theyve said they consider the wording concerning the MVR not being 
suitable for purchasers of a home to be just a phrase rather than carrying any weight.
As there was no agreement, Mrs K and Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ive looked at this complaint, Ive thought carefully about what happened at the time of 
the application and house purchase. Ive considered all the documents available  including 
the application and the MVR itself - to think about what happened at the time. 
The application form has been signed by both Mrs K and Mr S. Section 7 is headed 
Valuation / Survey Requirements. The first paragraph explains that Nationwide has an 
obligation to value the property and will do so, However, this report will not be adequate for 
the purpose of someone wishing to purchase and live in the property. The report may not 
reveal serious defectsIt will not be a Structural or Building Survey Report and will be 
based on a limited inspection. You are therefore strongly advised to obtain your own report 
on the condition and value of the property, based on a fuller inspection. The application 
goes on to record that Mrs K and Mr S elected to have an MVR. 
The MVR itself is headed Residential Property Mortgage Valuation Report for Nationwide 
Building Society. It goes on to record that the property has been affected by structural 
movement in the past but that the risk of further movement [is] one the Society can accept. 
It documents that some works of repair and maintenance are required. Cracking was noted 
to elevations. It recorded a valuation of the property for mortgage purposes. 
The MVR finishes with a short section headed IMPORTANT NOTICE TO APPLICANT(S). 
This report has been prepared solely for the Societys purposes. It is not a structural report 
and is based on a limited inspectionIt is unlikely to be adequate for the purchasers 
purposes and should not be relied upon. YOU ARE STRONGLY ADVISED TO OBTAIN A 
FULLER REPORT ON THE PROPERTY. [emphasis is as on the original document].
I have a great deal of sympathy with the situation Mrs K and Mr S find themselves in a 
number of years after purchasing the property. But in order for me to uphold their complaint, 
Id need to be satisfied that Nationwide made an error of some kind. But having looked at the 
evidence, I havent seen anything which leads me to think that Nationwide made an error. 
There are prominent warnings on both the application form and the MVR itself which make 
the purpose of the MVR clear and that further, more detailed inspections were strongly 
advised.
Mrs K and Mr S say they considered such warnings to be just a phrase so they didnt 
arrange a further inspection. But I dont think I could reasonably expect Nationwide to have 
made the documents Ive looked at any clearer. 
I know Mrs K and Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think Nationwide 
has made an error here which would enable me to uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman