DRN-3835039
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complained, in their capacity as the appointed executors of the estate of 
Mrs S, about poor service provided by Invesco Fund Managers Limited (Invesco) after it 
changed the way it managed distribution payments for the late Mrs Ss holdings.
Mrs J has handled the complaint on behalf of the executors. She doesnt feel that the 
amount of £100 compensation paid to her by Invesco is adequate to reflect the full extent of 
the impact on her of longstanding issues between herself and Invesco in relation to her late 
mothers estate. 
To put things right, Mrs J wants acknowledgment of Invescos poor and failed 
communications and the beneficiaries and/or executors treated fairly.
What happened
Mrs S died in 2005 and Mrs J is one of her appointed executors, with authority to bring a 
complaint on behalf of the estate.
This complaint concerns what happened when Invesco changed its administration provider 
in February 2021 and this resulted in it implementing changes to the way it paid out 
distributions it had been paying to Mrs S.
By way of background, from 2006 up until 15 February 2021,Invesco made distribution 
payments for her late mothers account to Mrs J as executor, in line with a longstanding 
arrangement set up by the executors with Invesco.
Following a change of administration, Invesco conducted a review of all procedures and from 
February 2021, relied on terms and conditions which meant it no longer issued distribution 
cheques until shares held in a deceaseds estate had been transferred or encashed. This 
meant it stopped issuing distribution cheques to Mrs J as it had done previously. 
This prompted Mrs J initially to chase up her missing payments over a series of phone calls 
throughout June, July and August 2021 and subsequently to complain to Invesco. She was 
unhappy that distribution payments for her late mothers account were no longer paid to her 
as executor when she had received these previously  she considered these were being 
wrongly withheld from her by Invesco. She was also dissatisfied that she wasnt informed of 
any change and frustrated that Invesco was disregarding the executors previous 
instructions. 
Invesco corresponded with Mrs J and admitted that it didnt give her advance warning of the 
change when it said it should have done. It said the call handlers she had spoken to during 
the course of her phone calls over summer 2021 hadnt been aware of it. Invesco apologised 
for the fact that this meant Mrs J had sent information to the tax authorities based on what it 
had previously advised her and provided confirmation of the last date that payments had 
been issued to her in respect of income funds held in her late mothers account. It 
acknowledged that Mrs J felt Invesco was no longer enacting the wishes of the executors 
with regards to making distribution payments but said its policy had changed since the 
previous arrangements were set up. It also explained that some further paperwork was 
needed to progress with the sale or transfer of the shareholdings in the estate, along with 
documents needed to verify the identity of the other executor.   
Mrs J continued to express her dissatisfaction to Invesco at the way it was treating her. In 
response to her complaints, Invesco confirmed that all shares held in the estate had been 
transferred to Mrs Js personal account on 16 February 2022 and letters issued confirming 
the distributions made. Invesco explained that it was required to comply with anti-money 
laundering (AML) checks it had in place and so it had required additional identity 
confirmation from the other executor. Invesco however upheld Mrs Js complaint about what 
she referred to as withheld distributions. It said: as part of the change in 
administrators.we conducted a review of our procedures. For distributions payable from a 
late clients account, the decision was taken to adopt the procedure already in place with our 
new administrator. Im very sorry this change was not communicated to you. We should 
have included this with the information issued prior to the change on 15th February 2021 
Invesco apologised to Mrs J for any distress and inconvenience this caused and sent her a 
cheque for £100 in recognition of this.   
Mrs J didnt feel that Invesco had dealt adequately with her complaints and continued to 
correspond. This resulted in Invesco sending a further response to her complaints, largely 
saying that:
it had finished looking into her complaint about distributions payments, its AML 
process, incorrect information provided to her and a recent final distribution payment 
in respect of the above fund and was satisfied that the points she raised had 
previously been upheld in previous responses to her
it didnt uphold the element of her complaint that Invesco had withheld distributions 
without explanation or justification as it had previously provided an explanation 
regarding this, and
it didnt uphold the element of her complaint that Invesco forced the executors to 
transfer the holdings to Mrs J as it had previously stated, if there is a requirement for 
distributions to be paid from an account, they cant be paid from an account held in 
the name of a deceased person.Mrs J remained unhappy with Invescos responses and brought her complaint to us. In brief 
summary, she highlighted concerns that:
Invesco had no right (legal or otherwise) to withhold income dividends due from the 
estate which had been paid to Mrs J, as per the joint executors instructions, from 
June 2006 until 15 February 2021
Invesco had forced the transfer of nine holdings to the beneficiary in order for income 
legally due to be paid
Invesco had continued to withhold income after unit transfers on 16 February 2022 
until 21 April 2022 and payments were two months late
she was not paid interest on withheld distributions
Invesco had admitted to poor communications
it was still unclear which of Invescos terms and conditions covered overriding the 
executors instructions 
there were still outstanding complaint points unanswered from letters she sent in 
August 2021 and June 2022. 
Our investigator was sympathetic and she looked into the points of concerns Mrs J had 
raised and set out her findings in an effort to assist her, but ultimately concluded that Invesco 
didnt need to take any further action. As Mrs J feels this is an unfair outcome, she has 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems clear that Mrs J has suffered significant inconvenience during the course of her 
dealings with Invesco. She told us that, as a bereaved daughter, shes been caused great 
upset and stress trying to deal with these matters when shes found Invesco 
uncommunicative, been given incorrect information, had to chase for replies and necessary 
documents and been denied interest on withheld income payments. 
I sympathise with Mrs J. I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for her.
 
Mrs J is also an existing client of Invesco, with her own account. But, to be clear, this 
complaint relates to her late mothers holdings, so she brings this complaint in her capacity 
as representative for the estate rather than in her personal capacity. This is an important 
consideration because it goes to the heart of what this service can do in this situation.
Under the rules governing our service, Mrs J (as executor of Mrs Ss estate) isnt entitled to 
any compensation for the inconvenience she experienced in the course of carrying out her 
duties as executor. We can only tell a business to pay compensation for upset and stress 
experienced by its client, not by a third party. Here, the client is the late Mrs S. Following 
her death, the investments remained within her estate and in this particular situation, the 
capacity in which Mrs J has dealings with Invesco is as a representative of the estate. I've carefully listened to the call recording when our investigator talked Mrs J through the 
main points set out in her view and she explained why this wasnt a complaint she could 
recommend upholding. I appreciate that Mrs J holds a different view and she feels strongly 
about everything that happened  she told the investigator that shes more than annoyed at 
the way Invesco has behaved. Mrs J said that financial compensation isnt important to her  
but as a matter of principle she feels Invesco should be held to account for its admitted 
communication failures and poor handling of matters. 
I would like to assure Mrs J that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've been 
able to see and everything thats been said, including what she discussed with the 
investigator. But its also not for us to punish a financial business for any wrongdoing, thats 
the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
My approach is to consider whether Invesco has made any error in relation to the estate or 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in a way that has impacted adversely on the estate and 
caused loss. 
I think its unfortunate that there seem to be some contradictions in what Invesco has said to 
Mrs J. Invesco admitted it should have told the executors in advance about the new 
arrangements that would mean the cessation of distribution payments to Mrs J. It 
subsequently said it had sent letters to all clients in December 2020, January 2021 and 
February 2021 advising of the upcoming changes. It provided a copy of a letter to Mrs J 
dated 7 January 2021, which confirmed how it would in future deal with client money and it 
provided a hyperlink to the relevant terms and conditions on its website. Mrs J doesnt feel 
this is a good enough response to her complaint. But I think it was fair for our investigator to 
say that this is an execution-only account on an online platform and so this seems a 
reasonable way for Invesco to communicate this sort of information. I mention this briefly 
only in the hope it may provide some closure to Mrs J on an issue that has caused her so 
much distress.   
But what Mrs J has told me isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the 
complaint. Mrs J was throughout acting as the appointed representative of her late mothers 
estate when dealing with the distribution payments so shes not entitled to receive any 
compensation or other redress in her capacity as one of the executors. And whilst I could 
award redress to the estate if there was evidence to show that Invesco had made an error or 
acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable resulting in the estate losing out in money 
terms, I havent been provided with any information that suggests the estate suffered any 
financial loss.
So, this leads me to conclude that there are not grounds upon which to uphold Mrs Js 
complaint so I cannot award redress.I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mrs J hoped for, she will at least feel that her complaint 
has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint brought on behalf of the estate of Mrs S about Invesco Fund 
Managers Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman