DRN-1785838
 
Complaint
Miss C says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream irresponsibly lent to her.                
Background
This complaint is about three loans, Lending Stream provided to Miss C between November 
2013 and June 2014. Loan 1 was given to Miss C for £400 in November 2013. Loan 2 was 
approved for £1,170 on 22 April 2014 and the sum of £310 was provided to Miss C in 
relation to the third loan on 13 June 2014. I understand Miss C was unable to repay the 
balance for loan 3 which is now with a debt collection agency. Each loan was repayable over 
a term of six-monthly instalments.
In its final response to Miss C Lending Stream did not uphold her complaint. It said it had 
conducted the correct rigorous affordability checks for each and every loan application.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Cs complaint and thought loans 2 and 3 shouldn't have been 
given. Lending Stream disagreed and the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. Having done this, Ive decided to 
agree with our adjudicator and uphold Miss Cs complaint about loans 2 and 3. I will explain 
why below.
When Lending Stream gave Miss C loan 1, I think the checks it did were likely proportionate 
and there would have been nothing to alert it to the fact that the loan was unaffordable or 
that Miss C was having problems managing money.
Miss C borrowed loan 2 for a much higher amount of £1,170, and she took this out whilst 
she was still repaying loan 1. Shed declared her income as £2,500 per month, and shed 
also told Lending Stream that her expenses were £800. Taking this information that Miss C 
had provided to Lending Stream, together with the repayment amounts, I think it would have 
been clear that the repayments of this loan would have amounted to a significant proportion 
of Miss Cs income. All in all, it appears likely the repayments of this loan weren't affordable 
or sustainable and meant on balance Miss C was more likely to need to borrow further 
amounts in order to meet her expenses. When Miss C borrowed loan 3, the repayments for 
loan 2 were still outstanding and again I think its unlikely Miss C would be able to meet the 
repayments for this loan either.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 2 and 3.
Putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
Lending Stream shouldn't have given Miss C loans 2 and 3.
I understand Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts. It should buy these back if it is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream is not able to buy the 
debts back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 2 and 3, not including anything Lending Stream has 
already refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss C which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss C originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss C as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss C having 
made overpayments then Lending Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal Lending 
Stream has already written-off. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to 
Miss C.
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss C. Lending Stream shouldn't pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal Lending Stream has already written-off. 
E) Lending Stream should remove any negative information recorded on Miss Cs credit file 
in relation to loans 2 and 3.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Cs complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman