DRN-3064590
The complaint
Mr H complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance based on false information provided to them. 
What happened
On 17 March 2020 Mr H took out a motor insurance policy with Watford. Mr H was listed as 
the owner and registered keeper of the car, but the premiums were paid from his partners 
account. And she was listed as a named driver on the policy. 
Shortly after this Mr H and his partner split up. His partner then contacted Watford and told 
them she owned the car and Mr H had used her account to pay for the insurance without her 
consent. Based on what they were told, Watford cancelled Mr Hs policy and wrote to him on 
30 March 2020 advising him of this.
Mr H has told us he didnt receive the letter as hed left the property hed been sharing with 
his partner. On 7 April 2020 he was stopped by the police for driving without insurance, his 
car was impounded and eventually destroyed. And he was charged with driving without 
insurance. Hes been to court about this already and faces a further court hearing. This has 
all been distressing for him and hes told us the stress has exacerbated a pre-existing 
condition, which has caused him a lot of pain.
Mr H says his ex-partner lied to Watford. He thinks they should have done more to check her 
story before cancelling his policy. And if theyd contacted him before taking any action hed 
never have been stopped by the police, and hed still have his car.
Mr H complained to Watford about the cancellation of his policy, but they didnt uphold his 
complaint. They said the named driver on his policy advised them that he was not the 
registered owner or keeper of the car when he took out the policy, and that hed used her 
account without her consent to pay for the policy. And shed provided a crime reference 
number to support what she told them. Based on this information they said theyd cancelled 
the policy as it had been set up fraudulently. 
They told Mr H that their decision was correct based on the information they had at the time, 
so they couldnt reinstate the policy. But they did say that if Mr H sent them this V5 as proof 
of ownership and confirmation that the charges against him had been dropped, they were 
willing to set up a new policy for him. 
Mr H was unable to provide a copy of his V5. He cant get a replacement certificate as his 
cars been destroyed. The only offence hes been charged with is driving without insurance 
and the court proceedings are ongoing.
Mr H was unhappy with the response he received from Watford and complained to our 
service. Our investigator considered the case and said there were a number of different 
issues he needed to consider which he addressed separately.
Cancellation of policy
Looking at the policy document our investigator said this states Watford may cancel the 
policy with immediate effect where they reasonably suspect fraud. He accepted that Watford 
had to take the allegations Mr Hs ex-partner had made seriously. But he thought they 
should have investigated them in more detail and have given Mr H the opportunity to prove 
his version of events. 
While Watford did eventually do this, and said theyd reinstate the policy on receiving proof 
Mr H owned the car, this was after hed been stopped by the police and his car had been 
seized. 
Our investigator didnt think Watford had acted fairly, as they didnt have any proof that Mr H 
had done anything wrong. And while his ex-partner had provided a crime reference number, 
she hadnt provided anything to back up her allegations, such as proof that she owned the 
car. 
Notification of cancellation
Mr H was sent notice of the cancellation of his policy by his brokers by letter on 30 March 
2020. Mr H has told us he didnt receive this letter, as hed temporarily left his home address 
following the break-up with his ex-partner. Our investigator said he couldnt hold Watford 
responsible for Mr H not receiving the letter, as theyd done what the terms of the policy 
required, by sending a cancellation letter to the latest address they had for him.
But he didnt think Watford had enough evidence to cancel the policy fairly. He said they 
should have done more to contact Mr H about what his ex-partner had said. And given the 
seriousness of the allegations hed have expected someone from Watford to pick up the 
phone and try to speak to Mr H.
Had this been done, our investigator said Mr H would have been aware of the allegations 
that had been made and that his policy was potentially going to be cancelled. And it would 
have given him the opportunity to provide proof he owned the car, or to accept the policy 
being cancelled and either stop driving the car or set up a policy elsewhere.
So our investigator didnt think Watford had done enough to make Mr H aware of the 
situation. And had they done what wed expect of them Mr H wouldnt have been in a 
situation where he was unknowingly driving without insurance.
Proof of ownership and false allegations
Although Watford did eventually offer to provide Mr H with a new policy, hes been unable to 
provide proof he owned the car and that the allegations made against him are untrue. Our 
investigator said this appears to be due to factors outside his control. Hed requested a copy 
of his V5 from the DVLA, but they couldnt provide this as theyd been notified the car had 
been damaged. This was because the police had seized and destroyed the car. But had Mr 
H been asked for this proof before his policy was cancelled, our investigator felt it was likely 
hed have been able to obtain it.
Mr H has also shown us that hes made a subject access request to the police, for proof that 
the fraud charges against him were dropped. Hes provided numerous letters from the police 
which say they have large backlogs, so they havent yet been able to comply with his 
request. So our investigator didnt think it was fair to hold Mr H responsible for not providing 
this evidence.
Our investigator didnt think Watford acted fairly when they cancelled Mr Hs policy. He felt 
they should have contacted Mr H by phone to discuss the serious allegations that had been made against him. If theyd done this, even though he might not have been able to provide 
the evidence Watford asked for, Mr H would have been aware of the situation and that his 
policy was going to be cancelled. So he felt Watford were responsible for Mr H unknowingly 
driving without insurance.
To put things right our investigator recommended that Watford do the following: -
Remove any record of the cancellation from the CUE database.
Provide a letter to Mr H confirming that they shouldnt have cancelled his policy and 
he wasnt at fault for this happening. Mr H will be able to use this to hopefully get the 
charge of driving without insurance dropped.
Pay Mr H the value of his car that was destroyed. This should be calculated using the 
motor trade guides, using the date of 7 April 2020, the date the car was seized.
Pay Mr H a further £1,000 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
situation has caused him.
Mr H was happy with our investigators opinion, but Watford werent. They told us that they 
take fraud very seriously and Mr Hs ex-partner had provided information supported by a 
crime reference number. As its a criminal offence to falsely report a crime, they said they 
had no reason to believe the information theyd been given wasnt correct. And they didnt 
accept that they werent entitled to act on the information. 
They also said that Mr Hs ex-partner actions, not theirs, were responsible for all that had 
happened, including the destruction of his car. They consider this is a civil matter to be 
resolved between Mr H and his ex-partner, and that he needs to pursue her for his financial 
losses and any compensation.
They consider the compensation our investigator recommended to be excessive and based 
on the distress and inconvenience relating to the whole matter, including the consequences 
which they consider Mr Hs ex-partner to be responsible for, not just for the cancellation of 
his policy.
To conclude this matter, theyve offered to remove the record of cancellation of Mr Hs policy 
from the CUE database. And, purely as a gesture of goodwill, even though they dont 
consider this to be the case, to write a letter confirming the cancellation was in error, to 
assist Mr H going forward.
The case has now come to me for a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy document states that Watford have the right to cancel his policy at any time by 
giving him seven days notice in writing. And they have the right to cancel his policy with 
immediate effect where they reasonably suspect fraud. It also says that they wont cancel his 
policy without a valid reason for doing so. 
So did Watford act reasonably in cancelling Mr Hs policy? And did they make enough effort 
to contact him before cancelling his policy?Within days of the policy being taken out Mr Hs ex-partner, who was also a named driver on 
the policy, rang Watford alleging he didnt own the insured vehicle and he paid for the policy 
using her account, without her consent.
I accept that these were allegations which Watford had to take seriously. But I also think they 
should have investigated the allegations before taking any action to cancel his policy. Mr H 
had only had his policy for a short time, it was taken out through a broker, so Watford had no 
real knowledge about him, or his ex-partner. 
Yet Watford accepted Mr Hs ex-partners allegations without question. Theyve justified this 
by saying she provided a crime reference number, and as its a criminal offence to wrongly 
report a crime, they had no reason to doubt the information she provided. But its also a 
criminal offence to fraudulently obtain insurance and to use another persons account 
without their consent. And they appear to have been willing to accept that Mr H would have 
committed these offences without any real evidence.
I think Watford should have called Mr H and this would have given him the opportunity to 
respond to what his ex-partner had told them. Mr H would have been able to explain the 
situation, and hopefully have been able to obtain a copy of his V5, to prove that he owned 
the car. So I dont think Watford did enough to make Mr Hs aware of the allegations made 
against him.
Watford arranged for Mr Hs broker to send notice of the policy cancellation to the last 
address they had for him. This is in line with his policy terms and conditions, so I cant hold 
Watford responsible for Mr H not receiving the letter. But if Watford had called him, as I 
believe they should have done, hed have been aware that they intended to cancel his 
policy. And if he was unable to resolve the situation with them, he could have arranged 
alternative insurance for his car and, if necessary, have stopped driving the car until things 
were sorted out.   
Had Watford picked up the phone and called Mr H he wouldnt have been in the situation 
where he was unknowingly driving without insurance. Watford have said that its Mr Hs ex-
partner who made the allegations, so shes the one whos responsible for the seizure and 
destruction of his car, and for him being charged with driving without insurance. 
While Mr Hs ex-partner made the allegations against him, I believe its the actions of 
Watford which were responsible for what happened to his car, and the charges he currently 
faces. Had they contacted Mr H about the allegations, as Ive said they should have done, 
the current situation could have been avoided.
Watford did eventually offer to provide Mr H with a new policy, but hes been unable to 
provide proof that he owned the car, or that the other charges against him have been 
dropped. And I accept that this is due to factors outside Mr Hs control.
Watford have now offered to remove the record of the cancellation of Mr Hs policy from the 
CUE database and, it seems somewhat reluctantly, to provide a letter confirming that his 
policy was cancelled in error. But I dont think this is enough to put things right. 
To put things right I require Watford to remove any record of the cancellation of Mr Hs policy 
from the CUE database and provide him with a letter confirming that his policy was cancelled 
in error. This I hope will allow him to have the charge of driving without insurance dismissed. 
But as a result of the cancellation of his policy Mr H has also suffered a significant amount of 
distress and inconvenience. He was stopped by the police, his car was seized and 
destroyed, and hes faced court proceedings, which are ongoing, for driving without insurance. And hes shared with us the impact this has had on his health. Hes clearly had a 
very difficult time for the last 18 months.
To put this right, I require Watford to pay Mr H the value of his car. This should be calculated 
using the motor trade guides, using the date of 7 April 2020, the date the car was seized. 
And in addition, Watford should pay Mr H £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience the 
situation has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited
And to put things right I require Watford to do the following: -
Remove any record of the cancellation of Mr Hs policy from the CUE database.
Provide a letter to Mr H confirming that they shouldnt have cancelled his policy and 
he wasnt at fault for this happening. 
Pay Mr H the value of his car that was destroyed. This should be calculated using the 
motor trade guides, using the date of 7 April 2020, the date the car was seized.
Pay Mr H a further £1,000 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
situation has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman