DRN-2352430
The complaint
Mrs K, via her representative Mr R, complains that Regency Investment Services Limited 
(Regency) did not offer her suitable advice as her personal circumstances were not fully 
considered. Mr R has said that the charges were excessive and not fully disclosed to Mrs K. 
What happened
Mrs K met with an advisor from Regency in June 2017 who was recommended by friends. 
The advisor completed a fact find which covered Mrs K personal circumstances, her financial 
arrangements including assets and liabilities and her attitude to risk. These were details 
were summarised in a letter sent to Mrs K in June 2017.
The advisor followed up this summary letter with a financial report which was sent to Mrs K. 
This report included his recommendations and how the investments would be held. The 
report also included details on what fees would be charged.
The advisor also recommended that various bank accounts and other investments be 
consolidated and these recommendations were carried out. A sum in excess of £1 million 
pounds was invested with a third-party fund manager on a discretionary basis. The cash was 
invested in a portfolio with a risk rating of cautious.
The investments were held for a period of around 10 months before Mrs K informed 
Regency that she wished to withdraw all her assets. Mrs K gave the reason for exiting the 
relationship as she did not think it was the right option for her.
Mr R complained to Regency in April 2019. This complaint covered various issues including 
Mrs Ks vulnerability, her personal and financial circumstances, costs and fees that were 
charged and how her assets were invested. Regency investigated the complaint but they did 
not believe that they had done anything wrong and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with Regencys response, Mr R referred the complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint. Our investigator upheld the complaint as she did 
not believe that the assets were invested in a portfolio which matched Mrs Ks attitude to 
risk.
Mr R, on behalf of Mrs K, and Regency did not accept the investigators view and have 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the submissions from Mr R and Regency, I agree with the view of the 
investigator for much of the same reasons and will be upholding the complaint.
The complaint raised by Mr R covers various points and these were covered off by the 
investigator. I will also give my comments on these points.
Charges were excessive 
Mr R says that the charges were not fully disclosed or adequately explained to Mrs K. I have 
reviewed the information that was sent to Mrs K and the charges were disclosed in 
Regencys letter of 14 June 2017. 
The initial fee for the work undertaken by Regency was £7,500. Its a commercial decision by 
a business on how their fees are set and the service cant comment on whether charges are 
excessive  this is for the business to set and for the customer to decide if they wish to use 
the service. Having reviewed the letter of 14 June 2017, I think that the charges were 
properly disclosed and appear fair and reasonable in the circumstances of what activities 
they covered.
The letter of 14 June 2017 also details the ongoing service fees and platform fees which 
would be payable once the cash is invested. I think that these are clear and not hidden. 
These charges were also recorded in Regencys Service and Fee Agreement which was 
signed by Mrs K and dated 27 June 2017. As Mrs K has signed this agreement, I need to 
assume that she read and understood what fees were to be charged.
I think that the fees and charged were properly disclosed and I will not be asking Regency to 
do anything else.
Mrs Ks status as a vulnerable client 
Mr R says that Mrs K was not assessed as a vulnerable client given her age, circumstances 
and lack of knowledge.
I have looked at what Regency have said on this matter. They have said that although they 
had not labled Mrs K as a vulnerable client they took careful consideration of her 
circumstances and provided the care and attention that her circumstances required.
This area has seen significant focus over the last few years and the regulator, FCA has 4 
areas where a client may be classed as vulnerable:
health  disabilities or illnesses that affect the ability to carry out day-to-day tasks
life events  major life events such as bereavement, job loss or relationship breakdown
resilience  low ability to withstand financial or emotional shocks
capability  low knowledge of financial matters or low confidence in managing money 
(financial capability) and low capability in other relevant areas such as literacy, or digital 
skills
The fact find questionnaire records Mrs K as 72 and in fairly good health following surgery 
some years earlier. There was nothing to suggest that her health prevented her from 
carrying out day to day tasks.
Mrs K was widowed but this was not recent and there was nothing to suggest that there was 
a recent life event that was affecting her when she met with Regency.The fact find and financial report details her income and financial liabilities and these were 
considered when recommendations were made. There was nothing to suggest that Mrs K 
had poor financial resilience.
Mrs K held investments and multiple bank accounts and Regency recommended that these 
be consolidated. It is generally accepted that if a client has financial instruments, a certain 
amount of knowledge or competence in this area can be relied upon. Regency did note this 
fact in their risk questionnaire but they have recorded that Mrs K was not very familiar when 
it comes to investments.
I can see that in discussions with Regency regarding further investments using available 
cash, Mrs K wished to keep cash available rather than being invested. This suggests she 
was capable making informed decisions on financial matters.
From the documents that I have seen and read, there is nothing that would suggest that Mrs 
should have been classed as a vulnerable client. I dont think Regency did anything wrong in 
how they treated Mrs K.
Mrs Ks attitude to risk 
Mr R says that Mrs K should have been classed as a very cautious investor as she had no 
financial experience.
When a firm provides advice to a consumer it must assess attitude to risk. This means what 
risk the consumer is comfortable with  the more risk averse a consumer is, the less risk is 
taken. If a consumer is happy to take investment risk then a higher degree of risk is taken 
with the chosen investments.
Regency took Mrs K through their risk questionnaire and although I cant be sure what was 
said in the meeting as I wasnt there, I will proceed based on the balance of probability of 
what was discussed.
The risk questionnaire is made of several areas and asks questions. The consumer picks the 
answer or statement that best suits their understanding or preference. I will assume that the 
advisor at Regency took Mrs K through this questionnaire and recorded her answers. I can 
see that Mrs K signed this document.
The attitude to risk is noted as cautious based on a culminative score. A score of less than 
19 would class the consumer as very cautious. A score of between 19 and 40 would be 
recorded as cautious. I note that Mrs Ks score was 39 and recorded as cautious.
Having reviewed Mrs Ks personal circumstances and financial knowledge, I think that this is 
a fair and reasonable assessment and I dont think that Regency have done anything wrong 
in recording Mrs Ks responses as being a cautious investor.
Mrs Ks income needs were not taken into account and income was not distributed from the 
investments
Mr R says that Mrs Ks income needs were wrongly stated and that her income needs were 
not followed through. Mr R says that income was not distributed but reinvested.
I have reviewed the income details which were provided to Regency. I note that Mrss K did 
not have any liabilities and this is often one of the areas that would require income to be 
generated from the investments but one of Mrs Ks objectives was to generate an income 
from the investments. Regencys letter to Mrs K 14 June 2017 mentions that the level of investment income desired could be discussed and in a later letter dated 21 July 2017, the 
advisor asks Mrs K to confirm what level of income she wanted to take. 
Regency have said that further requests were made to Mrs K about the level of income 
required but the information was never provided by Mrs K. As Regency have asked for this 
information, I dont think that they have done anything wrong so I wont be asking them to do 
anything else.
Suitability of advice 
When a business provides advice, it will produce recommendations based on the personal 
circumstances including the consumers attitude to risk. I have already covered earlier that 
Regency had classified Mrs Ks attitude to risk as cautious, I am satisfied that Regency 
assessed Mrs Ks attitude to risk fairly and properly.
Going forward, a business should only recommend investments that correctly match the 
consumers attitude to risk. When our investigator reviewed the complaint, they held the view 
that the fund where the cash was invested, breached the risk definition of cautious and was 
more appropriate to that of a medium balanced risk investor. I have reviewed this in some 
detail as it is central to the whole complaint. On balance, I agree with the views of the 
investigator for the following reasons:
The guidance text contained in the financial questionnaire that Mrs K completed which 
records her as cautious says:
Approximately 40% of investable assets will be in equities over the long term although 
this may fluctuation between 20% and 55% over the investable period.
In 2017, the fund that Mrs K was invested showed that equities made up 40% and a 
further 23.5% in alternatives. Alternative investments are higher risk investments in 
nature and the overall composition of the fund needs to be considered. This means that 
part of Mrs Ks fund with equities and alternatives totalled 63.5% which is above the 
stated 40% guidance for a cautious fund and the upward limit of 55%.
In 2018, the fund that Mrs K was invested showed that equities made up 39% and a 
further 21% in alternatives. This means that part of Mrs Ks fund with equities and 
alternatives totalled 60% which is above the stated 40% guidance for a cautious fund 
and the upper limit of 55%.
Having considered the composition of the fund in 2017 and 2018, I dont think that the 
risk can be classified as cautious.
The investigator has said that asset allocation can fluctuate from year to year and it can 
be shown that the allocations in the underlying fund where Mrs K was invested changed. 
I think that on both allocations there is a disconnect between the attitude to risk that 
Regency recorded Mrs K as having as the subsequent fund that her assets were 
invested into.
As the assets were invested into a fund that were more suited to a medium or balanced 
investor, I think that the advice was unsuitable.
I am aware that Regency placed reliance on a third-party fund manager and Regency did not 
manage the fund but this outsource arrangement is the responsibility of Regency.In summary, I think that Regency properly assessed Mrs Ks personal and financial 
circumstances. I think that they disclosed the fees and charges that were payable by Mrs K 
correctly, but I think that the provision of advice which meant that Mrs Ks funds were 
invested in a fund that carried too much risk resulted in the advice being unsuitable.
  
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim should be to put Mrs K as close to 
the position she would probably now be in if she been given suitable advice.
I have reviewed the investigators thoughts on how the position should be corrected and 
think that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Regency Investment Services Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mrs Ks investment with that of the
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr and Mrs N in a clear, simple
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date) Additional 
interest 
James 
Hambro 
and 
Partners 
Cautious 
FundTransferred   For half the 
investment:
FTSE 
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total 
Return 
Index 
For the 
other half:
Average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investment Date  
transferred 8% simple 
per year on 
any loss 
from the 
end date to 
date of 
settlement 
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, you should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England.
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates 
to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs K wanted income with some growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mrs Ks risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mrs K into that position. It does not mean that Mrs K would have 
invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mrs K could have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk 
attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since 
the end date.
Further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, clicking 
on:
Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit rates - Fixed rate 
bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman