DRN-3756933
Complaint
Mr O has complained about a personal loan Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as Better 
Borrow) provided to him. He says the loan was provided irresponsibly proportionate checks 
would have shown that he was gambling unsustainable sums of money.
Background
Better Borrow provided Mr O with a loan for £5,000.00 in May 2022. This loan had an APR 
of 19.6% and the total amount to be repaid of £7,546.65, which included interest fees and 
charges of £2,546.65, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £125.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr O and Better Borrow had told us. He thought that 
Better Borrow hadnt treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. Mr O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Os complaint.
Better Borrow needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Better Borrow needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr O could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Better Borrow says it agreed to Mr Os application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out which showed his existing his commitments were 
relatively well maintained at the time of the application. According to Better Borrow the 
checks showed no use of payday or other high-cost type lending. In Better Borrows view all 
of the information it gathered showed that Mr O could comfortably afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr O has said he was already in financial difficulty because of his 
gambling and proportionate checks would have shown he couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr O and Better Borrow have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Better Borrow has provided the details of its credit 
searches. Better Borrow having carried out credit checks shows that it didnt simply rely on 
what Mr O said and that it took some steps to check at least some of the information he 
provided in his application. 
Better Borrow searches appear to show that Mr Os existing commitments were relatively 
well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Os debt total at the time of 
the applications was also reasonable in comparison to his income. And there isnt anything 
else obvious in the information gathered which leads me to think that further checks would 
have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Os actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Better Borrow obtained. I also acknowledge that 
if Better Borrow had gone into the depth of checks Mr O appears to be saying it should have 
 such as obtaining bank statements  it would have realised why Mr O might not have been 
able to make his payments and may well have reached a different answer. 
But the key here thing is that I dont think the circumstances of the lending here warranted 
obtaining bank statements. Better Borrow wasnt lending a huge amount  especially when 
compared to Mr Os income. And given the circumstances, Id expect it to have a reasonable 
idea of Mr Os income and committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here, rather 
than a complete review of Mr Os finances.
Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into the level of checks Mr O is suggesting.  
As this is the case, I dont think that Better Borrow did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr O - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Better Borrow treated Mr O 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Os 
complaint. I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr O. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
Even though Im not upholding Mr Os complaint, Id also remind Better Borrow of its 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration should it be the case that Mr O 
cannot make his payments as a result of experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman