DRN-4037761
The complaint
Ms C has complained about the termination of her car finance agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
In August 2018, Ms C entered into a finance agreement with VWFS for a car. The amount of 
finance was £13,948.26, with monthly repayments of £203.08.
Ms C has explained that in May 2020, she entered into an informal agreement with VWFS to 
reduce the repayments to £150 a month. This continued until January 2021, when Ms C 
resumed her full repayments. However, Ms C contacted VWFS in August 2021 and was told 
her agreement had been terminated. Ms C was unhappy with this, as shed made 
repayments every month, and wanted to pay the £504 that was outstanding.
VWFS said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said it had sent Ms C a default notice in July 
2021. It didnt hear back from Ms C so, after the notice expired in August, it terminated the 
agreement.
Ms C brought her complaint to our service, as she felt VWFS had acted unfairly by ending 
the agreement. She also said that when the car was collected, personal belongings had 
been in it.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. And although he sympathised with 
Ms Cs circumstances, he didnt think VWFS had done anything wrong. In summary, this 
was because:
when Ms C contacted VWFS on 16 August 2021, her agreement was in arrears by 
£504, and had been terminated on 6 August when the default notice from 17 July 
expired;
although thered been an informal agreement for reduced payments starting in May 
2020, the arrears had still been accruing, so VWFS had sent default notices on 13 
May 2021 and 17 July 2021;
the notice sent on 17 July said Ms C needed to pay the arrears, or contact VWFS, by 
5 August, otherwise the agreement would be terminated and the car repossessed; 
and
Ms C didnt contact VWFS until 16 August, by which time the agreement had been 
terminated.
Ms C disagreed. She said that when she spoke to VWFS about the reduced repayments, 
she was told the arrears wouldnt be classed as arrears, but would be added on to the end 
of the agreement. She also wanted to know where the personal items left in the car have 
gone.
The complaint was then passed to me. I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint, and issued 
a provisional decision, asking both parties to respond with any further submissions. In my 
provisional decision, I said as follows.
-
I know the situation has been very distressing for Ms C, and I sympathise. But Ive had to 
consider whether VWFS behaved unfairly, and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that VWFS sent Ms C two default notices, and it was entitled to end the 
agreement when the arrears werent satisfied, and it didnt hear from Ms C by the date of 
5 August 2021, which had been stipulated. Im also satisfied it had shown reasonable 
forbearance, as Ms C had been given breathing space with a period of reduced 
repayments. Also, Ms C could have contacted VWFS to discuss her situation, by 5 August 
as requested, but she didnt. I understand that she was having a difficult time, but hadnt 
contacted VWFS for a considerable time, despite default notices and a number of text 
messages.
As regards what would happen with the arrears, I can see that on Ms Cs call with VWFS in 
May 2020, she asked about adding the sums to the end of the agreement/as part of the 
balloon payment. VWFS responds that it isnt doing that as yet, but it may be a possibility in 
the future. But this was never agreed. So I cant agree that the arrears didnt need to be paid 
back until the end of the agreement.
Ive also looked at Ms Cs concern about her personal belongings, which havent been 
traced. As Ms C had received notice of the termination, and complied with the agent who 
collected the car, Im satisfied she had the opportunity to remove any personal belongings. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to hold VWFS responsible for anything missing after the 
event.
-
VWFS responded to say it had nothing to add.
Ms C said she disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, she said:
she was told in her very first call that the outstanding sum would be added to the 
balloon repayment; 
she didnt receive the notices, and did try to call back, but nobody returned her calls; 
and
shes a vulnerable person.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. This is for the same reasons as I set out in 
my provisional decision.
The call I have listened to is very clear in setting out that VWFS would not be adding the 
outstanding sum to the balloon payment. As this is the call where the reduced repayments 
are agreed, I dont think Ms C would have reasonably thought differently. I appreciate that things can become muddled, particularly in stressful circumstances. But Im satisfied that  
in the call where the reduced repayments are agreed  the position was made clear to Ms C.
As regards whether Ms C received the notices, Im satisfied, on balance, that she did. A 
large number of reminders were sent, in different formats (e.g. email and text), so Im not 
persuaded that she wouldnt have been aware that the outstanding sum needed to be paid, 
and by when.
Im sorry that Ms C has experienced a difficult time. I dont underestimate this. But I feel 
VWFS behaved reasonably, by agreeing to reduced repayments. It also asked Ms C to 
contact it to discuss things, but I have no evidence that she did.
I know this will be very disappointing, but Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman