DRN-3661697
The complaint
Mr F complains that Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGIC) 
unfairly declined a claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is quite straightforward and known to both parties, so Ive 
only summarised events.
Mr F took out a policy online with CGIC in July 2019 to insure his dog.
In December 2021 he made a claim following his dogs treatment for Lethargy Acute 
vomiting and Diarrhea. 
CGIC declined the claim and stated its policies do not cover any claims where the 
condition or signs and symptoms were present prior to inception of the policy. And it 
set out the policy wording relating to a pre-existing condition.
It said Mr F didnt disclose any pre-existing condition for the Digestive System 
although it was discussed with his vet in 2011. And had he done so it wouldve 
applied an endorsement to exclude all claims with respect to the Digestive System 
from inception of the policy.
Mr F was unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think CGIC had acted fairly in 
adding the exclusion as it couldnt fairly conclude the condition claimed for was pre-
existing. And CGIC hadnt shown there had been a misrepresentation by Mr F.
CGIC disagreed. It said from reading the clinical notes the dog had ongoing 
stomach/digestive issues, and had it been told about this it wouldve placed an 
exclusion on the policy for digestive, vomiting and diarrhea. And asked that an 
ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and broadly for the same reasons, so 
Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The issues at the heart of this complaint are did Mr Fs dog have a pre-existing condition and 
did Mr F make a misrepresentation to CGIC.
CGIC has highlighted an episode of sickness in August 2017 in addition to the consultation 
for vomiting and lethargy in 2011. It says the dog had ongoing stomach/digestive issues. 
And it has shown evidence that an exclusion for the digestive system would be applied for 
pre-existing vomiting. Ive considered what CGIC has said, and the clinical notes from 2017 
which detail diarrhoea and lethargy but theres nothing stating the dog had experienced 
vomiting in 2017. 
Im not persuaded these 2 episodes can fairly be described as ongoing issues. There is no 
evidence of a link between the 2 episodes, which took place 6 years apart, and there are 
different symptoms in the clinical notes. More important however is evidence that Mr Fs vet 
has said in her professional opinion the acute onset of the issues claimed for in 2021 are not 
related to any previous incident.
 
CGIC havent provided any expert evidence to dispute the evidence provided by Mr Fs vet. 
So on balance Im satisfied the minor, isolated incidents with no reoccurrence of the 
symptoms experienced are not pre-existing conditions. And Im not persuaded the exclusion 
has been fairly applied.
When Mr F renewed the policy in 2021 he wasnt asked if his dog had any pre-existing 
conditions. He was asked if he wanted to cover any pre-existing medical conditions for his 
dog and Mr F answered no. 
Ive thought about what Mr F knew about his dogs medical history. And, for the reasons Ive 
outlined above, I find it was reasonable for Mr F to think his dog didnt have any pre-existing 
conditions, and importantly he wasnt asked if it did. As Mr F wasnt asked if his dog had any 
pre-existing conditions Im satisfied he hasnt made a misrepresentation to CGIC.
On balance, Im satisfied Mr F didnt make a misrepresentation and, in the circumstances of 
this case, I find it unreasonable for CGIC to apply an exclusion and decline the claim.
Putting things right
CGIC should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, including any excess that might apply.
It should also pay Mr F 8% simple interest on any settlement made for the period from 5 
January 2022, when the claim was declined, to the date any settlement figure is paid. 
If CGIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Casualty and General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman