DRN-2933625
The complaint
Ms B says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has unfairly refused her claim for critical illness 
benefit. Instead of paying her claim, it has voided her policy altogether for misrepresentation.
To resolve her complaint, Ms B wants her policy to be reinstated, her claim to be considered 
and an apology from Aviva for the way it has treated her.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision to the parties on 6 July 2021. I invited the parties to make any 
further submissions, after which I explained I would issue my final decision. I havent 
repeated the background here, as it is known to the parties. However, a full copy of the 
findings set out in that decision is provided in italics below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I believe that this 
complaint can no longer succeed. I realise this will be a further disappointment for Ms B. 
I understand that Ms B has no intention of keeping her policy going in any capacity with 
Aviva, and so my first provisional findings of a proportionate remedy were not the resolution 
she sought in any event. But, for the reasons I explained in my first provisional decision, I 
believed that she had made a misrepresentation and under relevant consumer insurance 
law, it was a qualifying misrepresentation  meaning Aviva was entitled to amend or void 
the contract depending firstly on the categorisation of the misrepresentation and secondly, if 
careless, whether it would have offered insurance terms at all.  
However, the additional submissions that Aviva has supplied changes my view of this 
complaint relating to the categorisation of the misrepresentation. Whilst I still recognise that 
under the ABI Code there were other credible mitigating circumstances which explained Ms 
Bs reason for believing her symptoms were attributable to a diagnosis of Vitamin B12 
deficiency, Aviva has now pointed to evidence which confirms this was not a firm diagnosis.
A GP record of 9 November 2015 (the follow up after the diagnosis of the deficiency) 
provided Ms B with information on pernicious anaemia. But, it was also explained to Ms B 
that if she didnt respond, she would need a neurological referral (which was undertaken the 
day after the application). I accept that this does impact my previous findings.  
I say that because as well as being mindful of the relevant ABI industry guidance, I will take 
account of consumer law on disclosure and representations in insurance contracts when 
deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The law requires that it is 
for the insurer to show that a qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. It then 
further sets out that it is to be presumed, unless the contrary is shown(a) that the 
consumer had the knowledge of a reasonable consumer, and (b) that the consumer knew 
that a matter about which the insurer asked a clear and specific question was relevant to the 
insurer. 
I recognise that the medical record referred to of 9 November 2015, on the balance of 
probabilities, confirms that Ms B knew, or must have known, that the information given on 
her application of 25 November 2015 was both incorrect and relevant to Aviva. And while I 
am not suggesting that she did so recklessly (which would be acting with clear disregard), 
what I must consider is whether Aviva reached a fair and balanced conclusion on that 
evidence, noting that I have already agreed in my previous findings that there was a 
qualifying misrepresentation.  
I now believe that Aviva did reach a reasonable conclusion, as pernicious anaemia was 
shown not to be a firm diagnosis. In fact, it was a provisional assessment of the likely cause 
of her symptoms. Ms B was therefore aware (or must have been aware) at the time of 
completing her application that her GP would refer her to hospital for a neurological 
assessment if things did not improve. That is different to the assessment I previously gave, 
which was based on the referral occurring after a pernicious anaemia diagnosis which had 
not resulted in a separate neurological referral until after the application was completed. 
As Ive said above, I am sorry that my further assessment will no doubt be an even greater 
disappointment for Ms B. But Aviva has now been able to discharge its burden of 
demonstrating that Ms Bs case does fall into the deliberate/reckless misrepresentation on 
balance of the evidence, as defined by both the relevant law and industry guidance. 
In the event of misrepresentation that is either deliberate or reckless, an insurer can void a 
policy altogether  and this is what Aviva has already done, returning Ms Bs premiums to 
her. Im therefore unable to order or compel it to reach a different assessment and reinstate 
life cover -even if Ms B had wanted to accept that outcome as that is not the appropriate 
remedy for this type of misrepresentation.    
Neither party responded to the provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has any further comments for me to consider, my provisional findings 
remain unaltered.  
My final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has reasonably refused Ms Bs claim and voided her 
policy in the circumstances of misrepresentation. I therefore cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman