DRN-2438795
The complaint
Ms M complains on behalf of her parents, Mr and Mrs M, about Bank of Ireland (UK) Plcs 
handling of an incoming transfer into their account. Ms M is also unhappy about 
communication issues with Bank of Ireland. Ms M wants Bank of Ireland to refund £60 her 
parents incurred for a tracing fee and to pay them compensation.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs M lived abroad for a number of years so they receive a pension which is paid 
into an account they hold with an overseas bank  which Ill refer to as Bank S. On 20 
November 2019, Mrs M asked Bank S to transfer approximately £8,000 to her Bank of 
Ireland account. 
Over the next three weeks Mrs M was told by Bank of Ireland the funds hadnt been 
received. During this time, Mrs M was told by Bank of Ireland to put a trace on the missing 
funds, this was arranged by Bank S. Ms M says Bank of Ireland gave incorrect information 
about the whereabouts of the funds and they were unhelpful and disinterested. 
Ms M complained to Bank of Ireland and they responded to say the payment was sent with a 
value date of 13 December and the funds were credited to Mr and Mrs Ms account 
immediately upon arrival. They apologised for information given to Mrs M during a phone call 
on 11 December. They said they had provided feedback to the branch. Bank of Ireland said 
the funds were applied to the account on the date specified so there hadnt been any error 
by them. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
   
Our investigator looked into things for Ms M and felt that Bank of Ireland hadnt acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. Ms M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Transfer of funds 
Bank of Ireland have sent us information which shows they made internal enquiries to find 
out what had happened to the funds. I can see that between 4 December and 9 December 
internal emails were sent to other departments at Bank of Ireland to enquire about the funds. 
There is an email saying there was no record of these funds and, having checked the 
accounts, there was no funds for £8,000 outstanding. 
Bank of Ireland have also provided transaction details which show Bank S sent the funds on 
20 November with the value date being 13 December. Bank of Ireland have also sent us 
information which shows the funds were received into Mr and Mrs Ms account on 13 
December. Bank of Ireland wasnt responsible for entering a value date so I cant hold them 
responsible for the funds not being received sooner.  
Ms M has provided a transaction receipt which shows the value date as 22 November. I can 
also see from an email from Bank S to Mrs M, they confirm the date of 22 November on the 
transaction receipt is an expression of the value date. They say the funds should be in the 
recipient account by this date which is two days after the funds were sent. This evidence 
does conflict with the evidence provided by Bank of Ireland but the focus of my decision is 
whether there has been any errors by Bank of Ireland. Ive carefully reviewed all of the 
information provided and more than one piece of evidence shows Bank of Ireland received 
the funds on 13 December. And, nothing I have seen shows that the funds were received 
into Mr and Mrs Ms account at any point before this date. So, while I dont disagree 
information from Ms M shows a value date of 22 November, Bank of Ireland had no control 
over when the funds were received. 
I do understand though why Ms M is concerned about this. Funds have been sent from one 
bank and not received into Mr and Mrs Ms account until over three weeks later. So, I do 
appreciate this raises questions about where the funds had been over this period. Our 
investigator has approached Bank of Ireland to see if they are able to shed some light on 
what happened to the funds. They have said that its for a sending bank to investigate this by 
reaching out to banks on the payments chain. In such transactions there will be other 
intermediary banks involved but generally that shouldnt lead to a delay of three weeks for 
funds to be received. So, I do understand why this event has caused worry for Ms M and Mr 
and Mrs M, but I cant say Bank of Ireland have done anything wrong in relation to this part 
of the complaint. 
Communication 
I note Ms M says that on 4 and 6 December, Mrs M was told by a branch manager that he 
had repeatedly attempted to call another office for assistance but had been unable to get 
through to them so he was unable to help. Information provided by Bank of Ireland shows 
that the branch manager did make internal enquiries and had to chase on occasions. So, I 
cant see that the branch manager was in a position to provide a more substantive update 
between 4 and 6 December because he hadnt yet received a response following his internal 
enquiries. A few days later, Bank of Ireland established they hadnt received the funds and 
that is when they informed Mrs M to ask Bank S to put a trace on the funds. 
Ms M says Mrs M was told by Bank of Ireland that the funds had been located but had gone 
to the wrong bank so they would need to be returned to Bank S. I note Ms M says this 
caused Mrs M further worry when the funds werent returned to Bank S. Our investigator has 
asked Bank of Ireland for a recording of the phone call but they have explained they arent 
able to supply this as there are no recordings of branch calls. I can see however that Bank of 
Ireland has apologised and have provided feedback to the branch. I think this is reasonable 
in the circumstances.         
I understand Ms M says Mr and Mrs M didnt receive updates and often had to chase Bank 
of Ireland to find out what was happening. I do appreciate this was a stressful time for Mr 
and Mrs M but the information I have seen shows Bank of Ireland were making efforts to find 
out whether the funds had been received and werent in a position to provide a more 
substantive update until they had fully established the funds hadnt been received.   
In summary, I dont think Bank of Ireland have acted unfairly and unreasonably as the 
evidence shows the funds werent received until 13 December. The funds were then 
processed shortly after being received. And, I think Bank of Irelands apology for the 
communication issue is reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman