DRN-2180860
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P complain that when Mrs P passed away Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander), sold Mrs Ps caravan without 
obtaining a Return of Goods Order from the Courts. They are also unhappy Mrs Ps 
possessions and decking were disposed of.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Santander, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
right to repossession
The relevant legislation is the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Section 90 explains that in a 
conditional sale agreement, such as the one the late Mrs P had with Santander, if more than 
one third of the sum due under the agreement has been paid, the creditor (Santander) are 
not allowed to recover possession of the goods without a court order.
This is also set out under the finance agreement were Santander explain:
If you do not keep your side of this agreement but you have paid one third of the total 
amount payable under this agreement  we may not take back the goods against your 
wishes unless we get a court order. If we do take the goods back without your consent or a 
court order you have the right to get back any money you have paid under this agreement.
The Consumer Credit Act goes on in section 91 to explain that, when goods are recovered 
by the creditor in contravention of section 90, the agreement should be terminated, and the 
debtor should be released from all liability under the agreement and be entitled to recover 
from the creditor all of the payments made under the agreement.
There is no dispute that the late Mrs P had paid more than one third and that Santander 
therefore were wrong to repossess the caravan without a court order.
Ive considered whether Mr P, on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs P, gave consent to 
Santander to recover the caravan but I dont think that was ever the case. In October 2018 
he wrote to Santander and said, we are not prepared to sell or relinquish (the caravan) .
Santander should therefore terminate the agreement and refund all of the payments that 
have been made.
the late Mrs Ps possessions and the decking
Ive not seen evidence that Santander told the caravan park to inform the estate of Mrs P 
about the sale of the caravan or the removal of the late Mrs Ps possessions and the decking 
that surrounded the caravan. 
It had been some time since theyd last been in touch and I think its fair to suggest that 
whilst the estate of Mrs P may have been expecting further communication they would not 
have been expecting Mrs Ps possessions to be removed, or the decking to be dismantled.
So, I think Santander should compensate the estate of Mrs P for the loss of the possessions 
as its been confirmed these have been destroyed and can no longer be recovered. There 
should also be some consideration about compensation for the decking which the estate of 
Mrs P have explained was dismantled before they had a chance to remove it.
There is no list of the possessions that were removed so Ive had to consider what is a fair 
level of compensation.
I would agree with the investigators suggestion that Santander should pay the estate of   
Mrs P £500 in respect of the loss of possessions and the loss of the decking. I say that 
because:
I dont think its likely the possessions were worth a great deal. I think, if they were, 
the estate of Mrs P would have removed them much earlier;
I think if the possessions were extensive the caravan park would have been more 
hesitant before disposing of them without creating an itinerary;
Its clear the decking was bespoke as it had been purchased from a previous 
occupant of the caravan park. Whilst I can understand that bespoke decking is 
expensive I am not persuaded that it has much value if recovered. I think the fact it 
was already second hand when the late Mrs P took receipt of it would suggest it 
would have been subjected to quite a bit of wear and tear.
I can understand the concern about the removal and disposal of possessions without giving 
the family notice. But, given the lack of evidence of what those possessions were, I think 
£500 is a realistic and fair level of compensation to ask Santander to pay.
Putting things right
Santander should terminate the finance agreement, refund all payments made under it and 
provide compensation for the loss of possessions and the decking.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
terminate the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
refund all payments made under the agreement to the estate of Mrs P;
pay the estate of Mrs P £500 to compensate it for the loss of the late Mrs Ps 
possessions and the lost decking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman