DRN-4406013
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) withdrew travel insurance 
from their packaged account because of Mr Ms age. They say the packaged should be 
made cheaper as they are no longer able to benefit from the travel insurance.
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the age limit on the travel policy, as they say BoS provide 
another more expensive account that includes travel insurance with an age limit of 80.
What happened
In its final response to the complaint, BoS said that the age limit in the travel insurance 
provided by the Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) are part of the terms and 
conditions of the account. BoS said that if Mr and Mrs M no longer think the URCA meets 
their needs, it offers a range of other accounts and provided a telephone number for Mr and 
Mrs M to discuss alternative accounts.
After Mr and Mrs referred their complaint to our service, one of our investigators assessed 
the complaint and she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used this to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint, essentially for the same reasons the investigator gave.
Firstly, I should explain that although this case is against BoS, it is the insurance
underwriter who is responsible for setting the terms, conditions, exclusions and eligibility
requirements of the travel insurance policy.
Therefore, I can only consider this case in the context of BoS providing travel insurance as
a benefit of its fee-paying URCA account. It appears that there has always been an age limit 
on the URCA travel insurance of around 70 since Mr and Mrs M first upgraded to the URCA 
in 2011. And it doesnt appear to be in dispute that BoS made Mr and Mrs M aware of the 
age limit. So, its clear that BoS did what it is required to do in terms of making Mr and Mrs M 
aware of the age limit on the URCA travel insurance policy.
Turning to The Equality Act 2010, I appreciate that it banned age discrimination in the
provision of goods and services. And I note that Mr M says that BoS has discriminated 
against him due to his age. But, as the investigator explained, there is an exception in the 
relevant laws for providing financial services such as travel insurance. In summary, they 
allow a bank (or insurance provider) to continue to use age as a factor in designing, pricing, 
and offering its insurance products.
Im sure Mr and Mrs M are aware that most travel insurance policies have upper age limits 
included in their insurance policies  it is essentially standard industry practice to include 
such limits (although I understand there are specialist policies that now include very high age 
limits or no age limits at all). And having considered the specific circumstances of this 
complaint, Im unable to agree that BoS has treated Mr and Mrs M unreasonably or unfairly, 
because Mr M became ineligible for the travel insurance provided by the URCA due to his 
age.
I note that Mr and Mrs M have asked for a reduced monthly fee, due to Mr M no longer being 
covered by the URCA travel insurance. But the URCA that Mr and Mrs M have is a 
packaged account. This means that in return for a monthly fee, account holders receive a 
package of benefits. However, as the benefits included with the account are provided as a 
package, this means that account holders cannot pick and choose what benefits the account 
come with. This also means the account fee is a set monthly amount, regardless of how 
much or little the benefits are used by the account holders. 
Therefore, if account holders no longer think a packaged account represents good value for 
money, for example if they are no longer eligible for one or more of the products (as is the 
case here), or they simply dont need some of the products included in the package, then it 
is up to the account holders to change account. And as the account operates on a monthly 
rolling basis, Mr and Mrs M can downgrade their account whenever they want. Because of 
this, I cant say that BoS is being unreasonable by not reducing the cost of the URCA 
because Mr M became ineligible (and was aware hed become ineligible) for one of the 
insurance benefits on the account due to his age, but chose to keep paying the monthly fee 
for the URCA.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs M say that BoS provide another, more expensive, packaged 
account that includes travel insurance that includes more extensive cover with a higher age 
limit. Im not sure which product Mr and Mrs M are referring to. But I cant reasonably say 
that BoS should provide them with that account but at the same price as the URCA, just 
because they are unhappy with the age limit on the URCA travel insurance. Afterall, it seems 
reasonable that a package account that provides better levels of cover would cost more. 
Its also the case that BoS was under no obligation to make Mr and Mrs M aware of this 
alternative product once Mr M was no longer eligible for the URCA travel insurance cover. 
Although I can see in the final response letter, BoS did offer to discuss its other accounts 
with Mr and Mrs if they didnt want the URCA anymore.
So having considered everything, Im unable to say that BoS has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman