DRN-3656641
The complaint
A company Ill call W has complained about the settlement offered by AXA Insurance UK Plc 
for its business interruption insurance claim and about the way AXA handled the claim.
Mr P, a director of W, has brought the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
W held a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. It operates a swimming pool.
The pool started to leak in February 2020. W had to close the pool until the leak had been 
investigated. It claimed on the policy for its business interruption losses. In March 2020 the 
pool would have had to close anyway due to lockdown restrictions.
AXA said it would consider the claim for the period up to the date when the pool would have 
had to close due to lockdown restrictions. W complained that the claim should be covered up 
to the date the pool was repaired in July 2020 as the leak and the lockdown restrictions were 
unconnected. W also complained about delays in dealing with its claim.
AXA didnt change its mind about the settlement. It apologised for the delays which it said 
were due to staff sickness and paid £200 compensation for that.
W brought its complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She thought AXA was correct in only covering Ws loss for the period outside the 
government lockdown. She also thought AXAs compensation for the delay was reasonable. 
W asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no cover in the policy for business interruption loss caused by Covid-19 or the 
lockdowns. There is cover for business interruption loss caused by property damage such as 
subsidence.
In Ws insurance policy the various definitions used to calculate the business interruption 
loss such as Rate of Gross Profit, Annual Turnover etc are qualified by the following 
words:
to which such adjustments shall be made as may be necessary to provide for the trend of 
the Business and for variations in or other circumstances affecting the Business either 
before or after the Incident or which would have affected the Business had the Incident not 
occurred so that the figures thus adjusted shall represent as nearly as may be reasonably 
practicable the results which but for the Incident would have been obtained during the 
relative period after the Incident.
This is known as a trends clause. Such clauses are common in business interruption 
policies  for quantifying a policyholders financial loss. They have the effect that insurers are 
not liable for losses which would have arisen regardless of the insured peril because of the 
consequences of a trend. In the case of The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch 
Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC1 the Supreme Court explained the purpose of trends 
clauses: 
The aim is to achieve a more accurate figure for the insured loss than would be achieved 
merely by a comparison with the prior period  and to seek to arrive at a figure which, 
consistently with the indemnity principle, is as representative of the true loss as is possible.
In this case the Incident was subsidence. Applying the trends wording I think AXA was 
correct to approach the claim by seeking to ascertain what Ws trading position would have 
been if the subsidence hadnt occurred. In my opinion the government lockdown and 
restrictions imposed by law would have undoubtedly caused a significant downturn in Ws 
turnover. I dont think AXA treated W unfairly in relying on the trends clause to adjust the 
settlement figure to reflect this.
AXA said the claim was delayed for about three months due to staff sickness during 
lockdown. I appreciate that this would have been inconvenient for W. But I think AXA has 
recognised that and the amount of £200 it has paid is fair to compensate W for that.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to W. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to increase its settlement or the compensation 
for the way it handled the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman