DRN-3110725
The complaint
Mr K complains that Temple Finance Limited trading as Perfecthome irresponsibly gave him 
several hire purchase agreements he couldnt afford to repay.   
What happened
In 2018, Mr K took out four separate hire purchase agreements with Perfecthome in order to 
acquire various electrical goods. A brief summary of the agreements are below:
Agreement Start date Cash price of 
goodsTerm Weekly 
repaymentTotal 
repayable
1 March 2018 £196 78 weeks £3.95 £308.10
2 April 2018* £196 78 weeks £3.95 £308.10
3 April 2018* £311 156 weeks £3.99 £622.44
4 May 2018 £196 52 weeks £5.13 £266.76
 *Agreements 2 and 3 were taken out on the same day. 
In 2020, Mr K complained to Perfecthome to say that the agreements had been unaffordable 
to him. Perfecthome didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it carried out reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before lending to Mr K and that these checks showed the 
agreements were affordable. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said that while some of the 
evidence Perfecthome provided was incomplete, he didnt think Perfecthome acted unfairly 
in granting the first agreement. This is because the information it had about Mr Ks financial 
circumstances indicated it was likely to be affordable. However, he felt that Perfecthome had 
acted unfairly in granting the remainder of the agreements. This was because it should have 
carried out more thorough affordability checks prior to approving agreements 2 and 3. The 
adjudicator was of the view that proportionate checks would likely have shown Perfecthome 
that Mr K couldnt afford these agreements. 
To put things right the adjudicator said that Mr K should only have to pay the original cash 
price of the goods taken out with agreements 2 and 3, meaning all interest and charges he 
paid, be refunded to him. He noted that Perfecthome had already refunded everything Mr K 
had paid under agreement 4 so no further redress was required in relation to that 
agreement. 
Mr K accepted the adjudicators recommendation. Because Perfecthome didnt respond, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Perfecthome will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before providing Mr K with agreement 1, Perfecthome says it completed a credit check and 
asked Mr K for details about his weekly income and expenditure. Perfecthome hasnt 
provided much detail about what its credit check showed but Ive seen a copy of Mr Ks 
credit file that he has provided. This does show he had some outstanding credit 
commitments at the time he entered into agreement 1, but he was maintaining payments 
towards them. Given this and the income and expenditure information Mr K provided at the 
time, Ive not seen anything to make me think Perfecthome ought to have concluded 
agreement 1 was likely to be unaffordable to Mr K. 
Agreements 2 and 3 were taken out on the same day and only a few weeks after agreement 
1 was taken out. The income information Perfecthome recorded for agreements 2 and 3 was 
significantly different to what it had recorded for agreement 1  it was nearly three times 
larger. Its also not clear if Perfecthome asked Mr K about his expenditure at this time. As 
agreement 1 was still running, Mr Ks weekly commitments to Perfecthome will have 
increased significantly and given the large discrepancy in the income recorded, I think it 
would have been proportionate and reasonable in the circumstances to have verified Mr Ks 
financial circumstances. 
I cant be sure what evidence Perfecthome would have asked for had it completed 
proportionate checks. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed copies of Mr Ks bank 
statements from the time and I think these give a good indication of what Perfecthome would 
most likely have discovered. 
The statements show that Mr Ks income was significantly lower than the figure recorded for 
agreements 2 and 3. Further, he was regularly taking out payday loans and other forms of 
high cost credit. It appears many of them had been entered into at around the time Mr K took 
out agreement 1 with Perfecthome. Mr Ks regular committed expenditure had therefore 
significantly increased after taking out agreement 1 and it didnt appear that his income was 
sufficient to meet all of his existing commitments. I think reasonable and proportionate 
checks would most likely have shown this to Perfecthome. 
Given that agreement 4 was taken out only a few weeks later, its likely Perfecthome would 
have concluded that agreement to be unaffordable too, had proportionate checks been 
completed. I therefore dont think it acted fairly in granting agreements 2, 3 and 4. 
Putting things right
It seems that Perfecthome has already refunded all the payments Mr K has made towards 
agreement 4, so I dont propose to make any further award in relation to that agreement, 
except to say that it should remove any adverse information it may have recorded on Mr Ks 
credit file in relation to that agreement. 
As I dont think agreements 2 and 3 should have been given to Mr K, I dont think its fair for 
Perfecthome to apply interest and charges to those agreements. However, as Mr K had the 
benefit of the goods he received, I think its fair he pays the cash price of those items. 
To put things right, Perfecthome should therefore:End agreements 2, 3 and 4 with nothing further to pay. 
Refund everything Mr K has paid towards agreements 2 and 3, less the original cash 
price of the goods. The refund should include any warranty or insurance products 
that may have been added onto the agreements. 
Perfecthome should add 8% simple interest to the above refunds from the date that 
Mr K would have overpaid the cash price of the goods to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ks credit file in relation to agreements 2, 3 
and 4.
If Perfecthome considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it 
should provide Mr K with a certificate show how much its taken off, so that he can reclaim 
that amount, if he is eligible to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Temple Finance Limited trading as 
Perfecthome to put things right in the manner Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman