DRN-1978107
The complaint
Miss T has complained that George Banco Limited acted irresponsibly when it accepted her 
as guarantor for a loan.
What happened
Miss T entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a £6,000 loan that 
Banco provided to the borrower, who I shall refer to as Mr C, in March 2019. The loan has 
been described by Miss T as a top up to a previous loan that she had also guaranteed for 
Mr C. The top up loan was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just over £269. The 
total amount payable including interest was just over £16,194.
It seems that the borrower has stopped making payments on the loan so Banco has pursued 
Miss T for payments as guarantor. Miss T says her financial circumstances have changed; 
she cannot afford to make the repayments and is in contact with Step Change. Miss T wants 
Banco to release her from the guarantee and indemnity agreement.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ts complaint. She didn't think that Banco had been 
wrong in accepting Miss T as the loan guarantor. Miss T didnt agree with this assessment 
and asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter. So the complaint has been passed to 
me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans 
 including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Banco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't act irresponsibly when it 
accepted Miss T as a guarantor for the borrowers loan application. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what it means for Miss Ts complaint. In doing so, I have asked some key questions:
Did Banco obtain Miss Ts properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
Did Banco carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did 
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time? 
Ultimately, did Banco make a fair lending decision when it accepted Miss T as loan 
guarantor?
Has Banco acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Banco obtain Miss Ts properly informed consent to become guarantor for the loan?
Banco says it had telephone conversations with Miss T to discuss her becoming guarantor 
for the loan - as well as contact online. Miss T had to take steps during the process to 
actively confirm that she was willing to act as loan guarantor. Miss T has complained that 
she wasnt given enough information at the time about the top up and that she hasnt been 
given enough information subsequently. Banco has provided only limited information about 
what happened at the time but Ive listened to a recording of a telephone conversation that 
Miss T had with Banco as part of the application process.
In the telephone recording Banco explained to Miss T that it would retain some of £6,000 
loan and pay out just over £3,009. I think its likely that Miss T understood that this would pay 
off the balance of the borrowers first loan. Banco also explained the monthly instalments to 
Miss T and checked her understanding of her obligations as a guarantor. Banco asked Miss 
T if she had any queries to raise about the loan or the application process. Miss T said that 
she didnt and that she had discussed it all with the borrower. Overall I think Miss T did 
agree to guarantee the loan and I think she also understood that she might be called upon to 
repay the loan, if the borrower didnt meet the loan repayments himself. 
Did Banco  carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Banco had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T 
would be able repay the loan sustainably, as guarantor, if she was called to do so - as she 
was equally liable with the borrower for this debt. There was no set list of checks that Banco  
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the guarantors overall 
financial circumstances. 
Banco says it asked Miss T for information about her income and expenditure and it carried 
out some credit checks. Banco says that, based on the information Miss T provided and 
what it found in its checks, there was nothing to suggest that Miss T wouldnt be able to 
afford the loan, if she was called upon to make the repayments.
There was some adverse information on Miss Ts credit report but the information that she 
provided about her financial position would seem to suggest she could have covered the 
loan repayment each month, if called to do so. However, in the circumstances, I dont think 
the checks Banco carried out were reasonable or proportionate. Given the amount being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the length of the loan term, I think Banco should 
reasonably have taken steps to further investigate some of the information that Miss T was 
providing - in order to satisfy itself that Miss T could sustainably repay the loan, over an 
extended 60-months period, if required. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Banco make 
a fair lending decision when it accepted Miss T as loan guarantor?
Even though I think that Banco shouldve carried out better checks at the time, it doesnt 
automatically follow that Banco was wrong to accept Miss T as guarantor for the loan.
Miss T has provided us with copies of her bank statements so I can determine what Banco might have discovered, if it had carried out more thorough checks at the time.
Miss Ts account remained regularly in credit leading up to the loan. There is no apparent 
evidence of serious gambling nor are there a significant number of returned requests for 
payment  both of which might have suggested to the lender that a consumer was facing 
severe financial difficulties. Miss Ts financial circumstances overall appear to broadly reflect 
what she told Banco at the time.
I accept what Miss T has told us about her financial circumstances now having changed and 
that she is struggling to meet the loan repayments as the borrower is no longer paying the 
loan. I think its likely that Miss T didnt expect to be called upon as loan guarantor and that 
she expected the borrower to repay the loan in full. 
But I have to consider what Banco would have discovered at the time, if it had done what I 
consider to be proportionate checks, and whether this should reasonably have led it to 
conclude at the time that it ought to decline her application to guarantee the borrowers loan.  
I cannot fairly say, even if Banco had carried out better checks, that it should have 
reasonably concluded that Miss T was having problems managing her money. Or that she 
would be unable to afford the loan repayments and therefore it ought to decline her 
application to be loan guarantor. 
I am sorry that Miss T finds herself in a difficult situation, but I cant fairly conclude that 
Banco shouldnt have accepted her application as loan guarantor or that it acted in a way 
that was irresponsible at the time.
Has Banco acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Taking everything into account I cannot say, in the circumstances, that I think Banco has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss T. But I would expect Banco to continue to 
pursue the borrower for repayment of this loan. I also remind Banco of its obligation to treat 
Miss T with forbearance and due consideration. Banco should try and agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss T, if it is going to continue to pursue her for loan repayments as 
the loan guarantor.
I appreciate that Miss T will be disappointed by my decision. I would like to reassure her that 
I have considered everything that both she and Banco have told us, but I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint or make any 
award against George Banco Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman