DRN-2243247
The complaint
Mr V complains that he lost out due to the exchange rate Lloyds Bank PLC used when it 
converted payments received in dollars to sterling. 
 
What happened
Mr V was working abroad between June and December 2019 and paid in dollars. Mr V sent 
CHAPS payments in dollars to his Lloyds account. Lloyds converted Mr Vs funds to sterling 
before paying them into his account. Lloyds also charged a £7 CHAPS fee. 
Mr V later complained as he felt the exchange rates Lloyds had used didnt reflect the 
market rates available. Lloyds responded on 25 November 2019 but didnt agree any errors 
had been made. Lloyds said it uses information obtained from Visa to update its exchange 
rates and that the rates available can differ from local rates advertised.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Vs complaint but didnt find that Lloyds had 
made an error. Mr V asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has complained that the rate Lloyds used doesnt match Visas published exchange 
rate. But, the account terms and conditions set out how Lloyds will convert funds it receives 
in a foreign currency before paying them into a customers account. They dont say Lloyds 
will use Visas exchange rate. The terms say Lloyds will use its standard exchange rate 
when calculating the currency conversion. 
The relevant section of the terms says: 
If we receive an electronic payment or cash in a foreign currency, we will convert it into 
pounds using our standard exchange rate or your method of payment before we pay it into 
your account 
The terms then say: 
What rates and charges apply to these payments? 
If you want to make an electronic payment into your account you can find out our current 
standard exchange rate by calling us Please note the rate may change by the time we 
receive the payment. 
We may take our charges for dealing with electronic payment before we add it to your 
account. 
I can see that Lloyds final response explained that it used information from Visa to update 
its rates. But thats not the same as saying it simply used the rate set by Visa. Our 
investigator has explained that Lloyds will have applied its own margin when deciding how to 
set its standard exchange rate. 
I appreciate why Mr V is upset as he has received less than expected. But, Lloyds has 
converted the payment it received into sterling in line with the account terms. I havent found 
anything that shows Lloyds tried to mislead Mr V about the exchange rates it would use or 
that its made a mistake. As a result, I havent been persuaded to uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman