DRN-3484052
The complaint
Ms K complains about TSB Bank Plc blocking access to her current account. 
What happened
Ms K notified TSB in September 2021 that she would be travelling abroad for over a year. 
In November 2021, TSB blocked a number of payments Ms K was trying to make. Each time 
Ms K confirmed the payments were genuine. 
Ms K was unhappy that TSB had blocked the payments after shed told them she was 
abroad. She said this had caused her to lose interest as she couldnt transfer her savings to 
a new account and shed been caused considerable distress and inconvenience. 
TSB said the transactions were stopped by its fraud prevention system  so they hadnt 
done anything wrong. But they did acknowledge Ms K had to wait on hold and was then cut 
off when speaking to the fraud team, so they offered Ms K £50. 
An Investigator considered Ms Ks complaint. He said, in summary, TSB had shown that 
Ms Ks transactions had been stopped by their fraud prevention system and he didnt think it 
was unreasonable that the bank required Ms K to contact them by phone to confirm the 
transactions were genuine. And he thought the £50 was reasonable in relation to the calls to 
the fraud team. 
Ms K didnt agree with the Investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks have fraud prevention measures in place. These are designed to protect 
customers and the bank. Its for financial businesses to decide how their fraud prevention 
measures operate and which transactions will be subject to further checks. And the terms 
and conditions of Ms Ks account set out when TSB could refuse to make a payment or stop 
access to her accounts. And although Ms K had told TSB she planned to be abroad before 
leaving for her trip, this wouldnt stop the transactions being picked up as the system is 
automated. So I dont find TSB made a mistake by stopping transactions and access to 
Ms Ks accounts. 
Ms K was unhappy because the stopped payments required her to call the bank. Making 
telephone calls from abroad to the UK is expensive so Ms K said she had to travel over two 
hours to a secure phone she could use and that she was left without access to money while 
the account remained blocked. 
I can see Ms K contacted TSB by email and asked them to use a messaging app to contact 
her instead. But I dont think TSB were obliged to do this and these arent secure methods of 
communication. So given that TSB wanted to check whether the use of Ms Ks account was 
genuine, I dont think its unreasonable that they wanted to speak to her by phone to do this.
 
I understand why Ms K was reluctant to make an expensive phone call from abroad. But, 
attempting transactions on UK accounts while being abroad for an extended period of time 
will inevitably be more inconvenient than it otherwise would be. And I dont think this is 
something TSB is responsible for. Similarly, Ms K has said she didnt have access to other 
funds during this time and had to rely on a friend to help her. But again, as I dont think TSB 
did anything wrong by stopping access to Ms Ks accounts I dont think TSB are responsible 
for this either. 
When Ms K did call the bank, she had to wait a long time. Thats because of the volume of 
calls the fraud team was dealing with and then, during a call, she was cut off. TSB offered 
Ms K £50 in recognition of this. I think this is fair. TSB also offered to arrange a time to call 
Ms K and put her through to the fraud team to save her the cost of calling. And TSB invited 
Ms K to submit evidence of any other costs shed incurred  like call costs  if she wanted 
them to consider covering those. So overall I think TSB took appropriate steps to assist 
Ms K. 
I can understand why Ms K was so worried. She was abroad, without access to her accounts 
which contained a substantial amount of money and felt like she had no way of contacting 
the bank other than by email. I can also understand Ms Ks frustration that further payments 
were stopped after shed confirmed the previous ones were genuine. But, as Ive explained, 
Ive found TSB did not make a mistake by blocking Ms Ks account in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman