DRN-2343696
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about QIC Europe Ltds decision to turn down their subsidence claim 
made under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H made a claim under their policy after noticing cracking to their garden path 
and walls. QIC arranged investigations and found there was damage to the drains that may 
have been causing the damage. 
QIC turned down the claim. The policy explains that for a subsidence claim to be paid, the 
damage would have needed to have affected the main house, which QIC said hadnt 
happened. Although Mr and Mrs H had accidental damage cover under their policy, QIC 
didnt think the damage had happened suddenly. Unhappy with QICs decision, Mr and 
Mrs H brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought QICs decision to 
turn down the claim was fair and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the subsidence section of the policy, it sets out what is not covered. It says:
loss or damage to septic tanks, domestic fixed fuel-oil tanks in the open, drives, patios, 
footpaths, terraces, gates, fences, hedges, swimming pools, hot tubs, hard tennis courts, 
boundary and garden walls, unless the main building which you live in is damaged at the 
same time. 
When QICs expert first inspected the property, they observed there was cracking in the 
garden path directly in front of the property and the lower step leading to the front door. They 
said there was no indication of cracking to the structure of the property itself. They thought 
the garden path may be subsiding, and noticed further cracking to garden walls. It was noted 
that a drain ran along the same line as the garden path, and so they thought there may be 
failure of the drain.
A drainage company inspected the drains. A CCTV survey was carried out, which found 
multiple cracks and joint displacements between two manholes. They carried out a hydraulic 
test to see if water could leak though, and found that it was constantly leaking through the 
joints. A further CCTV survey was carried out of a redundant line which ran into one of the 
manholes. This also showed a displacement, which they thought may have been 
contributing to the issues. Finally, it was noticed that there were multiple cracks and 
displacements and minor root ingress located in the drain that ran across the front of the 
property where the reported problem was the most significant.
The drainage company thought the cause of the subsidence was possibly down to the 
drainage system having cracks and displacements, as leaking water could be washing away 
the dirt and sand from the property over time.
The water company also carried out an inspection, and their findings made reference to 
various cracks in the pipes they inspected.
QIC then arranged for a further surveyor to carry out an inspection (Mr M). Mr M noticed the 
various crack damage to the garden path and walls, as well as concrete around a manhole 
cover. He also noted there was a fracture to the base of the concrete steps leading up to the 
front door. Mr M said his inspection highlighted no evidence of subsidence damage to the 
main building. He thought the cause of the subsidence in the garden could be due to poor 
compaction of the sub-base material, varying changes in ground moisture, prolonged 
leakages from defective drainage, or the action of frost during the winter months. Mr M also 
thought the cracking to one of the walls was due to lateral forces exerted upon the wall due 
to hydrostatic pressure.
Mr and Mrs H argue that the steps leading up to the house form part of the main building, 
and therefore the main building was damaged. Theyve referred to a previous decision 
issued by this service which made reference to an insurer accepting that external steps 
formed part of a main building.
I think the point to consider here is whether the steps are integral to the structure of the main 
building or not. If they are, then I think itd be reasonable to say they formed part of the main 
building. 
There are four steps leading up to the front door with walls to either side. Its not clear from 
the photo whether those steps are integral to the structure of the main building.
Mr and Mrs H employed the services of a structural engineer (Mr R) to provide them with 
options for repairs to the property. They havent shared that engineers report with this 
service, as the engineer wasnt asked to investigate the reasons for the ground movement. 
However, we asked Mr and Mrs H to contact Mr R and find out if he thought the steps 
leading to the house were integral to the structure of the house or not. 
Mr R responded and stated clearly removal of support to the front door steps and the 
adjacent side walls, due to ground movement, would cause pulling on and damage to the 
front wall of the property.
I appreciate that if the support to the steps and side walls were removed this would cause 
damage to the front wall of the property, but I dont think Mr Rs comments support that 
without the steps, the structural integrity of the house would be compromised. 
Consequently, I dont think Mr and Mrs H have shown that the steps leading to their house 
formed part of the main building. This is also supported by Mr Ms view that there was no 
subsidence damage to the main building. Im therefore satisfied that it was appropriate for 
QIC to turn down the claim under the subsidence section of cover as the main building 
wasnt affected.
Ive also considered whether it was reasonable for QIC to turn down the claim under the 
accidental damage section of coverThe policy defines accidental damage as:
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which:
i. happens at a specific time; and
ii. was not deliberate; and
iii. was caused by something external and identifiable
Taking into account the nature (and extent) of the damage to the drains reported by the 
drainage company, I think it was reasonable for QIC to conclude that the damage didnt 
happen suddenly, and therefore wouldnt be considered accidental. Im therefore also 
satisfied that it was reasonable for QIC to turn down the claim for accidental damage.
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman