DRN-1988126
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex), trading as Land Rover Contract Hire, failed 
to collect a car he was returning that was the subject of a finance arrangement he had with 
them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I understand that Mr M is upset that the car wasnt collected immediately after he agreed to 
return it in October 2017 and that hes been charged the monthly finance instalments whilst 
the collection was arranged.
Ive reviewed the business call logs and can see that they had tried to contact him in 
November 2017 to arrange collection but had been unable to. In December there are two 
records that demonstrate there was a request to extend the collection date, one says;
The car has been located at a company address, customer is away and stranded abroad, 
due back 8/1 and will arrange recovery the following week
A further call record explains that recovery was completed on 15 January 2018.
Ive listened to the call recordings the business provided but there is nothing in those call 
recordings that contradicts the information in the call logs. I therefore think its most likely   
Mr M was not contactable in November and an extension of the collection date was 
requested until January 2018.
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask the business to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman