DRN-4469564
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse him a loss 
he says he suffered at the hands of fraudsters.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In early 2023, Mr C received a call from a third-party business which offered him an 
opportunity to enter a program. This program was designed to assist people in setting up an 
e-commerce business and boost sales.
Mr C was sent an agreement regarding the program and was instructed to make a payment 
of £5,000 for its services. Mr C made this payment from his NatWest account on 28 
February 2023. 
After making the payment and receiving instructions from the business, Mr C decided that 
the commitment to the program was too much as he was unaware how much work was 
required. So, he contacted the business and asked it for a refund.
On 9 May 2023, Mr C received a refund into his account from the business for £1,000. But 
the business failed to respond to his requests to refund the remaining balance. This led Mr C 
to believe hed been the victim of a fraud.
Mr C contacted his bank and reported the fact that hed been defrauded. NatWest looked 
into Mr Cs complaint but didnt offer to reimburse him his loss. It pointed out that the 
business appeared to be legitimate and that the matter was a civil dispute between both 
parties. Mr C didnt agree, so he asked our service to look into his complaint.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. They concluded that the business did appear to be genuine and 
therefore NatWest had no obligation to consider reimbursing Mr C his loss.
Mr C disagreed. He remained of the opinion that he had been defrauded, so the matter has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position in law is that Mr C will generally be considered liable for authorised 
payments. Its accepted that he authorised the payment in dispute and so he is liable for it at 
first instance. However, NatWest is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. Under that Code, firms are expected to reimburse 
customers who fall victim to fraud, subject to a number of exceptions.
However, the Code is only relevant if Im persuaded Mr C did fall victim to a fraud. It 
specifically says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a Customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received 
them 
Likewise, good industry practice requires that NatWest be on the lookout for account activity 
that might been indicative of a fraud risk. On identifying a payment that is out of character or 
unusual to the extent that it might have posed such a risk, it ought to intervene in a manner 
proportionate to that risk. However, much like the CRM code, these requirements dont apply 
to genuine payments made to legitimate businesses.
So, taking into consideration the above, I must first decide whether Mr C has likely been the 
victim of fraud or not. Having considered all of the evidence in this case, I find it more likely 
than not that Mr C has not been a victim of fraud in this instance. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, but I will explain how Ive come to this conclusion below.
Cursory online research of the business he transacted with doesnt demonstrate a likely 
probability that the business was operating fraudulently. It is a registered business that was 
incorporated several years ago. The business still has a functioning website which Id have 
expected to have been disabled had multiple reports of fraud been made against it. Ive also 
checked well-known review websites which show mixed reviews of the business online, but 
no persuasive evidence the business was, or is, operating fraudulently.
Ive also considered Mr Cs specific dealings with the business to determine if it appears to 
have misrepresented itself when offering its services. Mr C hasnt provided us with all 
communications between him and the third-party business, but from the correspondence he 
has sent it doesnt appear the business has misrepresented itself.
Mr C has provided an agreement he had signed and agreed to. The contract sets out what 
the business will provide and what the expectations of Mr C were. It provides the fee it 
charges for its services and sets out what its cancellation policy is. The cancellation policy 
clearly states that a refund will only be issued where certain requirements are met  of which 
includes launching e-commerce products.
Mr C has admitted that once he saw what he was required to do as part of the program, he 
no longer wanted to participate and asked for a refund. This meant that it was Mr C rather 
than the business that wanted to terminate the contract. And even though Mr C hadnt 
fulfilled his requirements under the program, he was still refunded £1,000 of the fee he paid 
on 9 May 2023.
While this didnt represent the full amount paid, I find it unlikely a business operating 
fraudulently would have refunded him any amount.
Taking all of the above information into account, I find it more likely than not that Mr C hasnt 
been defrauded here. It appears he was dealing with a legitimate business and decided to 
terminate the contract himself, resulting in a partial refund.
I realise Mr C would like to be reimbursed in full. But that is a matter between him and the 
third-party business that took the fee. I dont find it fair or reasonable to hold NatWest 
responsible for reimbursing Mr C his loss where it hadnt made an error in processing the 
payments in line with Mr Cs instruction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman