DRN-2380711
The complaint
Mr B complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a personal 
property claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was on holiday in August 2019, when his bike was stolen from outside a restaurant. Mr 
B obtained a Police report and made a claim under the personal property section of his 
policy for the cost of the bike and its lock.
URV turned down Mr Bs claim. It said its policy defined what it meant by possessions and 
that bikes werent included within this exhaustive list.
Mr B wasnt happy with URVs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) that hed been sent didnt explain that 
bikes werent covered by the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She noted that Mr Bs IPID 
stated that there was cover for personal possessions of up to £1000 if they were lost, stolen 
or damaged. But she didnt think the IPID suggested this included cover for bikes. And she 
didnt think bikes fell within URVs definition of a possession. The investigator didnt 
consider that bicycle cover was something which would usually be included in a travel 
insurance policy. So she didnt think URV had needed to highlight that the policy didnt 
include bicycle cover during its sales process. Overall, she thought it was fair for URV to turn 
down Mr Bs claim.
Mr B disagreed. He said it was normal for travel insurance policies to cover bikes. And that if 
URV didnt cover bikes, this shouldve been drawn to his attention when he bought the 
policy. He added that when hed previously taken out travel insurance, bicycle cover has 
been offered for an additional premium.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I sympathise with Mr Bs position, I think it was fair for URV to turn 
down his claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other 
things, the policy terms and conditions and all Mr Bs said and sent us in deciding whether 
URV handled his claim reasonably.
Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr Bs policy because these form the basis of his 
contract with URV. Ive looked closely at both the IPID and the policy terms, as these set out 
the things URV does and doesnt cover. Towards the top of the IPID, it states that the 
summary doesnt contain the full terms and conditions of cover, which can be found in the 
policy document. The IPID summarises some of the things which are insured and says:
The policy covers up to the following:
If your possessions are lost, stolen or damaged £1000.
The IPID doesnt state that bikes are insured and it doesnt explain what URV means by 
possessions. So Ive looked at the definitions section of the policy to see what URV means 
by possessions and to decide if it was fair for URV to conclude that Mr Bs claim wasnt 
covered.
URV has included an exhaustive list of items it considers to be possessions which can be 
claimed for if theyre lost; stolen or damaged. The broad headings are: clothes; cosmetics; 
luggage; electrical items and photographic equipment; drones; jewellery and watches; 
buggies, strollers and child car seats; laptops; eyewear; duty free; shoes and valuables.
Its clear that this list doesnt include bikes, or other means of adult transport. Ive looked at 
the items listed within each of URVs broad headings and bikes arent set out as being 
included. So I think it was fair for URV to conclude that the theft of a bike wasnt something 
covered by the Personal Property section of the policy.
I appreciate that Mr B says hes been able to buy travel insurance which does include 
bicycle cover. And I know he considers that the absence of bicycle cover shouldve been 
highlighted to him. But I agree with the investigator that while bicycle cover seems to have 
been important to Mr B, this isnt something that Id generally consider to be a significant part 
of a travel insurance policy which Id expect a seller to specifically highlight during the sale. I 
say that because I dont think its a core part of a travel insurance policy. Its generally an 
added extra. 
Overall, despite my sympathy with Mr Bs position, because I know hes been left 
significantly out of pocket following a theft, I dont think it was unfair for URV to decide his 
claim wasnt covered. This means I think it was fair for URV to turn down Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman