DRN-1399817
 
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with Prepay Technologies Limited because she was unable to withdraw 
her money from one of its prepaid cards. 
What happened
Ms M was on holiday in June last year when she attempted to withdraw money from her 
prepaid plastic card using the ATM. Ms M said there was enough money on the card for her 
to complete the transaction and so could not understand why it didn't work. Ms M said this 
ruined her holiday as she was unable to buy gifts for her friends and family. She would like 
Prepay to acknowledge the impact this had on her holiday experience overall. 
Prepay said it was sorry to learn of the difficulties Ms M experienced, however it said the 
issue wasn't with its card as it authorised her request for the money. 
Our investigator said Prepay had evidenced that it released the funds when requested 
initially, and so she didn't think it fair to hold Prepay responsible. She said it was most likely 
another problem that prevented Ms M's cash dispensing.
Ms M didn't agree. She said she spoke to the bank attached to the ATM and that it explained 
there wasn't an issue with their machine. She provided an email from the bank as evidence. 
Ms M also said that when she returned home, she wanted to withdraw the remaining funds 
in Euros rather than pounds. She also questioned whether she had to pay the ATM charge 
for the failed transaction.  
And so it's for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I won't be upholding
Ms M's complaint. My reasons for doing so are largely similar to those already given by our 
investigator in that there's no evidence that persuades me that Prepay made a mistake. I'll 
explain why. 
Prepay has provided the transaction history for Ms M's prepaid card. This shows the 
transaction in question being requested and authorised. The amount was then debited from 
the remaining balance. This is what I'd expect to see in these circumstances. I note Ms M 
made further attempts to withdraw the money, but these were declined as there wasn't 
enough available funds on the card following her initial transaction. And so I don't think 
Prepay has done anything wrong here. 
I've seen the email provided by Ms M from the branch where the ATM is situated, which she 
suggests shows there wasn't an issue with the ATM, but I'm less persuaded by it. I say that 
because it's simply an email drafted by an employee at the bank which states there wasn't a 
cash difference with the ATM for that particular day. But Prepay's evidence offered a more forensic explanation which persuades me that whatever the problem was, it wasn't Prepay's 
fault. 
I've considered Ms M's request to have the funds returned to her in Euros. Prepay refunded 
her money in Pound Sterling because the terms say it will return credit balances this way. 
And so I don't think it's done anything wrong here either because it's acted within the 
boundaries of the terms and conditions. Ms M received the full amount of money back and 
wasn't charged the ATM fee either. I fully accept Ms M's argument that the last day of her 
holiday was significantly impacted by this, but I don't think it'd be fair to hold Prepay 
responsible for this for the reasons I've explained. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint for the reasons I've explained.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Scott Slade
Ombudsman