DRN-4063136
The complaint
Mr A complains that ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED trading as Mackenzie 
Hodgson mis-sold him a personal accident policy.
What happened
Mr A was involved in an accident when riding his motorbike. Hed purchased a personal 
accident policy but had multiple issues when he tried to claim on it. Mr A says that ATLANTA 
mis-sold him the policy and shared his data with another business. 
Mr A has made other complaints which arise from the same accident which include: 
A complaint against ATLANTA about customer service. Our investigator upheld this 
complaint and awarded a total of £150 compensation for poor service. That included 
Mr A spending lots of time on hold, being given a number to call which wasnt 
answered and being given the wrong information on multiple occasions. 
A complaint about a business Ill refer to as T. T offered Mr A £400 compensation. 
That figure was based on Mr As calculation of what hed have been entitled to claim 
from other personal accident policies available on the market.
A complaint about a business Ill refer to as M. M offered Mr A £375 compensation 
because he was wrongly told his motorbike was roadworthy, when it wasnt.
ATLANTA issued a separate final response letter in relation to this complaint. ATLANTA said 
that whilst they felt the policy documentation issued was clear in explaining what was 
covered under the personal accident policy, they were upholding the complaint. They said 
that the agent failed to provide Mr A with key information at the time of purchasing the policy. 
They offered to refund the premiums in full, pay £50 to cover one nights hospitalisation and 
£150 compensation. This brought the total compensation to £229.95.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He thought the offer was fair and 
reasonable. Mr A didnt agree. In summary, he disagreed that hed taken out the policy 
online  he said the policy was purchased over the phone. He also said that a company that 
had cold called him said ATLANTA had given them his details. 
The investigator looked into how the policy was taken out in more detail. He concluded it 
was most likely that Mr As application started online but that he had to phone ATLANTA to 
complete it. On balance, he was satisfied that Mr A had the opportunity to check the cover. 
Whilst he acknowledged Mr A had found alternative cover, with different benefits, he didnt 
think it was likely that Mr A would have made a different decision about this policy at the 
point of sale.
Mr A didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He reiterated that he 
did not go onto ATLANTAs website and had gone via a price comparison website which 
only gave basic details about the policy. He said the investigator had ignored the issues 
relating to the useless documents and the phone number which didnt work. He also queried 
why ATLANTA couldnt tell him who the insurer was and why theres no name of the insurer 
on the documentation. In summary, Mr A felt a number of his concerns, and evidence hed 
provided, had been ignored or overlooked.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of Mr As accident. Hes explained how its affected his 
physical and mental health. Its clear the difficulties he experienced making his claim added 
to his worry at an already difficult time. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. I am not required 
to comment on every piece of evidence or argument presented by Mr A or ATLANTA. My 
decision will focus on the key points which I think are relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
As Ive outlined above Mr A has made other complaints and the focus of this complaint is 
whether the policy was mis-sold. Mr As complaint to ATLANTA was that the policy was mis-
sold because it claimed to cover bodily injury. He said it wasnt fit for purpose and was 
completely mis-sold as he was injured but left with no compensation.   
ATLANTA has offered to refund the premiums to Mr A, pay him £50 to reflect a hospital 
benefit payment and £150 compensation. I think thats a fair and reasonable offer for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain.  
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
ATLANTA didnt give Mr A advice about taking the insurance policy out. That means that the 
relevant rules and industry guidelines say that ATLANTA had a responsibility to ensure that 
Mr A had enough information to decide if the policy was right for him. That includes giving 
him information that is clear, fair and not misleading.
Was the policy mis-sold? 
ATLANTA acknowledged in their final response letter that the agent failed to provide Mr A 
with key information. ATLANTA says that the sale arose from an online quote, but Mr A was 
asked to contact them when he went to put in his registration number. I dont think its necessary for me to listen to all the calls Mr A made to ATLANTA about the 
policy. This complaint is about the sale of the policy and Im satisfied I have the relevant call 
where Mr A discussed the personal accident policy as part of the sales process. This is the 
same call that ATLANTA have referred to as the call where the agent failed to give Mr A key 
information. 
During the conversation with Mr A the agent highlighted some information about the policy to 
him. I dont know if Mr A had seen more information about the policy online, or not. In this 
particular case I dont think its central to the outcome of this complaint. 
ATLANTA accepts the information could have been made clearer during the call. In any 
event, even if I thought that Mr A didnt have sight of any documents online and the key 
information wasnt highlighted to him during the relevant  call, I still think the post-sale 
documentation gave Mr A enough information to decide if the policy was right for him. Ive 
seen a welcome letter and the policy documents that were sent to Mr A. The date of the 
correspondence is the same date as the phone call where the policy was discussed so I 
think it was most likely to sent to him at that time. The documents explain what the policy 
covers. If Mr A didnt receive the documents, I think it would have been reasonable to expect 
him to chase up a copy so he could check the level of cover available. 
Mr A could cancel the policy at any time. Mr A therefore had the chance to review the policy 
and decide if it was right for him. If he had concerns about the type or level of cover 
available, he could have cancelled it. The fact that he didnt suggests that its most likely he 
was happy with the level of cover. I appreciate Mr A is now aware that other policies offer 
different benefits but thats not something I can hold ATLANTA responsible for. They didnt 
have any obligation to explain how this policy compared to others available on the market in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Mr A said that the investigator hadnt dealt with some of his complaint points. And, in 
summary, he didnt think it was fair to say that because hed accepted compensation in 
another case it meant that he shouldnt receive more compensation as part of this complaint. 
Our investigator upheld a different complaint about ATLANTA and awarded compensation to 
Mr A for spending lots of time on hold, being given a number to call which wasnt answered 
and being given the wrong information on multiple occasions. So, I dont think the 
investigator has ignored the issues about misinformation or the phone not being answered. 
Rather, they arent addressed in this particular complaint because its about the mis-sale of 
the policy.
Ive also taken into account what Mr A has said about the policy documentation not naming 
the insurer. The policy document has a section which says, who is your insurer?. It explains 
in that section who underwrites the policy. Its also mentioned on the schedule of insurance. 
I dont know why it took ATLANTA so long to be able to confirm who the insurer was. But, 
Mr A has already been awarded compensation for the failings in the claims handling as part 
of a separate complaint. My decision is focused on Mr As complaint that the policy was 
mis-sold.   
I think the compensation offered by ATLANTA is fair and reasonable. I think it fairly reflects 
that Mr A experienced some distress and inconvenience because he wasnt given key 
information about the policy during the call. But, I also bear in mind that he was sent the full 
policy documentation and could cancel at any time. So, overall, I think the refund of the 
premiums and the additional compensation fairly reflects any distress and inconvenience 
caused.  Did ATLANTA pass on Mr As details to a third party?   
Ive not seen any persuasive or compelling evidence that ATLANTA passed on Mr As 
details to a third party. Mr A says a company who cold called him told him ATLANTA was 
responsible. Mr A hasnt provided any further evidence in support of that. 
Ive not seen any compelling evidence to corroborate what Mr A was told by the third party 
who called him. So, on balance, I dont think theres enough information for me to safely 
conclude it is most likely that ATLANTA passed on his details to a third party when they 
shouldnt have done.  
Putting things right
I think the refund of the premiums, payment for one nights hospital stay and the £150 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable. 
ATLANTA needs to pay Mr A a total of £229.95 compensation if it hasnt done so already. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr As complaint to the extent Ive outlined above. ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE 
SERVICES LIMITED trading as Mackenzie Hodgson has already made an offer to pay 
£229.95 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED trading as 
Mackenzie Hodgson should pay Mr A £229.95. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman