DRN-4463411
The complaint
Mr W has complained of a mis-sale and poor service by Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) regarding his home appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W reported to D&G that his kitchen hob had developed a fault in January 2023 as hed 
held a D&G policy since September 2021. Mr W complained that D&G had given him advice 
to obtain the policy as well as a manufacturers warranty, but his home insurance also 
covered accidental damage. He thought D&G hadnt assessed his needs properly and the 
policys suitability. He said D&G referred him to the manufacturers but had been given the 
impression D&G would deal with all faults. He considered this amounted to a mis-sale. 
Mr W referred his complaint to D&G however it maintained its stance. In the circumstances, 
Mr W then referred his complaint to this service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold Mr 
Ws complaint as he considered that D&G had provided a sufficient explanation of cover 
during the initial telephone call with Mr W and didnt consider that it had mis-sold the policy. 
He said D&G hadnt been told that Mr W already had cover under his buildings policy, and 
hed expressed a wish for accidental damage cover to be in place. He didnt think it 
unreasonable for D&G to refer Mr W to the manufacturers to see if any damage would be 
covered by them firstly under the initial warranty, prior to consideration under the policy.
In summary, whilst the investigator thought that D&G could have made it clearer at the point 
of sale, that it may first refer an issue to the manufacturers if the fault happened within the 
warranty period. He nevertheless felt that Mr W would still have taken out the policy, based 
on his conversation with D&G and his desire for accidental damage cover to be in place. He 
suggested that Mr W contact D&G and the manufacturers directly in relation to any 
outstanding repairs.
Mr W remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. In the circumstances, the case 
has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said hed had an issue with his kitchen hob which had been kindly purchased for him 
as a gift. He said that D&G had advised in 2021 that a policy would ensure that any potential 
issues he had with the hob would be covered against all eventualities. After some time, he 
did have an issue with the hob and called D&G to make a claim. The claim was then referred 
to the manufacturer under the warranty. Mr W said that when D&G sold the policy to him, it 
gave him the impression that D&G would handle all claims, and indeed, that was the point of 
paying the premium. 
Mr W considered it would have been a reasonable assumption that D&G would first arrange 
an inspection to assess the claim and determine if there had indeed been accidental 
damage. As it stood, Mr W considered that hed paid premiums for nothing as he hadnt 
received a refund or an inspection. Mr W also said that when he complained, he didn't 
receive a call as requested and just received a final response. 
In summary, he said This policy wasn't sold as described and I would like a refund of 
premiums paid. Mr W considered hed been misled by D&G, and he still had an issue with 
the appliance.
D&G said that in 2021, its agent had explained that the warranty covered parts, labour, and 
callouts for mechanical and electrical faults. Shed then offered the policy in question as, 
unlike the warranty, it covered accidental damage and continued after the manufacturers 
warranty ended. It explained that if a customer had a mechanical or electrical fault with their 
appliance when under guarantee, then the customer needed to contact the manufacturer to 
arrange a repair. If the repair was for a mechanical or electrical fault outside of the 
guarantee, then the customer needed to contact D&G to arrange a repair. For an accidental 
damage claim either within or outside of the manufacturers guarantee, then again, the 
customer needed to contact D&G to arrange a repair.
D&G thought that Mr W was fully aware of what the policy would cover. As to Mr Ws point 
that hed been charged for a policy which he didnt need, it said that hed accepted cover and 
it said that no refund was due. As to the requested repair, it said that the repair may not be 
associated with an accident. D&G said that as we or the customer is unsure the customer is 
referred to the manufacturer by [D&G] with a referral number to cover the claim. This means 
the repair will be covered under the agreement if determined that it is accidental not 
mechanical or electrical. As this is the case the customer has correctly been directed to the 
manufacturer for the assessment and repair to take place. It said that if accidental damage 
had occurred, the policy would cover the costs. If mechanical or electrical the manufacturer 
would cover the cost. It concluded that no mis-sale had occurred.
The starting point in determining cases of this nature will be the terms and conditions of the 
relevant policy. Here I note that the policy is clear that it includes, under the heading 
Breakdown (after the manufacturers guarantee), the following cover: If your product suffers 
a mechanical or electrical breakdown after the end of the manufacturers parts and labour 
guarantee period, we will (at our option) do one of the following: authorise a repair, arrange a 
replacement, or pay the cost of a replacement product. Under the heading, Accidental 
damage (during and after the manufacturers guarantee), it states Both during and after the 
end of the manufacturers parts and labour guarantee period), if your product suffers 
accidental damage (i.e. physical damage as a result of a sudden cause that means the 
product is no longer in good working order), we will (at our option) authorise a repair, 
arrange a replacement or pay the cost of a replacement product.
Ive listened to the relevant telephone call recording from the date when Mr W took out his 
policy with D&G and I note that a detailed discussion took place between Mr W and D&Gs 
representative. In this discussion the representative clearly explained the cover that was 
being offered in addition to the warranty. I consider that Mr W also made it clear that he 
wished to have accidental damage cover, due to problems which hed experienced in the 
past. He also specifically asked for assurance that it didnt make a difference, whether by 
warranty or plan. The representative assured him that it was all covered and that if there 
were any issues, then Mr W should give D&G a call and it would all be sorted for him. 
I note that D&G made it clear that it worked directly with the manufacturers. From the call 
recording Im also satisfied that whilst it wasnt spelt out, it was implied that the first port of 
call for a customer would be the engineers who would determine in the first instance whether 
it covered the fault. I agree that it would have been clearer if D&G had spelt out that this 
would be the manufacturers engineers rather than its own engineers.I note that however, that following the failure of Mr Ws appliance, D&G initially referred Mr 
W to the manufacturers as the cause of damage wasnt apparent. Unfortunately for Mr W, I 
cant say that this was an unreasonable approach for D&G to take. Mr W wasnt clear 
whether there was accidental damage, and the failure occurred within the first two years. In 
the circumstances, it was quite possible that the hob failure would have been covered under 
the manufacturers guarantee rather than the policy. If it transpired that this wasnt the case, 
then D&G would reasonably be required to consider the claim under the policy.
In conclusion, I understand that Mr W expected D&G to deal with all the issues in relation to 
a claim, however, Im satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for D&G to refer Mr W to the 
manufacturers as part of the claims process. In the circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Ws 
complaint and I cant say that D&G acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner. Nor can I say 
that D&G mis-sold the policy to Mr W. I consider that the policy cover was explained to Mr W 
when he took out that policy. Im also satisfied that Mr W didnt make D&G aware that he 
already had cover for accidental damage under his buildings policy and that it wouldnt 
reasonably be expected to check this on Mr Ws behalf.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment for Mr W. However, I cant say that D&G 
has treated Mr W in an unfair or unreasonable manner. I also cant say that D&G mis-sold a 
policy to Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint and I dont require 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman