DRN-3316784
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice he says he received in 2015 to transfer a personal pension 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). His transfer proceeds were invested in 
unregulated investment schemes that have since failed. He says the advice to transfer 
wasnt suitable because the proposed investments were too high risk for him. He holds 
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible.
What happened
In 2015, Mr R transferred the benefits he had in a personal pension to The Orbis SIPP 
administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). The funds were then 
invested in Dolphin Capital and Residential Regeneration. He now believes he was advised 
to transfer his pension by Wellington Court.
Mr R complained to Wellington Court in 2020. He said, in brief, that Wellington Courts 
advice had been negligent because the investments in Dolphin Capital and Residential 
Regeneration were unregulated and too high risk for him. The investments now look to have 
little value. Mr R says Wellington Court is responsible for his loss. Wellington Court didnt 
respond so Mr R referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that there was evidence demonstrating that Wellington Court was 
involved in the transfer of Mr Rs pension to the Orbis SIPP, including a letter from a Mr P at 
Wellington Court which referred to Mr R as his client. She thought this was enough evidence 
to show Wellington Court was responsible for Mr Rs transfer and, therefore, that this was a 
complaint that we could look at.
Wellington Court said it did not give Mr R any advice and Mr R has never been its customer. 
It says any paperwork linking Mr R to Wellington Court is fraudulent and denies that it has 
any responsibility for the complaint.
As Wellington Court maintains it has never dealt with Mr R, the matter was passed to me for 
a decision.
On 18 January 2021, I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail the evidence 
that was available to me. I repeat what I said here.
1. Documents provided by Mr R and GMTC
The following were provided by Mr R and GMTC:
I. An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to the 
Orbis SIPP on Mr Rs behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application for the 
SIPP and its investment instructions. It was date-stamped as being received by the 
PAN Group (administrators and trustees of the SIPP) on 19 January 2015. The letter 
is signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable. 
The letter specified that Mr R would be remunerating Mr P directly so the Adviser 
Remuneration Form hadnt been included.
II. The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of the 
various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge form) 
that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. Like the 
covering letter, this was signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court rather than 
by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the same as the one 
on the covering letter. An incorrect Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference 
number was also provided  the number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish 
company registration number. The form was signed on 13 January 2015.
III. The Orbis SIPP application form signed by Mr R on 9 January 2015.
IV. The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page document 
outlining the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr R on 9 January 2015.
V. An Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Form. This set out the details of Mr Rs 
transfer, including the policy number of the pension he was transferring from and its 
transfer value. This was signed by Mr R on 9 January 2015.
VI. A Supplemental Deed relating to the Orbis SIPP between Mr R and GMTC dated 
9 January 2015 which set out the provisions of the SIPP arrangement.
VII.Documents relating to the investment in Residential Regeneration, including the 
application form signed by Mr R for an investment of £10,000; a bond certificate 
showing Mr R held 10 bonds with a principal amount of £10,000 and a deed setting 
out the terms of the bond.
VIII. Documents relating to the investment in Dolphin Capital, including a loan note offer 
for an investment of £84,500 over a term of five years signed by Mr R on 
4 April 2015; a loan note certificate for £84,500 from Dolphin Capital which had an 
issue date of 15 April 2015 and statements to 2019.
IX. A GMTC New Business Sign Off Sheet completed by a representative of GMTC on 
25 February 2015. This showed the processes followed  it noted that the sale of the 
SIPP was advised.
X. SIPP valuation statements from 2016 to 2019 and a SIPP bank account statement 
dated 24 October 2019 showing the account transactions since it was opened on 
21 January 2015.
2. Mr Rs recollections
Mr R says that he was recommended by someone to Mr C, who worked for a company Ill 
refer to as A, to talk about his pension. He says Mr C introduced the idea of investing his 
pension in Dolphin Capital and Residential Regeneration, which he said was a low-risk 
bricks and mortar investment, with guaranteed returns in five years. Mr R says he never 
met or spoke to Mr P or anyone else from Wellington Court, but Mr C told him his pension 
transfer and the investments were arranged by Wellington Court.
3. Information from Mr Rs previous pension providers
Mr Rs previous pension provider sent us information to assist with our investigations. This 
information shows that, amongst other things, Mr Rs pension was invested equally across 
three funds. The asset classes in first fund were almost exclusively equities. The asset 
classes in the second and third funds were weighted in favour of equities.4. Documents from Wellington Court
Wellington Court hasnt provided any documents in relation to Mr Rs transfer because it 
says it didnt advise Mr R and that Mr R has never been a client of Wellington Court.
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did some 
consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into the Orbis 
SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no transfers of 
safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive that type of 
transfer. It has also recently stated that all payments it received from GMTC were for 
administrative consultancy work carried out by Mr P and nothing else.
Wellington Court added that its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), contacted 
it in 2016 in relation to some GMTC pension cases which led to it meeting with the FCA on 
10 August 2016. The attendees at that meeting were Mr P from Wellington Court and two 
representatives from the FCA. It says evidence of the administrative work carried out by 
Mr P was produced at the meeting with the FCA. Wellington Court provided some notes 
relating to the meeting but I havent included the notes here as ultimately they are not 
material to the outcome of this complaint.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it had 
with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  but it hasnt 
done so. Wellington Court says further details about the meeting with the FCA and the 
evidence provided in relation to the work carried out by Mr P can be provided by the FCA.
5. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr R
Mr R transferred £96,579.26 from his personal pension to the Orbis SIPP on 25 March 2015. 
In other complaints Ive seen that have very similar circumstances to Mr Rs complaint, 
customers were charged an advice fee of 1% of the transfer value, up to a maximum of 
£800, which was deducted directly from the customers SIPP account and paid to a GMTC 
holding account. The advice fees were then transferred in bulk payments to a bank account 
held by Wellington Court - I will set out in detail what we know about this below.
However, in Mr Rs case no advice fee was deducted from his SIPP account following the 
transfer of his funds. This is explained by the covering letter provided by Mr P of Wellington 
Court, who stated that Mr R would be remunerating him directly.
The investigator asked Mr R if he could provide evidence of the payment made to Mr P or 
Wellington Court, but he was unable to do so and couldnt recall making such a payment. 
Mr R was also asked whether he remembered or could evidence making a payment to 
anyone else, for example Mr C of A, but Mr R didnt recall making a payment to anyone else 
either.
6. Evidence from similar cases
As Ive said above, I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington 
Court which have very similar features to Mr Rs case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair 
and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Rs case, for context I think its 
reasonable to consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that has 
been collected in relation to Mr Rs case. Specifically:
I. Paperwork from other complaints show a number of introducer firms were involved in 
these transfers.II. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed.
III. Other payments to Wellington Court
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that payments 
representing 1% of the sums transferred by customers to GMTC were made to the 
same Wellington Court bank account in relation to many other individuals, including 
(but not necessarily limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 
22 individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The 
payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
GM ADVISER FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this 
payment relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on 
Wellington Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES.
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to 
appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA 
FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the 
number of individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that 
was to appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA 
FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
The above is based on information provided in other cases similar to Mr Rs case. 
Its not necessarily comprehensive. Furthermore, it appears that fees were also 
paid directly to Mr P of Wellington Court, as is the case here, and in another 
complaint Ive seen. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at least 
£87,000 was paid to the one Wellington Court bank account in relation to over 
200 transferred policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible that payments 
were happening before and after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments 
being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments 
being received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 
25 August 2015 and the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August 2015. This is because 
Wellington Court has only provided us with heavily redacted bank statements. 
I see no plausible reason why GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached 
Wellington Court. So, Ill proceed on that basis, particularly as Wellington Court 
has already had the opportunity to dispute this evidence in relation to other cases 
in which decisions have been issued.
What did I conclude in my provisional decision?
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that there were a number of question marks in 
relation to Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. Most notably there is the absence 
of evidence to show there was any direct contact between Mr R (and others like him) and 
Wellington Court, a lack of the usual paperwork one would expect to find if advice had been 
given (a fact-find, suitability report and so on), unexplained errors in the paperwork that did 
exist and no letters or emails between GMTC and Wellington Court in relation to the transfer 
of Mr Rs pension (and other pensions).
However, I went on to conclude that Wellington Court had most likely been paid a 1% 
advisory fee in relation to Mr Rs transfer and many other transfers. I came to this conclusion 
because the documentary evidence showed Mr R had agreed to pay Wellington Court an 
advisory fee in relation to the Orbis SIPP and the investments intended to be held in the 
SIPP. I thought the documentary evidence relating to other customers persuasively showed 
that the 1% fees collected from individuals were paid to Wellington Court  I didnt think it 
made a difference that we couldnt trace the fee paid in Mr Rs case. The fees were, in 
aggregate, substantial. Because Wellington Court didnt query them at the time, and didnt 
provide a persuasive argument for why it didnt query them at the time, I concluded that the 
fees werent fraudulent  as Wellington Court had argued  but were in line with what it was 
expecting for its involvement in the transfers in question. I therefore provisionally concluded 
that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of pensions 
 including Mr Rs pension  to the Orbis SIPP. 
I went on to provisionally conclude that Mr Rs complaint was in the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I was satisfied that Mr R was an eligible complainant, the 
activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK, Wellington Court is a 
regulated business and Mr R brought his complaint within the relevant time limits. I was also 
satisfied that the activities complained about fall within our jurisdiction because they relate to 
acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
pensions and investments.
With regard to the merits of Mr Rs complaint, I noted Wellington Court didnt appear to have 
done anything in return for the advice fee Mr R had agreed to pay in relation to his transfer. 
I didnt comment on whether this was deliberate on Wellington Courts part  that is, it knew it had to provide advice but chose not to; or whether it was an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt realise it should have provided advice. I didnt make a finding on this because the key 
point was whether the transfer was suitable.
And on this point, I was satisfied that the transfer wasnt suitable because Mr R ended up 
investing in Dolphin Capital and Residential Regeneration, which were both non-
mainstream, high risk, unregulated investments. I didnt think these investments were 
suitable for Mr R. I also didnt think Mr R would have needed to transfer his pensions to a 
SIPP, given the costs involved in doing so. All things considered, therefore, I didnt think the 
transfer was suitable for him.
I provisionally upheld Mr Rs complaint and set out what I thought Wellington Court should 
do to put things right.
I invited both parties to respond. Mr Rs representative didnt have anything to add.
Wellington Court responded, although not specifically about Mr Rs complaint. It said we had 
not given Wellington Court a fair and open hearing nor had we disclosed all of the evidence. 
It said the conclusions reached on decisions issued were irrational and not supported by the 
evidence. It also said our service had ulterior motives and it believed Wellington Court was 
being targeted because it was an Irish company. To avoid further misunderstanding, 
Wellington Court proposed a face-to-face meeting with our service and the FCA. It asked 
whether we had received a copy of the investigation report when the FCA visited Mr P in 
2016.
Wellington Court also said responsibility lies with GMTC and its associates (specifically
unregulated firms). It says it is obvious that GMTC, and its associates, were running a
scam and are now involved in a cover-up. It says any paperwork that links Wellington Court
to the transfers is fraudulent, including any paperwork that looks to have originated from
Wellington Court  which it says has been cloned. And it says GMTC being in administration
should speak for itself. It added that the pensions regulator is responsible for looking into 
GMTCs actions and asked whether our service had approached it for any information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory 
business relating to the transfer of pensions to the Orbis SIPP, which included the transfer of 
Mr Rs pension. I also concluded that Wellington Courts actions were not consistent with it 
being the victim of fraudulent activity.
For this reason I concluded that Mr Rs complaint fell within this services jurisdiction. And 
I upheld Mr Rs complaint on the grounds that the advice to transfer his existing pension to a 
SIPP and invest in Dolphin Capital and Residential Regeneration wasnt suitable for him.
Mr R didnt dispute the findings I made in my provisional decision and although Wellington 
Court responded, it didnt make any new points or provide any new evidence for me to 
consider. 
Nevertheless, Ive carefully considered everything submitted again. And I accept that some 
of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. For instance, the letter that was sent to GMTC 
enclosing Mr Rs transfer papers was undated and signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington 
Court rather than by Mr P himself. The signature on that letter is indecipherable. Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist was signed on Mr Ps behalf rather than by Mr P 
himself. The signature is again indecipherable (but looks to be the same as the one on the 
covering letter) and an incorrect FCA reference number was also provided. But despite this, 
I think the evidence against Wellington Court here is stronger. And as such, I see no reason 
to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, which I summarise 
again as follows:
Theres documentary evidence to show Mr R  and many others, as outlined above  
signed up for advice from Wellington Court and that a 1% fee for that advice was 
most likely paid to Wellington Court.
The 1% fees that were paid to Wellington Court were, in aggregate, sizeable but it 
doesnt appear to have queried any of them, suggesting it was expecting to receive 
those fees. 
By its own admission, Wellington Court undertook some work in relation to the 
transfer of a number of pensions to the Orbis SIPP. It told us Mr P was involved in 
this but his role was restricted to checking whether the customers pensions included 
safeguarded benefits.
Wellington Courts consultancy work shows there was a working relationship 
between the parties at the time. It wouldnt be a stretch to say that this could have led 
to Wellington Court doing other work on the transfers, potentially with the minimum of 
paperwork  especially as both organisations were based in the same town when the 
transfers (Mr Rs included) were taking place and Mr P apparently spent time in 
GMTCs offices. 
The consultancy work could be looked at in a different light in so far as it could 
explain why Wellington Court overlooked payments from GMTC. However, 
Wellington Court hasnt provided us with the agreement it signed with GMTC for its 
consultancy work, or the amounts it was paid or the dates the payments were made 
(or indeed if there was more than one payment) so its difficult to say its consultancy 
work would reasonably have explained why it didnt query all the income it was 
receiving from GMTC.
Wellington Court hasnt kept any documents relating to its consultancy work with 
GMTC, even though it wasnt a particularly long time ago.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any evidence of the work carried out by Mr P for 
GMTC. In the absence of such evidence, Wellington Court hasnt shown that its role 
in Mr Rs pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for GMTC.
Wellington Court has said it was a victim of fraud. Its a serious allegation and yet 
Wellington Court hasnt (based on the available evidence) reported its concerns to 
the appropriate authorities (the police for instance) or even done much to investigate 
the matter itself beyond telling us, and many complainants, that it wasnt involved. So 
its difficult to give Wellington Courts allegations too much credence given its own 
lack of action on the alleged fraud.
It is not uncommon for an introducer to drive the process of transferring a pension 
with the intention of investing in a particular scheme. And introducers often carry out 
the majority of the fact-finding directly with the customer before involving a regulated 
adviser to complete the process. In some instances, customers will not meet with or 
speak to the firm providing the advice. So I dont think that those customers who say they didnt speak to a representative of Wellington Court, or who were unaware of its 
involvement (as Mr R has said here), is particularly unusual.
In order to proceed with the transfer, GMTC needed to have confidence that advice 
had been given to Mr R. The paperwork submitted, such as the covering letter from 
Wellington Court, confirmed Mr R had appointed Wellington Court to provide him with 
advice. And GMTCs New Business Sign Off Sheet stated Mr R had been advised 
on the transfer of his pension. So, I think the transfer proceeded on the basis that 
Wellington Court had advised Mr R to do so.
Questioning GMTCs role in what happened is reasonable. But it doesnt necessarily 
follow from this that GMTC was acting fraudulently or that Wellington Court wasnt 
involved. In order to perpetrate the fraud that Wellington Court has alleged, GMTC 
would have been reliant on Wellington Court not noticing a series of unsolicited, but 
substantial, payments into its bank account over an extended period and on those 
people that transferred (of which there many dozens) not questioning Wellington 
Court at any point. I dont think it likely that GMTC would have taken its chances in 
this way unless, of course, it had some sort of understanding with Wellington Court  
in which case Wellington Courts involvement is still key to what happened.
Whatever the extent of Wellington Courts contact with Mr R, it was still nonetheless 
engaged in an advisory capacity in relation to his transfer  and the transfer of many 
other pensions too. The absence of any of the usual paperwork one would expect 
from an advice process, and the absence of substantive testimony about meetings 
with Wellington Court, doesnt change any of this. It just means Wellington Court 
didnt properly advise Mr R, and others, despite being paid to do so.
Jurisdiction
Mr R complained about a regulated activity, as advising someone to set up a SIPP 
and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to that SIPP is a regulated 
activity. Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mr Rs 
transfer and investment in both Dolphin Capital and Residential Regeneration. In 
short, what Wellington Court did here constituted making arrangements under Article 
25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001.
Mr R is an eligible complainant. Mr R most likely dealt with an introducer, Mr C, and 
Mr R signed documents on 9 January 2015 agreeing to transfer his pension. Mr C 
says that the paperwork was then passed to Wellington Court to complete the advice 
process. Im persuaded by this because Mr P, on behalf of Wellington Court, sent 
Mr Rs paperwork to GMTC on Wellington Court headed paper. Someone signed this 
on Mr Ps behalf on 13 January 2015. Mr P referred to Mr R as his client and asked 
GMTC to establish the SIPP and carry out our investment instructions. I think this 
shows the investment instructions came from Wellington Court. The paperwork also 
says that Mr R would be paying Wellington Court, via Mr P, directly. So, Mr R is 
Wellington Courts customer as he signed up for advice and he most likely paid for 
advice. Wellington Court was most likely sent, and accepted, payment for that 
advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical to Mr R transferring 
and investing in the way he did. So Im satisfied there is a customer relationship here.
I acknowledge that Wellington Court may well have undertaken some consultancy 
work for GMTC, which may have given rise to a business-to-business relationship. 
But, it hasnt provided enough information to establish what the exact nature of its relationship with GMTC was. And, for the reasons given above, there is a relationship 
between the complainant, Mr R, and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any 
consultancy arrangement that may have been in place.
The activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK; 
Wellington Court is a regulated business and Mr R brought his complaint to us within 
the relevant time limits. So, with all of this above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a 
case I can consider.
The merits of Mr Rs complaint
The transfers to the Orbis SIPP appear to have been initiated by introducers who 
sourced potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a 
position to transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the 
involvement of an advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role.
Theres a lack of paperwork to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return 
for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due to an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt fully understand what it should have done given the regulations in place at the 
time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either way, it seems Wellington 
Courts involvement was little more than window dressing, providing a veneer of 
advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of transfers.
There isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mr Rs financial needs 
and circumstances were at the time. But, Im satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable 
for Mr R. I say this because Dolphin Capital and Residential Regeneration were both 
non-mainstream, high risk, unregulated investments. Mr R doesnt appear to have 
had the degree of investment knowledge or risk appetite such an investment would 
have required. And it also looks like he allocated all of his pension savings to those 
investments, which strikes me as being an unsuitable strategy even for the most 
knowledgeable and least risk averse investors. Its also not apparent to me from the 
available evidence why Mr R needed to transfer his existing pension to a SIPP, 
especially given the costs involved in doing so. All things considered, therefore, 
I dont think the transfer was suitable.
Nevertheless, I think Mr R had some interest in reviewing his investment strategy 
because he was open to a transfer in the first place. As no attitude to risk 
assessment was carried out by Wellington Court, we asked for information from 
Mr Rs previous pension provider in order to see how his pension assets were 
previously invested. This would give some insight into Mr Rs risk profile. This 
information showed that Mr Rs pension was invested across funds with a relatively 
high equity weighting, which in my view, would indicate a balanced or medium 
attitude to risk. Mr R still had over six years before he could think about accessing his 
pension, so he had time to recoup losses. With this in mind, I think Mr R most likely 
had a medium attitude to risk. My approach to compensation, which is set out below, 
reflects these considerations.Wellington Courts other comments
Wellington Court has made a number of arguments in response to other similar cases. 
Where applicable, Ive addressed some of those arguments above. I address the remaining 
arguments below.
Wellington Court has said we have not made a full disclosure of the evidence. But it hasnt at 
any point said exactly what evidence hasnt been shared, which makes responding difficult. 
Wellington Court was sent the evidence we received from GMTC relating to Mr Rs pension 
transfer following my provisional decision. My provisional decision also set out, in detail, the 
evidence Id relied on in this case and the evidence Id seen and taken into account on other 
cases like Mr Rs. Wellington Court has also seen the transfer paperwork for numerous other 
complainants where decisions have been issued. Indeed, its case relies heavily on its views 
about the legitimacy of that paperwork  a message it repeats in relation to Mr Rs complaint. 
Given all the above, Im satisfied Wellington Court has been made aware of, and has had 
the opportunity to respond to, all the evidence Ive relied upon. 
Wellington Court says we have not obtained evidence of the introducers involvement. It also 
says that the decisions made are irrational and not supported by the evidence. Our 
investigator asked Mr R for his recollections from the time of the advice, which I set out in my 
provisional decision and I have repeated above. So, Im satisfied that Wellington Court is 
already aware of what Mr R recalls about the introducers involvement. And in any event, Ive 
taken into account that an introducer was involved in the transfer of Mr Rs pension. But 
irrespective of this, and as I have set out in detail with reference to the relevant evidence, Im 
satisfied that there was an advisory relationship between Wellington Court and Mr R and that 
Mr Rs pension was only transferred to the SIPP because of Wellington Courts involvement. 
Wellington Court maintains that it is the victim of fraud and that GMTC was running a scam. 
In response, I come back to what Ive said previously which is that Wellington Court received
substantial payments from GMTC in relation to a large number of transfers. If Wellington
Court had been the victim of fraudulent activity, I would have expected it to have queried
these payments at the time, given they were substantial and, in Wellington Courts view,
unexpected. The source of those payments was clear too  GMTC  so I dont see any
practical reason why it wouldnt have been able to raise the issue with GMTC (or even the
police). The fact that it didnt do so leads me to conclude the payments werent fraudulent
but were, instead, in line with what Wellington Court was expecting to be paid for its
involvement in the transfers.
Furthermore, its also worth noting that victims of scams wouldnt usually receive tens of
thousands of pounds from the alleged scammer  and there appears to be little doubt that
Wellington Court did receive those sorts of sums from the business it claims is behind the
scam.
Wellington Court says our service has failed to investigate GMTC or liaise with the pensions 
regulator about GMTCs role in the transfers. As my remit here is to consider Mr Rs 
complaint against Wellington Court, I wont be investigating GMTCs due diligence or 
conducting a broader investigation into GMTC. Similarly, it is for Wellington Court, rather 
than the Financial Ombudsman Service, to report individuals and organisations to the police 
if it thinks doing so is warranted.
Wellington Court seems to suggest that a report into the work carried out by Mr P for GMTC 
can be obtained from the FCA. But, as I said in my provisional decision, it is for Wellington 
Court to provide us with evidence in support of its position. Wellington Court was invited to 
provide me with this evidence so that I could consider it. But it has not sent me a copy of this report. And in the absence of such evidence, I dont think Wellington Court has shown that 
its role in Mr Rs pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for GMTC.
Wellington Court also asked for a meeting with us and the FCA in order to resolve this 
matter. But Mr R has asked our service to consider his complaint against Wellington Court 
and Im satisfied I can come to a fair and reasonable decision on his complaint based on the 
evidence Ive outlined. Wellington Court has had ample opportunity to provide any evidence 
it has in support of its position, and indeed it has had several years to investigate the matter 
since it was first brought to its attention in 2019. I dont think the matter, by which I assume 
Wellington Court means all of the cases that have been submitted against it, can be resolved 
through a meeting with our service and the FCA. 
Finally, Wellington Court says we havent replied to a number of its emails. For the
avoidance of doubt, Ive considered everything Wellington Court has said in relation to this
case and the many others like it  even if I have limited my findings to those areas I consider
relevant to the complaints outcome. However, for the reasons given above, Im upholding 
this complaint and I think Wellington Court should compensate Mr R for his losses.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would now be in 
if he had been given suitable advice. I dont think Mr R wouldve transferred his pension to a 
SIPP, but I think he would have sought to invest his pension differently to achieve higher 
growth. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives 
when he invested.
What should Wellington Court do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr R is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Unless either party provides evidence to the contrary, compensation should be based 
on Mr R being a basic rate taxpayer.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Wellington Court should 
give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Orbis SIPP still existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of final 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as appears to 
be the case here. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Wellington Court should take ownership of the illiquid investments by paying 
a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted 
from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the investments, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that Mr R 
provides an undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount he may receive from the 
investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Wellington Court will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income, or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
SIPP Fees
The SIPP only exists because of Wellington Courts actions. But to close the SIPP and 
prevent further fees from being incurred, the illiquid investments need to be removed. If 
Wellington Court cant do this, Mr R is faced with future SIPP fees. I think it is fair to assume 
five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Wellington Court cant buy the investments, it should 
pay an amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current full tariff. This is in 
addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investments.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr R's circumstances and risk attitude.
I also think Wellington Court should pay Mr R £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice, which has caused a total loss to his 
pension.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr R 
in a clear, simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman