DRN-3614701
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited (HCU) is charging him for a car which does 
not charge as quickly after a software upgrade.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr B acquired an electric car funded by a hire agreement with HCU. The 
car had a software upgrade and Mr B says the charging time increased significantly. He 
complained to the manufacturer and after inspecting the car both it and the dealer did not 
consider there was a fault.
He contacted HCU and it spoke to dealer and to the manufacturer which said there was no 
recall in hand. It also commissioned an independent report. The inspection was carried out 
in March 2022 and no fault was found. The report states:
We were unable to confirm a fault as the vehicle charged as what we consider correctly. We 
would conclude that based on the evidence available to ourselves at the time of inspection 
we do not consider the reported fault to have been present or developing at the point of 
finance inception and the selling agent has no responsibility. The vehicle needs no repairs 
as no faults were found. The vehicle was found to be fault free on our inspection.
HCU rejected Mr Bs complaint and so he brought it to this service. It was considered by one 
of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt consider there was 
evidence that the car was faulty.
Mr B didnt agree and said the evidence supplied by HCU was bogus. He said that tests had 
not been carried out with and without the software updates. He said the manufacturer 
refused to roll back the software updates. More recently he also supplied photos of the car 
charging at 44% when he considered it should be 77%.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr B, but I do not consider I can uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
Although the two are connected HCU is separate from the manufacturer and my role is to 
consider how HCU handled Mr Bs claim. Once it was notified of Mr Bs claim it contacted 
the manufacturer and the dealer to seek further information about the issue Mr B faced. 
Having established that neither of those parties could identify a problem it sought the advice 
of an independent expert. He concluded there was no fault and said:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that on monitoring the 
charging on the vehicle using a 120kw charger the vehicle charged from 19% to 98% within 
a time limit of 1 hour and 34 minutes.
I appreciate the photos Mr B has submitted but these of themselves do not demonstrate that 
there is a fault. As the inspector has noted the rate of charge will fluctuate and so a snapshot 
does not show there is a fault.
I have noted that Mr B has sought a refund of all the payments he has made, but by March 
2022 he had covered 17,461 miles which indicates that he has been able to make extensive 
use of the car.
I asked HCU if the upgrade could be rolled back since this might assist Mr B. It said that it 
didnt believe that they can be reversed as they will be required to keep the software 
compatible with the rest of the software in the vehicle.
Overall I cannot say that HCU has been given sufficient evidence to allow it to uphold his 
claim. As such I do not consider it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman