DRN-1588774
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc authorised a payment out of his account that it had 
previously blocked.
What happened
Mr B says he arranged for a company to fit a new boiler at a rental property he owns. He 
says he paid a deposit of £300 and was expecting the work to cost a further £200 but 
received a text from the company asking for over £1,600. Mr B says he has been 
overcharged. And says he was then told by Santander that its security systems had blocked 
four attempted payments to this company. Mr B says he spoke to Santander and was told 
the payments had been blocked but later found out a payment had been made to the 
company for £865 and that the company had changed its name slightly. He would like his 
money back and says Santander shouldnt have paid it.
Santander says Mr B authorised a payment to the company and it wouldnt know for how 
much. It says its security systems did block the initial attempts for payments. But authorised 
the last as it was made differently. Santander says it asked Mr B for information to raise a 
chargeback, but he couldnt provide any receipts, invoices or other information and so 
couldnt continue with it.
Mr B says he didnt have any invoices or receipts and says the company refused to provide 
them. He brought his complaint to us, but investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr B had authorised a payment and it wasnt Santanders fault he had been 
overcharged. The investigator thought this was a dispute between Mr B and the company, 
and Santander wasnt responsible for what took place.
Mr B doesnt accept that view
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Santander hasnt made a mistake or 
acted unfairly and so I cant order it to refund the disputed payment. I realise Mr B will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place. 
No doubt he will consider alternative action against this company.
Im satisfied that Mr B has told us that he paid a £300 deposit for the work and that £200 was 
to be paid. I appreciate that Mr B says he was overcharged, and the company demanded 
over £1,600. But I dont think Santander could have known about that and wasnt party to 
any agreement. Im also satisfied that Mr B authorised the company to take a payment from 
his account, but the issue is the amount of that payment. So, I dont think this was a 
fraudulent transaction.
Santander blocked the first few attempts to take the money as the attempts were flagged by 
its security systems. I dont think that had anything to do with Mr Bs dispute with the 
company. But I appreciate Mr Bs frustration that having spoken to Santander the payment 
was authorised by the company using slightly different details. I have made clear that Im 
satisfied Mr B authorised a payment and so he will need to take up the complaint about the 
amount he was charged with that company.
Im satisfied that Santander did try and help Mr B by trying to raise a chargeback. It has been 
explained to Mr B that Santander isnt responsible for the chargeback rules and so I dont 
think it acted unfairly by asking for receipts and invoices before deciding if it could make a 
chargeback request. I appreciate Mr Bs difficulties that he was away from home and needed 
the boiler fitted urgently and that the company has failed to provide such receipts or invoices. 
But that is not something Santander is responsible for and it has to comply with the 
chargeback rules by asking for that information. As Mr B couldnt provide that information, I 
think Santander fairly concluded it couldnt make a chargeback or that the rules allowed one 
to be made in these circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr B provided authorisation to the company for a payment to be taken 
out of his account and so I cant fairly order Santander to refund all or part of the amount that 
was taken. I accept Mr B is unlikely to accept my decision, but I think that brings an end to 
what we, in trying to sort out this dispute informally, can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman