DRN-3073528
Complaint
Mr K has complained about the overdraft charges Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) 
applied to his current account. Hes said the charges added were unfair and caused him 
financial hardship.
Background
Mr Ks complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt think that Clydesdale 
had done anything wrong as Mr K hadnt said he was in financial difficulty and the charges 
were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So she didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Weve already explained why were only able to look at Mr Ks complaint about the charges 
on his sole account from July 2014 onwards and why we cant look at any of the charges on 
his joint account. So this decision is only looking at the charges applied on Mr Ks sole 
account from July 2014.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Clydesdale charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Clydesdales charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr K if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ks 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr K was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where Clydesdale didnt treat Mr K fairly and reasonably. 
The first thing for me to say is that most of the information Mr K has provided is from 2010. 
And weve already explained why we cant look at what happened then. Nonetheless, Ive 
looked through Mr Ks statements from July 2014 onwards to see whether Clydesdale 
should have realised Mr K needed help. And I cant see that Clydesdale ought to have been 
aware that Mr K might have been struggling during this period. 
Its fair to say that Mr K did incur some unplanned or unarranged overdraft fees. And Mr K 
might say that this in itself was an indication he was in difficulty. But from July 2014 the 
charges on Mr Ks account were incurred sporadically. And while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mr K expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions as transfers to 
another account going from the account too. Equally the amount being credited to Mr Ks 
account each month didnt indicate that he was struggling either.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr K wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Clydesdale to potential financial difficulty. So, in these 
circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr K, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Clydesdale to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I dont 
think Clydesdale unfairly charged Mr K in circumstances where it ought to have realised that 
he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that Clydesdale needs to refund any interest, fees and 
charges, for the period Ive looked at, and Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for Mr K  especially as he has been waiting sometime for 
this decision. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least 
feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman