DRN-3543475
The complaint
Mrs W complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly granted her three credit card 
accounts that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mrs W entered into agreements with NewDay to have access to credit with three separate 
credit card accounts. The first, a Marbles account, was opened for her in March 2018 with a 
credit limit of £450. The second, a Debenhams account, was opened for her in June 2018 
with a credit limit of £600. The third, a Fluid account, was opened for her in May 2019 with a 
credit limit of £900.   
Mrs W says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened each 
of these accounts. She says if it had, it would have seen that each agreement wasnt 
affordable for her as she didnt have enough income to make repayments.
NewDay didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment 
to check Mrs Ws financial circumstances before granting her the credit accounts for each 
card. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought NewDay didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving each of the accounts. 
Mrs W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting each of these accounts, NewDay looked into Mrs Ws financial situation. 
Marbles
Before opening the Marbles account, I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mrs W about her ability to repay. This included completing a 
credit check. This showed she had around £11,200 in unsecured borrowing and ongoing 
credit commitments. It also showed there were also no defaults against any of her borrowing 
and nor were there court judgments registered against her. However, just because I think it 
carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable 
to Mrs W. I say this because Mrs Ws card application details showed her as having an 
annual income of around £18,000 and that she was a tenant. So given her financial history 
and the income shed declared alongside the relatively low credit limit shed been given, I 
dont think NewDay acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
Debenhams
At the time of granting the Debenhams account, Mrs W still had an annual declared income 
of around £18,000, although her residential status at that time wasnt clear. The credit 
carried out at the time showed her owing £13,200 to creditors. Given this increased amount 
due, plus the additional credit she was now being granted, I think it would have been 
proportionate for NewDay to carry out better checks in order to understand Mrs Ws financial 
situation, especially as there was an increased likelihood that she could be experiencing 
financial difficulty. So I think NewDay ought to have taken steps to find out more about 
Mrs Ws daily spending commitments, including her regular living costs. 
I think that had NewDay carried out further checks, it would likely have found that she had 
enough disposable income available to meet her existing financial commitments whilst 
maintaining her new account. I say this because the bank statements Ive seen from around 
this time show its likely that Mrs W had enough disposable income available each month to 
be able to at least meet her monthly minimum payment requirements. I say this given that I 
agree with our adjudicator that she had a monthly income that worked out at around £1,300 
per month, with committed expenditure of around £837. If NewDay had completed 
proportionate checks by looking at these, I think its likely it would have found this to be the 
case. That means I dont consider that NewDay acted unfairly in granting Mrs W this 
account. 
Fluid  account opened May 2019
At the time of granting the Fluid account, Mrs W still had an annual declared income of 
around £18,000, although at this point she was living with her parents. Whilst she still had 
the same number of creditors, the credit check showed her as having £16,200 owed to 
creditors. Only this and the Debenhams account were still operating at this time, so Mrs W 
had a combined credit limit from them of £1,500. But again, given that Mrs W had increased 
her level of debt further without benefiting from an increase in her income, I think it would 
have been proportionate to find out more about her committed expenditure. So l think it 
would have been appropriate for NewDay to carry out better checks in order to understand 
Mrs Ws financial situation at this point. Ive seen that Mrs Ws daily spending commitments, 
including her regular living costs, worked out at around £810 per month. 
But here too, I think that had NewDay carried out further checks, it likely would have found  
she had enough disposable income available to meet her existing financial commitments 
whilst maintaining her new account. I say this having reviewed bank statement information 
that Mrs W sent us from around the time this account was opened, taking into account her 
regular financial commitments and living expenses. 
In conclusion, having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont 
think Mrs W has been able to demonstrate that any of these credit card agreements with NewDay were likely to have been unaffordable. So I cant reasonably conclude that NewDay 
ought to have known she would struggle to make the repayments. 
Im therefore not persuaded that NewDay acted unfairly in approving each of these three 
accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman