DRN-4104335
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as H has complained that White Rose Insurance Solutions Ltd 
(White Rose) mis-sold its business interruption insurance policy. 
Mr S, a director of H, has brought the complaint on Hs behalf. 
What happened
H bought insurance through White Rose, which is a broker, in 2019. The policy renewed on 
11 March 2020 which is the relevant sale for this complaint. Prior to the renewal, H asked 
White Rose about coverage for Covid-19.
Hs business was required to close in March 2020 due to Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. H claimed on its business interruption insurance policy for losses 
incurred in this and later lockdowns. 
The insurer initially agreed to pay for a few days of losses but said that Hs policy did not 
provide cover for the entire lockdown periods. H complained to White Rose. It said it had 
specifically asked for cover for closure by the Government and, as the policy did not provide 
cover, White Rose had mis-sold the policy. 
White Rose did not agree that the policy had been mis-sold. It said that, due to Hs needs, it 
had only been able to offer cover from one provider.
Unhappy with White Roses response, H brought its complaint to our service. It said that it 
had asked about the cover available and White Rose had clearly not asked the insurer about 
the cover before selling H the policy. H said that White Rose had not sent it the policy 
wording until after it had needed to claim. 
Following a separate complaint to our service, Hs insurer agreed to pay its claim for losses 
incurred during the whole of the first lockdown. However, H maintained that the policy had 
been mis-sold. 
Our Investigator looked into Hs complaint but did not recommend that it be upheld. He did 
not think that White Rose had sufficiently identified Hs demands and needs but he did not 
think it was likely that H would have bought a different policy which provided more extensive 
cover than the one it had. 
H did not agree. In summary it said:
Its claims with the insurer had not all been settled, and the process had been 
ongoing for a considerable amount of time. This had led to significant losses for Mr S, 
which was due to the wording of the policy sold by White Rose.
On 27 February 2020, H asked White Rose if it would be covered for losses due to 
Covid-19. White Rose did not provide clear, fair and not misleading information, and 
did not take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. White Rose 
provided renewal documents and H noted that the cover had been split into a 
property policy and a trading policy.
White Rose did not respond when asked about other insurers it approached for 
cover. H does not think that White Rose looked for alternative cover. 
When H enquired about a making a claim, the insurers agent said it would depend 
on which policy H held. It was at this point H became aware there were different 
policy wordings. 
In a response to our service, Hs insurer said that the policy was put in place by a 
professional broker who should have been aware of the wider cover available.    
White Rose should have advised H that there was other cover available. 
White Rose said it could only offer cover from one insurer due to Hs claims history 
which included a flood. However, the policy it sold H in March 2020 excluded flood 
cover. This indicated that White Rose did not provide cover which met Hs demands 
and needs.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
H has made a number of points within its complaint. While I have considered them all, I am 
not going to address each point within this decision and will, instead, focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues to this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear about the impact that Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic have had on H. However, I am not upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling a policy, under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook, a firm is 
required to specify a customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is 
consistent with them. It also has a general duty to provide information that is clear, fair and 
not misleading. White Rose has not told us whether this sale was advised or non-advised 
but I do not think that makes a difference to the outcome of this decision because even if the 
sale was advised (meaning that the obligation on White Rose was greater, because it 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice), I still would not think 
it produces a fair and reasonable outcome to require White Rose to compensate H. 
White Rose has not provided anything to show how it ascertained Hs demands and needs 
when it originally sold the policy in 2019. Im not aware that H particularly requested disease 
cover at that time, but even if it did not, it is clear that H wanted to know about cover for 
Covid-19 at the renewal in March 2020. This is shown by it asking White Rose in an email on 
27 February 2020 with this Virus going on if we had to close or medical advise to people 
in the area not to travel are we covered.
White Rose said it would look into this, but I cant see any evidence of it explaining the level 
of cover for Covid-19 in the policy. The response that I have seen says that the policy was 
the same as the previous year, so I think H would have been able to review the wording in 
the policy  but I would have expected White Rose to have responded specifically to Hs 
query about cover for Covid-19. 
Given the extent of public concern about Covid at this time, I think White Rose should have 
been considering that its customers would likely want disease cover, although I do appreciate that many insurers were of the view that their policies would not provide cover in 
the event of a lockdown. I have asked White Rose for more information about why it didnt 
sell H the alternative policy H has referenced, which ultimately provided wider cover with a 
radius clause. White Rose said that the policy it offered H was the only one available due to 
Hs previous claims and its specific need for flood cover. However, I am not particularly 
persuaded by this, given that the policy White Rose sold H contained an exclusion for 
flooding and because White Rose has not provided any evidence to show that it approached 
any other insurers. 
It is disappointing that White Rose has not responded to our services numerous requests for 
information about which insurers it approached for a quote or whether it asked the insurer for 
information about the cover provided for Covid-19. However, I believe that I am able to reach 
a decision without that information. I say that because, even if White Rose could have sold H 
the policy which provided radius cover, this wouldnt mean that White Rose had mis-sold H 
its policy. I will explain why. 
While H asked White Rose whether it would be covered for Covid-19, I have not seen 
anything to indicate that it specifically asked for a policy with a radius clause. And while 
policies with radius clauses were found to provide cover by the Supreme Court in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Business Interruption Insurance test case, in my experience, 
many insurers whose policies included a radius clause did not believe in March 2020 that 
their policy would provide cover in the event of the Government requiring businesses to 
close. So, I have to consider what White Rose would most likely have known at the time it 
sold the policy, rather than what may have transpired subsequently. 
I have asked White Rose what it had been told about the available cover by the insurer at 
the time. In the absence of any reply, I am unable to conclude that White Rose asked the 
insurer whether the policy would provide cover in line with Hs request. However, even if 
White Rose did not ask the insurer about the level of cover, it remains that it did sell H a 
policy which has provided cover for Covid-19.
I have considered Hs point that the insurer of its policy pointed out that a broker should have 
known wider cover was available. But I do not agree that White Rose should reasonably 
have known, in March 2020, which policy would ultimately provide a wider level of cover. 
Also, it is not clear that H had expressed a need to White Rose for wider cover.
I appreciate that Hs insurer did not initially agree that its claim was covered and only agreed 
to pay the first claim following the involvement of our service. However, it remains the case 
that White Rose did sell H a policy which ultimately provided cover, under certain conditions, 
for interruption to its business caused by the Covid 19 pandemic. It is therefore 
demonstrably the case that White Rose sold a policy which satisfied, at least to some extent, 
the stated need. I also note that many policies available at that time ultimately did not 
provide cover for the impact of Covid-19. 
Moreover, different policies cover different types of business and risks. Therefore, I note that 
the policy from Hs insurer which contained the radius clause may not have been available to 
H or may not have met Hs other needs. 
Overall, while White Rose might have been able to sell H a policy with wider cover in the 
circumstances of the Covid 19 pandemic, and while I can understand Mr Ss frustration with 
not having received a satisfactory answer about how White Rose sold H the policy, I am not 
persuaded that White Rose sold H a policy which was unsuitable for its needs. 
I appreciate the claim process has taken some time and Im mindful of the significant impact 
that this has had on H and Mr S. However, I do not hold White Rose responsible for this as I dont believe that it mis-sold Hs policy in relation to cover for the Covid-19 pandemic.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman