DRN-2667734
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) closed her current account and 
associated overdraft despite being told it would remain open following an account switch. 
Miss M also complains that BOS has reported a missed payment on her credit file. 
What happened
In mid December 2019 Miss M called BOS and asked questions about completing an 
account switch. Miss M explained she had a 0% overdraft and BOS said the account 
wouldnt automatically be closed as part of the switch. 
Miss Ms account switch to another bank completed a short time later. Miss Ms new bank 
told BOS she was completing a full account switch, which meant her existing account was 
closed. At this point, Miss Ms account was overdrawn by around £1,800. 
Miss M contacted BOS a short time later to ask why her account was closed and she had 
been asked to repay the outstanding balance within 30 days. BOS confirmed her account 
was closed as part of the switching process and, as a result, no payment plan could be 
agreed. 
Miss M complained and BOS responded on a short time later. But the final response was 
sent to Miss Ms previous address so wasnt received by her. 
Miss M repaid the outstanding balance using a loan she has had to pay interest on. Miss M 
has asked for BOS to cover the interest she has been charged. Miss M has also pointed out 
the issue led to a missed payment on her credit file. 
Miss M referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought BOS had dealt with Miss Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Miss M asked to appeal, so her complaint has bene passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the available calls between Miss M and BOS, including the first call where 
she asked what would happen if she switched accounts. Whilst I accept the advisor told Miss 
M her overdraft could remain open, that information was correct. The issue came when Miss 
Ms new bank completed a full account switch, which meant it gave BOS an instruction to 
close Miss Ms account. And, once the account was closed, Miss Ms overdraft balance was 
repayable. Im sorry to disappoint Miss M but I didnt find that BOS call handler misled her. 
Miss M quickly contacted BOS about the issue and it advised that, because her account was 
closed, there was no option to agree a repayment plan. BOS advised that Miss M needed to 
arrange repayment of the outstanding balance within 30 days of the account closure. I 
understand it wasnt Miss Ms intention to close her account. But Im satisfied BOS acted in 
line with the instructions it received and the overdraft balance became payable when the 
account was closed. 
Miss M has told us she didnt receive BOS final response to her complaint. But the address 
registered to Miss Ms account wasnt up to date, which meant it wasnt received. Ive 
reviewed the account terms, and they say customers should update BOS with a new 
address and contact details. In addition, I can see BOS notes show information about how 
to amend the registered address was given on 24 December 2019. Im sorry to disappoint 
Miss M, but I havent found BOS wrote to the wrong address or delayed sending the final 
response to her complaint. 
BOS reported a missed payment on Miss Ms credit file for February 2021. BOS has 
explained thats because the account balance remained outstanding after the 30 day period 
following the account switch. I understand Miss M is concerned about the impact of the 
missed payment on her credit file, but I think it accurately reflects that her account was 
closed and not repaid until within the 30 days given by BOS. I havent found that BOS 
decision to report a missed payment is unfair in the circumstances of Miss Ms complaint. 
Miss M has asked BOS to cover the interest she will pay on the loan she took out to clear 
the outstanding balance of the overdraft. But as BOS hasnt made an error in this case and 
closed the account in line with the switch instructions it received, I dont think it would be fair 
to tell it to cover Miss Ms interest. Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, but Im satisfied BOS has 
dealt with this complaint fairly. As a result Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman