DRN-1911810
The complaint
Mr N complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy following the theft of his car. He wants compensation for the financial loss 
and the trouble and inconvenience this has caused him. 
What happened
Mr N reported the theft of his car to the police and Admiral. Mr N later found the car and it 
was recovered unlocked with so signs of a break in. Mr N still had two keys for the car. Mr N 
said the car had been damaged, but the police and Admiral said it was undamaged. 
Admiral had the car examined and this found no damage to the car caused by the break in 
and that the car couldnt have been stolen without a key. And so it declined the claim as it 
thought that Mr N had misled it about the circumstances of the theft. It asked Mr N to pay its 
outlay for the claim. Mr N thought his key may have been cloned.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
wasnt enough evidence that a theft had occurred. She thought the circumstances didnt 
match the use of a cloned key. She thought Admiral had reasonably thought that the claimed 
for damage was due to wear and tear. And so she thought it hadnt acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim. 
Mr N replied that a cloned key could have been used to steal his low value car. He said his 
car was caught by the polices Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system whilst 
he was out of the country. He was also unhappy that Admiral took six months to reach its 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Admiral relied on a General Condition of Mr Ns policy to decline his claim. This is set out on 
Page 36 of the policy booklet:
If you or anyone acting for you makes or supports a fraudulent claim against usyour 
policy and all other policies to which you are connectedwill be cancelled or voided. We will 
seek to recover any costs we have incurred and will not return any premium. For further 
information see General Condition 9.
I think this is a common condition in motor insurance policies and its clearly set out. So I 
think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on it to decline a claim. 
 
Admiral said Mr N had attempted to mislead it about the claim. It said the incident as 
reported by Mr N wasnt supported by the evidence.
Admiral instructed an independent investigator to look into Mr Ns claim and it had the cars 
ECU unit checked. The independent investigator found that the car was fitted with a key 
transponder immobiliser, so it couldnt have been driven without one of its keys. The ECU 
investigation found that only two keys were coded to the car. There were no signs of forced 
entry, lock or ignition damage. The police report also confirmed that there was no damage. 
So Admiral thought the car must have been entered and driven away using one of its keys. 
Mr N said there was no proof that one of his keys was used to steal his car. He said the car 
had been caught on ANPR whilst he was out of the country. But I havent seen evidence to 
support this. I can see that when Mr N first reported the theft, he told Admiral that he had 
one set of keys and that the other was with a friend. The keys cant be read to see when 
they were last used. So I cant say whether or not this key was used for Mr Ns car whilst he 
was away. 
Mr N said his key could have been cloned and so the car was stolen without signs of a break 
in. I agree that its not only high value cars that are stolen with cloned keys. And I cant 
categorically say that Admiral has shown that the car was stolen using its key. 
But in Mr Ns circumstances his car was found, undamaged, a few streets away. This is 
unlike other cases Ive seen. I think its unlikely that the car would have been stolen using a 
cloned key only for it to be abandoned close by. 
Mr N told Admirals repairer that there was theft-related damage to his car. But the repairer 
found only wear and tear. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
I can see that Admiral relied on an expert engineers report to decide that the damage was 
due to wear and tear. I havent seen any further evidence that Admiral should have 
considered. So I think its justified its decision about the repairs.
So I think Admiral was reasonably concerned that the theft didnt happen as Mr N described, 
and I think there wasnt enough evidence to show that a theft had taken place:
There were inconsistencies in Mr Ns account of pre-existing damage to his car.
It had expert evidence that Mr Ns car could only be entered and stolen with one of its 
keys. 
There was no theft-related damage to the car.
The car was recovered just a few miles away from where Mr N had left it. 
Admiral had an independent assessor examine the car and its ECU. It had an independent 
investigator interview Mr N. It reviewed Mr Ns statements. I think Admiral reasonably 
investigated the claim and considered the evidence before it made its decision. So I think it 
was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to decline the claim. And I think it was 
entitled to retain the premiums and recover its costs from Mr N. I cant say that Admiral has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman