DRN-3447723
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as P has complained that Aspen Insurance UK Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-
19 pandemic.
Mrs W, a director of P, has brought the complaint on Ps behalf.
What happened
P held a business interruption insurance policy with Aspen. It operates a shop.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 P closed 
its shop from 23 March 2020 and didnt reopen until 15 June 2020. 
P claimed on the policy. Aspen declined the claim. It said the policy covered business 
interruption as a result of an occurrence of a notifiable infectious disease at the premises but 
it didnt think P had demonstrated that Covid-19 had occurred at the premises. 
Mrs W brought Ps complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She thought Aspen had turned down the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. She said there was insufficient evidence to suggest that P 
had closed its business due to a case of Covid-19 at the premises. 
P asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ps business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Aspen has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ps claim.
The most relevant part of Ps policy is an extension to the policy that covers losses:
 arising from the closure of the premises by a competent authority due to an human 
notifiable infectious disease or food poisoning suffered by any visitor or employee or by 
defective sanitation vermin or pests at the premises as specified in the schedule or by 
murder or suicide occurring at the premises.
Mrs W argues that the policy wording shouldnt be read as meaning that there had to have 
been a case of a notifiable infectious disease at the premises. She argued that the premises 
just had to be closed due to a notifiable infectious disease for P to be covered under the 
extension wording. Its not in dispute that Covid-19 is a notifiable infectious disease.
Its settled law broadly speaking that where the wording of a contract is ambiguous, any 
ambiguity should be read in favour of the policyholder. I understand this argument but I dont 
think this wording is ambiguous, although I accept better punctuation would have helped to 
make the meaning even clearer. 
In my view a reasonable interpretation of this extension is that the words at the premises 
apply to all of (a) a notifiable infectious disease, (b) food poisoning suffered by a visitor or 
employee and (c) defective sanitation, vermin or pests. On any reading of the wording 
defective sanitation, vermin or pests have to be at the premises. But logically so does food 
poisoning because it would make no sense for the premises to be closed by a competent 
authority if, for example, an employee had become ill from eating contaminated food 
elsewhere. If the case of food poisoning has to be on the premises, it follows that the 
notifiable infectious disease also has to be on the premises. 
I think this interpretation is reinforced by the fact that in this clause certain events are 
grouped together, for example defective sanitation vermin or pests and murder or suicide 
and the groups are separated by the words or by. The words or by dont separate 
notifiable infectious disease and food poisoning. So it seems reasonable to me to treat a 
notifiable infectious disease and food poisoning as a group of events that have to be 
suffered by a visitor or employee at the premises.
In summary, for this extension to provide cover in these circumstances, I think a reasonable 
interpretation is that the policy requires the closure of the business premises by a 
competent authority due to a notifiable infectious disease at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
Mrs W mentioned that two people who work at the premises were sent home due to being 
unwell before the lockdown. However, there isnt any evidence to confirm what symptoms 
they had. I have to bear in mind that many of the people who were unwell in March 2020 
didnt have Covid-19. I dont think her evidence is sufficiently convincing to conclude that 
there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Ps premises before it was required to close. 
Ive carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Ps policy. But I dont consider Ps claim ought 
to have been met under any of them. So, having considered all the circumstances of this 
case, whilst I am sorry for the position P finds itself in, I am persuaded Aspens decision not 
to meet Ps claim was fair and reasonable. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman