DRN-1705473
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with their insurers Society of Lloyds (SOL), who have refused to 
continue to offer them home insurance, following a claim for subsidence.  Mr and Mrs B 
would like their insurers to continue to cover them.    
What happened
In early September 2018 Mrs and Mrs B took out home insurance for a period of one year 
via a broker.  The insurance was underwritten by SOL.  They made a claim that was 
successful, for subsidence.  Following this claim, Mr and Mrs B contacted their broker as the 
insurance was due to expire.  Their broker responded to say SOL no longer offered home 
insurance for commercial reasons and so could no longer insure them.  Their broker 
attempted to find an alternative insurer, but given the recent claim for subsidence, was 
unsuccessful in his attempts.  Mr and Mrs B contacted Lloyds to tell them of their dilemma.  
Lloyds offered to extend their policy for a period of three months to allow them time to find 
alternative insurers. 
 
Mrs and Mrs B were upset as they wanted Lloyds to extend the cover for a period of 1 year 
as they were encountering difficulties in finding an insurer, due to the recent claim.
 
 Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint here, where one of our investigators looked into it.  
The investigator did not uphold the complaint and found that SOL had acted reasonably as 
they had given Mr and Mrs B a reasonable amount of time to find alternative insurers, so she 
did not ask SOL to do anymore.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.  I will now give my reasons why.
 
Like our investigator I have to assess what steps SOL took when dealing with Mr and Mrs B 
and whether they acted unfairly or unreasonably towards them.  In early August 2019, when 
they sought renewal of their policy with SOL, their broker had contacted SOL to see if they 
would be in a position to renew.  SOL had taken the commercial view in April 2019, of not offering home insurance as they felt that these policies were no longer economically viable.  
This decision was a company policy that related to any new business and was not directed 
totally specifically at Mr and Mrs B.:
 
To our broker partners, following two years of writing home insurance.we have taken the 
very difficult decision to withdraw from the home insurance market.  Our decision was not 
taken lightly 
 
Although I can understand why Mr and Mrs B are anxious to stay with their current insurers, 
unfortunately, the decision that SOL have taken is based entirely on business circumstances 
and it is not for the ombudsman to comment on this or to ask the business to change them.  I 
can not see that Lloyds have acted unreasonably or unfairly.  
 
Mr and Mrs B contacted SOL when they found it difficult to secure alternative insurance.  
SOL at this stage could have declined to insure them, but instead, they offered  as a 
goodwill gesture  an extension of a further three months which was given to allow them 
time to find another insurer.  Lloyds felt it was right and fair for them to extend the policy as 
the claim had been so close to the renewal date.  Mr and Mrs B wanted an extra year of 
cover on the basis of the difficulties that they were experiencing. But, SOL had stopped 
underwriting policies of this nature from April 2019 and for them to take on the risk by 
extending it a further 3 months; I think SOL have acted fairly and reasonably.  I am afraid 
that there are no grounds on which I can ask SOL to do anymore.   
 
 
My final decision
 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman