DRN-2253940
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Newcastle Building Society (Newcastle BS) mis-sold them 
endowment policies to repay their mortgage with it. They complain they were led to believe 
they would receive £36,500 on maturity and they didnt; they werent warned of the risks 
associated with the policies and were pressured into taking them out. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had three policies for mortgages with Newcastle BS. The first was sold in May 
1986 and had a sum assured of £12,500. I will refer to this as Policy 1. In September 1989, 
Mr and Mrs R suffered a devasting house fire in which they lost their two children. They re-
mortgaged with Newcastle BS for a new property (their previous property wasnt rebuilt) in 
December 1988. They took out a top up endowment policy for £4,000 as the mortgage they 
were taking out was for £16,500. I will call this Policy 2. 
In 1989, Mr and Mrs R took out a further advance of £3,000 for an extension. This was also 
done on an interest only basis, and a further policy taken out for the same amount. Ill call 
this Policy 3. 
I understand all policies were invested into the With-Profits funds. 
Policies 2 and 3 matured in 2011 and Mr and Mrs R surrendered Policy 1 at the same time 
and repaid their mortgage. They complained about the sale of the policies in 2019. 
Newcastle BS didnt uphold their complaint. It said Policy 1 hadnt been sold by it but another 
party. And Policies 2 and 3 had been sold on an informed choice basis but in any event the 
complaint was late. 
Our investigator concluded the complaint was late from high-risk warning letters issued.  But 
later Newcastle BS consented to this office investigating the complaint following the 
provision of information from Mr and Mrs R about their circumstances leading up to their time 
limit to complain. Our investigator ultimately concluded the policies were suitable for Mr and 
Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R disagree. They refer to their circumstances, showing they were vulnerable 
during the sales and assumptions have been made about their willingness to accept risk. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to say I cant imagine how difficult things must have been for Mr and Mrs R 
following the house fire. And quite understandably this continues to affect them to this day. 
My consideration here is whether anything went wrong during the sales process that means 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. Where the information is contradictory, 
inconclusive or incomplete, I make my decision on the balances of probabilities  that is, 
what I think likely happened given the evidence available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Policy 1. 
Newcastle BS has provided evidence from the product provider that shows this policy was 
sold by a party other than Newcastle BS. It therefore isnt responsible for any advice or 
recommendation made to Mr and Mrs R in relation to this policy, or for answering their 
complaint about it. 
If Mr and Mrs R still wish to complain about the sale of this policy, they will need to direct that 
to the party responsible, details of which they have been provided with before. I therefore 
dont uphold this part of their complaint. 
Policy 2 and 3
Mr and Mrs R have said they were led to believe the policies would achieve £36,500 on 
maturity. But it seems to me this figure is getting mixed up with the purchase price of the 
house they were buying in December 1988. They were only borrowing £16,500 (as they had 
put down a £20,000 deposit) and Policy 2, the policy taken out at this time, was only set up 
for £4,000. This was because their existing policy had a sum assured of £12,500. I find it 
highly unlikely that Mr and Mrs R were led to believe a policy set up to achieve £4,000 would 
reach £36,500. 
Mr and Mrs R also complain they were led to believe the policies were guaranteed to reach 
the target sums and achieve lumps sums in addition. Their policies were invested into the 
With-Profits fund. This was a pooled investment that usually invested into equities, bonds, 
cash and other areas, such as property. With-Profits funds are generally accepted within the 
industry as representing a low level of risk. 
The performance of the fund was dependent on the performance of the underlying 
investments. Im not aware there was any guarantee within the policies themselves that they 
would reach the target sum on maturity. I accept the policy may have been sold in a positive 
light, and that they might have been told the policies could achieve higher than the sum 
assured, but that is far from providing a guarantee. And Mr and Mrs R havent provided any 
persuasive evidence they were given a standalone guarantee as to the policies performance 
such that I would uphold this part of their complaint. 
Newcastle BS said these policies were sold on an informed choice basis. I accept it is 
possible Mr and Mrs R simply asked for additional borrowing and additional policies  given 
they already had a mortgage with it, and an endowment policy. But there isnt any 
persuasive evidence in support of that. The usual process in such situations would be for 
customers to complete some form of execution only declaration to say that no advice had 
been sought or given. 
It is equally possible that Mr and Mrs R went to Newcastle BS and were advised to take out 
the further endowment policies. It is very difficult to know with any degree of certainty what 
happened given the lack of documentation now available (this isnt surprising given how long 
ago this all happened and data protection obligations). In the absence of any execution only 
declaration, I have gone on to consider whether any advice given, if it was given, was 
suitable. Having done so, I find it was because:
Mr and Mrs R had an existing interest only mortgage with an endowment policy to 
repay that. So they had some mortgage experience. Continuing on that basis would 
not have been an unusual recommendation in the circumstances. The policies recommended were both invested into the With-Profits fund which is 
accepted to be a low risk investment. Such an investment would have been suitable 
for someone willing to take a small risk. 
Mr and Mrs R were borrowing less than 1x their joint annual income. This is far below 
the generally accepted affordable levels of 3x joint annual income for mortgages. 
This meant it highly likely they had disposable income after making their mortgage 
payments. 
Mr and Mrs R had existing savings of £7,500  nearly 50% of what they were 
borrowing.   
Although it doesnt appear a fact find was completed recording Mr and Mrs Rs 
attitude to risk, Im satisfied they were in a position to accept a low level of risk with 
their mortgage repayment. They were both employed; it was highly likely they had 
disposable income and they had existing savings. This meant they were in a position 
to build up funds to protect against any possible shortfall. I have seen nothing to 
suggest, and Mr and Mrs havent sought to argue, that the premiums werent 
affordable for them. 
The policies provided them with life cover matching the sum assured for the 
additional borrowing they took at the time. The terms of the policies also broadly 
coincided with Policy 1. 
Mr and Mrs R have argued they were vulnerable at the time, and they felt taken advantage 
of and pressured into the endowments. I do accept Mr and Mrs R were vulnerable given the 
very difficult circumstances they had faced. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence that 
Newcastle BS pressured them into taking out the endowments. Indeed, if Mr and Mrs R had 
felt pressured in 1988 when re-mortgaging, I question them returning to Newcastle BS a 
year later to take out a further advance. These dont strike me as the actions of people who 
felt pressured into their mortgage arrangements. 
Having considered the matter carefully, Im not persuaded the advice to take out two further 
endowment policies was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs and circumstances at the time. 
And whilst I dont know for certain whether they were offered repayment mortgages or not, 
that they might not have been doesnt make an otherwise suitable recommendation (if a 
recommendation was made) unsuitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman