DRN-2293400
The complaint
Ms T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) mishandled her motor insurance 
claim.
What happened
Ms T called Ageas on 7 August 2020 as she had unfortunately filled her car up with the 
wrong type of fuel. She says she wanted to make a claim on her policy as she did not have 
enough money to pay upfront fees to the garages she had called for quotes. The claim was 
processed, and a garage appointed to carry out the repair.
Ms T complained as she says the claims handler from Ageas told her she would only have to 
pay £150 excess, but she was subsequently charged £350. She says that at no point did 
they mention that she would have to pay £350 to the garage upon collection of her vehicle. 
Mr T was also unhappy with the time taken for the garage to complete her repairs.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Ageas had made the 
policy excess clear, and that they had stated this would be £350. The investigator also did 
not consider there to have been any significant delays in the repair being completed. Ms T 
disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I have listened to the phone call between Ms T and the claims handler at Ageas on 
7 August 2020. The claims handler explained to Ms T that submitting a claim would 
result in her paying her accidental damage excess of £350. Ms T also confirmed this 
with the agent by repeating it back when she said so youd charge me £350 excess 
to just drain my vehicle, which the agent confirmed would be the case. 
Ms T was told the excess would need to be paid to the garage, and that the claim 
would result in an increase in premiums and be recorded as a fault claim. The agent 
further told Ms T that it would be cheaper to call a local garage rather than paying her 
excess, but she confirmed that she wanted to make a claim in any event. Having 
listened to the phone call, I have also heard no mention of Ms T being told that her 
excess would be £150. So I think she would have known  or ought reasonably to 
have known  what she was agreeing to when she decided to pursue the claim, and 
that it would ultimately result in her having to pay £350 to the garage for the repair 
once it had been completed. 
Ms T said she was told the garage would prioritise her repair due to her profession, 
but I heard no mention of this during the phone call. The garage were unable to 
repair the vehicle at the petrol station forecourt and so had to take it in for repairs. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the garage were not qualified to carry out the 
repair, or that it could have reasonably been completed any quicker. So I do not 
consider this to warrant an award of compensation in the circumstances.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms T, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
Ageas have done anything wrong in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman