DRN-3250206
The complaint
Mr M complains about the delays in transferring his AJ Bell SIPP managed by Seven 
Investment Management LLP (7IM) to a self managed A J Bell SIPP. He says he has lost 
out financially as a result of the delays caused by 7IM. 
What happened
Mr M had an AJ Bell SIPP managed by 7IM. He decided to transfer it to a self-managed
SIPP with AJ Bell YouInvest to save costs. He set up the YouInvest account and 
requested an in-specie transfer of his holdings on 15 December 2020.
The transfer completed on 22 February 2021. Mr M complains about the delays caused by 
7IM. One of the reasons Mr M wanted to transfer was to reduce the amount of fees he was 
being charged. He says he had to pay more fees because of the delays and was not able 
to trade as he wanted to for longer, due to these delays.
Mr M complained to both 7IM and AJ Bell about the delays he said they were responsible 
for. 7IM didnt accept it was responsible for any unreasonable delays in relation to the 
work they carried out. 7IM didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M didnt accept 7IMs decision and referred his complaint to our service.Mr M also 
referred his complaint about AJ Bell to this service. The AJ Bell complaint has since been 
settled.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint against 7IM and concluded that it should not 
be upheld. Overall, he found that 7IM was not responsible for any unreasonable delays 
throughout the transfer process.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Mr Ms complaint comes to me for a decision. He said in summary:
- He didnt accept that 7IM was blameless in this matter.
- The two firms were interlinked and it was irrelevant it was the festive period. 7IM 
took five working days to produce the valuation, which a junior employee could have 
completed in five minutes.
- 7IM retained his cash balance at the end for longer than was necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and 7IM have provided this service with a timeline of events leading to the transfer. 
In the main their timelines correspond, although 7IMs timeline goes into more detail. I 
mean no criticism of Mr M in saying this, 7IM were more involved in carrying out the 
process steps to give effect to Mr Ms transfer instruction and so were aware of the key 
dates.
I have looked carefully at these timelines, and like our investigator, I cant see that 7IMs 
actions led to any unreasonable or unfair delays here. I am therfore not going to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute 7IM received a transfer request from AJ Bell on 22 December 2020. 
According to 7IMs timeline it loaded the request onto their system and sent a valuation to 
AJ Bell on 1 January 2021.
7IM said the time taken here was due to their office being closed for the festive period. 
Our investigator considered that this was a fair amount of time in the circumstances. Mr 
M didnt agree. I think it fair and reasonable that it took 7IM this long to process the 
valuation given the time of year. Mr M ackowledged it took five working days. Mr M said it 
was only a quick job, however the point is that the office was closed for the holidays.
7IM received acceptance of the transfer from AJ Bell on 26 January 2021. Again this 
appears not to be in dispute. 7IM said there was nothing further for them to do until 
they had heard back from AJ Bell that they were going to accept the transfer. I agree 
7IM werent required to do anything in the interim.
AJ Bell notified 7IM that there were three holdings they wouldnt accept and the instruction 
to sell these was raised on 27 January 2021 by 7IM, which in my view was a timely 
response to address this situation.
Im told there were a further three holdings which were unable to be transferred 
electronically and physical forms had to be sent. 7IMs system records show they were 
chasing updates on the progress of these transfers in what I consider to be a timely way.
All the holdings were transferred by 24 February 2021 and thats when 7IM sent a request 
through for final fees to be calculated to their finance team. Fees were taken and the 
remaining cash sent to AJ Bell on 1 March 2021. This was within three working days, 
which,like our investigator, I consider to be a reasonable timeframe given what was 
involved.
Overall, I dont consider that I can fairly hold 7IM responsible for any delays in 
processing Mr Ms transfer instruction. I consider that 7IM acted in a reasonable and 
timely way in the way it completed the steps it was responsible for to facilitate the 
transfer. I therefore do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October  2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman