DRN-2776884
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC declined her claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In June 2018 Mrs J purchased an air conditioning unit from a supplier and paid using her 
Tesco credit card.
In February 2020 the unit broke down. The engineer who inspected the unit said it would 
have to be replaced due to its age, because the parts werent available to repair it.
Mrs J approached the merchant and asked for a replacement. She said the plastic pipes 
supplied with the unit werent fit for purpose and that copper pipes shouldve been supplied.
Mrs J was unable to resolve tings with the supplier and made a claim under Section 75 to 
Tesco Bank. 
Tesco Bank looked at the claim but said it was unable to identify a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the merchant and declined the claim. It said the unit shouldve been 
installed by a certified and qualified engineer but hadnt been.
Mrs J remained unhappy and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said there wasnt any evidence of a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
and said she thought Tesco Bank had handled the Section 75 claim fairly.
Mrs J didnt agree. She says she was told by the salesperson at the merchant that she 
would be able to install the unit herself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mrs Js purchase of the unit was financed by credit supplied by Tesco Bank, 
Section 75 gives Mrs J an equal right to claim against Tesco Bank or the merchant if there 
has been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a 
contract.
Mrs J says that her decision to purchase the unit was influenced by the salesman telling her 
that the unit was an easy do it yourself fit and that it would last for 10 years.
There arent any notes of the discussions which took place between Mrs J and the 
salesman, nor has the salesman provided a statement. Because I wasnt present, I cant be 
certain of exactly what was said. In circumstances like these, I need to look at all of the 
available evidence, including any relevant documentation, to decide whats most likely to 
have happened.
Ive looked at the product manual for the unit. This says that the system is called easyfit 
because of the type of flexible pipe supplied with it. It also says that the unit must be 
installed by a certified and qualified F gas engineer. Theres nothing in the product manual to 
suggest that the unit can be fitted as a do it yourself project.
Based on the available information, Im not persuaded that there is evidence to show that a 
misrepresentation was made. The product manual makes it clear that a qualified person 
must fit the unit and theres nothing to suggest that the product was suitable to be fitted as a 
do it yourself project.
Ive gone on to consider whether there has been a breach of contract. A breach of contract is 
where  supplier fails to do what the contract says, or where the goods supplied arent of 
satisfactory quality.
Mrs J says that the plastic pipes supplied with the unit werent fit for purpose. I havent seen 
anything in the product manual to suggest that the product shouldve been supplied and/or 
fitted with copper pipes. The product manual says that the plastic pipes supplied make the 
product easy to fit, which suggest that plastic pipes are appropriate for the unit and are 
supplied as standard.
Ive taken into account the engineers report. This suggests that the unit was fitted by a non-
certified and non-qualified engineer. The report doesnt say that the plastic pipes arent 
suitable for the unit.  Nor does it say that the unit is of unsatisfactory quality. On balance, I 
think its likely that the unit broke down as a result of issues caused by having been fitted by 
a non-qualified person.
On balance, I havent seen any evidence to suggest  that there has been a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract. Nor have I seen anything to suggest that Tesco 
Bank didnt handle the claim fairly. Therefore, I wont be asking Tesco Bank to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman