DRN-4055372
The complaint
Mr C complains that Starling Bank Limited recorded information about him with the fraud 
database Cifas.
What happened
Mr C had an account with Starling. In January 2021, Starling restricted the account and 
emailed Mr C to ask for further information about some payments into the account. Starling 
wanted to know more about Mr Cs relationship with the payer, the reasons for the 
payments, and if there was a reason the payments hed received werent in his name. It also 
asked Mr C to let it know if hed made the payments on someone elses behalf.
Starling didnt receive a response. So in February, having chased Mr C several more times 
for an answer, Starling decided to close Mr Cs account.
Around a year later, Mr C tried to apply for an individual savings account with another bank. 
The application was refused, and the other bank closed Mr Cs current account and savings 
account. It then came to light that at the same time Starling closed Mr Cs account it 
recorded information with the Cifas national fraud database. 
Mr C got in touch with Starling asking them to remove the marker. In response, Starling 
asked once again for information about the payments into Mr Cs account. Starling asked Mr 
C whether hed been instructed to carry out the activity on his account, why hed been asked 
to do it, and whether he was promised anything in return. Starling also asked if hed provided 
his Starling login details to anyone.
Mr C replied that he opened his account in 2020 and hadnt added any payees. He said he 
didnt recognise the payees on the statement. He also said that he was at work at the time 
the transactions were made  so they couldnt have been done by him.
Starling looked into this and said that although it was unable to remove the information from 
Cifas entirely, it would amend the loading to reflect its suspicions that the activity was carried 
out either by or following instructions from a third party. Dissatisfied, Mr C referred the 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at this, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Financial businesses like Starling are subject to legal and regulatory requirements. These 
mean that Starling need to have policies and procedures in place to combat financial crime -
and may need to review accounts at any time. 
And in order to register information with Cifas, Starling needed to carry out checks of 
sufficient depth to meet the burden of proof set by Cifas. There needed to be reasonable 
grounds for Starling to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or 
attempted; the evidence needed to be clear, relevant and rigorous, and Starling needed to 
have closed the account on that basis.
In practice, this means that Starling needs to show that fraudulent funds have entered the 
account. Starling needs to have strong evidence to show the customer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the payment. When assessing whether the customer was complicit in 
any wrong doing, Starling needed to consider any evidence and testimony supplied by the 
customer. But if a customer declines or ignores opportunities to explain the conduct, then 
Starling can file information with Cifas without that explanation.
Mr C says he never used this account after he opened it in December 2020. But in January 
2021, the account received payments of, in total, around £1,200. These were rapidly paid to 
another account belonging to a third party. As Starling explained in its final response, it 
received reports about some payments into Mr Cs account. And when Starling contacted 
Mr C for information about these payments, Mr C ignored it.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Starling was justified in loading information to Cifas. I note 
Starling emailed Mr C five times, over the course of a month, before it decided to close Mr 
Cs account  and that these emails were sent to Mr Cs usual email address. And while I 
dont doubt that subsequently losing access to his current and savings accounts was 
distressing, this isnt something I can hold Starling responsible for: those were decisions 
made by another business, and what happened in any case ultimately stemmed from Mr Cs 
failure to explain, when questioned, what had happened to his account.
After Mr C got in touch with Starling, it looked at matters again. Mr C told Starling that he 
didnt recognise these payments. He says nobody instructed him to carry out any activity and 
that he never shared his login details. Starling, meanwhile, told Mr C that for someone to 
make the payments out of his account theyd need to have access to his account details. 
Moreover, Starling says that to add a new device on its app, the user needs to pass video 
verification. Starling has, however, amended the loading on the Cifas database.
Thinking about all of this, I dont accept that Starlings decision to maintain the Cifas loading 
is unfair. Its plain that someone was using Mr Cs account  and these transactions took 
place very shortly after the account opened. Whoever did this needed at the very least to 
have the security credentials for Mr Cs account  and had to use a verified device. Mr C at 
first ignored Starlings requests for information, and hasnt offered a plausible explanation as 
to how someone else might have gained access to his account.
Mr C, through his representative, suggests that the fact that Starling amended the 
information it logged with Cifas suggests it was inaccurate to begin with. But as Ive 
explained, Mr C failed to provide the information Starling needed, and Starling only changed 
its position once Mr C contacted them. So this doesnt change my conclusion. Finally, I 
appreciate that Mr C would like further details of Starlings investigation. But Starling isnt 
required to share this information and nor would it be appropriate for me to tell Starling to 
share this with Mr C.In all the circumstances, I conclude that Starling fairly registered the information with Cifas. 
So Im not going to tell Starling to remove it.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman