DRN-3834075
The complaint
Ms C complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Drafty, provided her with credit when she 
could not afford it.
What happened
This was not a loan. Drafty offered a credit facility which commenced with a limit being
determined and then the customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she required.
The credit was unsecured and had no fixed duration.
Briefly, Ms C applied for a credit facility of £200 in September 2018 and Drafty approved it.
The limit was increased several times. In December 2018 to £600, in April 2019 to £780,
September 2019 to £890, and in January 2020 to £1,020 and it remained at that. Ms C had
declared that her monthly income for her full time employment was £2,482 and her monthly
expenditure was £1,200. So, it had calculated that Ms Cs disposable monthly income was
£1,282. Drafty says that it carried out credit checks.
The credit agreement set out the total cost of the credit based on some assumptions to
illustrate the likely cost to Ms C. On the assumption that Ms C drew down the full £200 on
the first day and then repaid it (plus interest and charges) over 12 months in equal
instalments then the total amount payable would have been just over £266. This would have
equated to about £22 a month (Clause 5 in the agreement).
The arrangement did include a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced
ten days before Ms Cs salary payment, and it gave the minimum payment required for that
cycle. It had to be the higher of certain calculations which are in the agreement at clause 6
which I have not set out here.
A Continuous Payment Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Ms Cs
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment were made available. Using the information
I have from Drafty, the account was suspended in March 2021 there is an outstanding
balance on the account.
In November 2022, one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Draftys
decision to approve the credit facility initially was right. And in relation to that part where
Drafty ought to monitor the account, she thought that Drafty should have suspended the
account from 24 June 2020.
Drafty did not agree with our adjudicators redress calculations and so the whole complaint
remained unresolved and was passed to me. 
I considered it all and issued a provisional decision on 24 February 2023. Both parties had 
until 10 March 2023 to respond. I have duplicated the provisional decision in the next section 
of this decision and it is in smaller type to differentiate it, and forms part of this decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My finding in my provisional decision dated 24 February 2023
I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the 
credit was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should take
proportionate steps to understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks,
they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to lend. The key element
was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider several different things,
including how much was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid.
Initial approval of the credit facility.
Ms C has explained some personal circumstances which affected her and her family in or
around 2018 and for privacy reasons I make no mention of details here. Ms C has said:
I took out a Drafty loan on 08/09/18, I was in some financial difficulty at the time. Due
to continuing financial difficulty I continued to utilise further advances offered by
Drafty to enable me to support my children and pay other debts. Drafty continued to
offer further advances despite further missed payments and defaults being lodged on
my credit file. Since opening the account I had 4 further defaults on my credit file and
during this time I was offered 3 further advances.
Then 5 months after the latest default despite always maintaining my monthly
payments one way or another I received communication from Drafty advising I was
being placed on a managed payment plan which was increasing my payment from
2% to 8% which on top of my existing financial difficulties was completely
unmanageable for me.
Yes during that time I confirmed my income and that I would afford the additional
advances, in reality I could not and was using this as means to stay afloat and pay
other debts. My credit file reflected this with missed payments and defaults.
I need to explain to Ms C that upon first approaching Drafty in September 2018, usually it
would not be expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and
comprehensive financial review.
Ms C was a new customer. And bearing in mind the credit limit granted and the monthly
payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable period, Drafty was entitled to rely
on the information given to it which suggested that Ms C had enough disposable income to
service a credit facility with a limit of £200.
However, Drafty has sent to us its results of the credit search it did in September 2018. Their
brevity is usual as I am used to seeing the format in which these credit searches are
presented to us. And although it was not a requirement that Drafty carried out a credit search
before lending it did do that. Id consider that to have been prudent.
Having got that information  even in its brief format  then it needed to be factored into the
creditworthiness assessment. And here is a summary of Ms Cs results:
Number of default 
accountsValue of default 
accounts Number of delinquent 
accountsValue of 
delinquent 
accounts
3 accounts, most recent 
being four months £8,800 4, and the most recent 
being four months £17,000before before
The value of the nine active accounts Ms C was registered as having was £20,000. Likely
there was an overlap between these figures.
The credit search did not reveal that Ms C had a mortgage, but I know from her own credit
file that she did. I cant explain why that would not have registered.
In my view this gave Drafty enough to consider that additional checks ought to have been
done. The amount of the credit limit was low at £200 and I have seen that Ms C applied for
that sum which is a modest application. But  having thought carefully  I think that the
recent debt history was enough for Drafty to have done more. And I dont necessarily mean
a full financial review and that might have meant looking at Ms Cs bills and payslips and
outgoings, or her bank account statements. I mean that it could have utilised the information
it had searched already and gather more detail. And I say that because the amount Ms C
was asking for was modest.
I have the benefit of the credit file sent to us by Ms C and reviewing that I can see a
correlation in the information (in brief form) Drafty had obtained and the detail that credit file
from Ms C provided. It shows me that the defaults had been for credit cards and for
substantial sums. And she had several debt collection accounts which meant that she had
had other issues earlier in time such that those accounts were already with debt collectors.
Plus, Ms C had one bank loan costing her £341 a month, and she was paying a mail order
account around £73 a month and had two loans with another company costing £28 each
(£56) so these added up to £470 at least.
Ms Cs mortgage was a joint account and the monthly cost was £632. Draftys FRL does
show that she had told it about her rent/mortgage cost and had listed it as £475. That may
have been because she shared it with her husband. The food cost of £125 a month was far
too low to have been a reasonable figure and so Id say it ought to have been increased.
Even having done that, on a pure pounds and pence calculation, I think that Drafty may
have concluded she could afford the facility. But a creditworthiness assessment needs to go
further and in some sets of circumstances, such as these with Ms C, where Drafty knew of
Ms Cs recent issues with managing her money then I think it ought to have done more.
So, even if Drafty had drilled into the detail of the credit search it had already carried out,
I consider it would have found out the same sort of details I have from Ms Cs credit file
report. Admittedly they are not always the same but here they broadly show the same  that
Ms C had had recent severe difficulties leading to several recent defaults and was dealing
with other delinquent accounts too.
Having thought about it carefully I do not think that Drafty should have lent to Ms C at all.
I plan to uphold Ms Cs complaint from the beginning and I plan to direct that Drafty puts
things right for her from September 2018.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
In that provisional decision, I indicated that in view of the age of this complaint I am unlikely 
to be persuaded to accept any extensions of time from either party without good reason. 
Resolutions is what both parties need on this complaint.
How did both parties respond?
Ms C has agreed with my provisional findings.Drafty has responded to say that it agrees and will refund the interest and charges from 
8 September 2018 and will remove adverse information from Ms Cs credit file from 
8 September 2018. 
Its calculations (which are not set out here) indicate that there will be a set off  which 
I agree with  and Ms Cs refund will mean that the account will be paid off and likely closed. 
Considering the responses form both parties than I see no reason to depart from the 
provisional findings duplicated above. Those are repeated here and become part of the final 
decision.
For the reasons given, I uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
Putting things right
My understanding that the current state of the account is that Ms C has been paying under a 
repayment plan and there is an outstanding sum. If that remains the case, and if the debt is 
with another third party, then Drafty needs to bring the debt back in-house and remove any 
of that third partys costs so that those are not passed on to Ms C. Then Drafty needs to do 
as follows:
Re-work Ms Cs credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to  
it from the beginning in September 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Ms C to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms C, along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement.
If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty
should remove any adverse information from Ms Cs credit file including the default
entry.
I note that Draftys recent response indicates it will do all of the above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint and I direct that Gain Credit LLC, trading 
as Drafty, should put things right for Ms C as outlined in my decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman