DRN-3209857
The complaint
Mrs H complains that J D Williams & Company Limited have added late payment markers to 
her credit file from 2015 to 2018.
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said J D Williams had fairly 
updated Mrs Hs credit file in line with the terms and conditions of her account. And if Mrs H 
had any evidence she made the payments on time then J D Williams had said it would be 
willing to consider that further. 
Mrs H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said J D Williams agreed to 
remove the £12 charges for late payments because it told her it was at fault for the late 
payments. So, she said because the charges had been removed the missed payments 
recorded on her credit file should also be removed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
This service can ask J D Williams to amend Mrs Hs credit file if we think the late payment 
marker has been added incorrectly or unfairly. However, Im not satisfied it has. The terms 
and conditions of Mrs Hs agreement say that in the event she doesnt pay back the money 
owed when asked this can affect Mrs Hs credit rating and she may be charged. 
Its the responsibility of Mrs H to make payments on time. Ive checked the account 
statements and Im satisfied a missed payment code was applied to her account when a 
payment wasnt made in line with the terms and conditions. Therefore, J D Williams is 
entitled to make the credit reference agencies aware of how the account is being run by 
Mrs H so that the information held by the credit reference agencies is accurate. This includes 
updating her credit file with the late payments. So, Im satisfied the late payment marker on 
Mrs Hs credit file was added correctly here.
Mrs H has said that the late payments should be removed from her record because 
J D Williams told her on the phone at the time of the late payments that it was at fault for her 
not making the payments on time. Unfortunately, the call recordings are no longer available 
from 2015 to 2018. So, Ive carefully reviewed the statements provided by J D Williams here 
and the account notes. If J D Williams removed the £12 charges because they were added 
unfairly or incorrectly, Id expect to see some notes over the three-year period Mrs H 
received the charges and refunds to confirm that was the case. But I havent seen any 
evidence on J D Williams system notes to show thats what happened. 
I note the payment fees were removed but that doesnt automatically mean the payments 
were made on time. J D Williams can use its discretion to remove late payment charges its 
applied to an account even if the payment was made late. 
So, I cant say that J D Williams has done anything wrong in applying the late payment fees, 
since they have acted in line with their terms and conditions. Im not therefore going to ask it 
to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman