DRN-1622599
The complaint
Mrs S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2002.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
The PPI policy was sold to Mrs S when she applied for a store card in 2002.
The policy cost £1.00 per month for every £100 outstanding on Mrs Ss statement each 
month. If Mrs S was unable to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment the policy 
could have paid 15% of Mrs Ss outstanding balance each month until either the balance 
was cleared, or Mrs S returned to work. From what Ive seen it looks like Mrs S was charged 
£379.95 in PPI premiums before the policy was cancelled.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Having done so I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint, Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Mrs S information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that she 
could decide whether to buy the policy. I dont think AXA made the cost of the policy clear to 
Mrs S.
I say this as the application form signed by Mrs S gives no details of the cost of the policy.
I think this would have made a difference to Mrs S as shes told us she had existing 
resources that she could have relied on to make the monthly repayments if she became too 
unwell to work.
Mrs S worked in the public sector and was entitled to a generous sick pay package. Mrs S 
has told us she would receive six months full pay if she became too unwell to work. From 
experience, it is also possible she would have continued to receive half pay for a further six 
months.
In addition, Mrs S has told us she had savings of around £12,000 at the time she took out 
the store card. Mrs S has told us that £5,000 was from her own savings whilst another 
£7,000 was from an inheritance.In response to the adjudicators findings, AXA questioned Mrs Ss savings and sick pay as it 
said there were inconsistencies between Mrs Ss original complaint forms sent to AXA and 
the forms submitted to this service. Ive thought about this, but the sale took place 18 years 
ago and memories do fade. But it is clear Mrs S was working in the public sector, so I do 
think she would have received a good level of sick pay. And Mrs S has been consistent that 
she had access to a good level of savings. So taking everything into account I think it is likely 
Mrs S had enough resources available to her to meet the monthly store card repayments 
without the PPI policy.
So, if Mrs S was given clear information about the cost of the policy, I dont think she would 
have thought it good value for her. And I dont think she would have gone ahead and bought 
the policy. 
 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
AXA should find out how much Mrs S wouldve owed when the account was closed if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed the 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have owed 
when she closed the account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should 8% a year. 
If  when AXA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs S paid 
more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the extra 
Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S wouldve owed 
AXA something on the credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give    
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
I note its possible Mrs S has already received some of the cost of the PPI back as 
compensation for undisclosed commission. If this is the case AXA can take off what she 
received from the total it owes her.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay Mrs S compensation as set out in 
this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.Steve Thomas
Ombudsman