DRN-1899546
The complaint
Mr A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited closed a claim under his mobile 
phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had mobile phone insurance with Assurant. On 23 November 2019 he made a claim
because hed lost his phone. He also reported the loss to his service provider who blocked 
the phone and sent a replacement SIM card. Assurant accepted the claim and asked for 
proof of usage, which Mr A provided. He also confirmed the phone was connected to his 
cloud storage and remote location tracking accounts, and that it was protected by a 
passcode, which only he knew. 
In addition to the information hed already given, Assurant asked Mr A for proof the SIM card 
had been replaced and evidence the phone was in lost mode. It followed this with an email 
dated 10 November 2019 reiterating its request and telling him not to remove the device 
from either his storage or remote location tracking accounts. And when Mr A contacted 
Assurant to tell it he hadnt received the email, the content of the email was read out to him 
and explained over the phone.
Mr A later told Assurant he had no evidence the SIM card had been replaced and he couldnt 
show the phone was in lost mode because hed removed it from the accounts. Assurant 
responded to say it couldnt proceed with the claim because Mr A had failed to produce the 
information it had asked for, therefore it couldnt link ownership of the phone to Mr A. It told 
him it had evidence the phone had been connected to the remote location tracking account 
and then removed after it had asked him not to do so. 
Mr A complained to Assurant, but it maintained its position. It said it asked for further 
documentation to assess each claim fairly and accurately. Mr A had been asked to provide 
screen shots of the phone in lost mode and not to remove it from the cloud storage and 
remote location tracking accounts, but the phone was removed, meaning the documentation 
required to assess the claim couldnt be provided.
Mr A complained to this service. He explained he was unable to provide the evidence 
Assurant had asked for because hed realised his phone number had been changed, so he 
removed the phone from his cloud storage account to avoid fraud. He also said he didnt 
receive the email from Assurant telling him not to remove the phone from the app.
Assurant argued only Mr A could have removed the phone from the remote location tracking 
account suggesting that either the phone hadnt been lost, or someone else knew the ID and 
password. It acknowledged Mr A had said hed removed the phone from the cloud storage 
account as he had seen an unrecognized number but, because of that, it could no longer 
assess the claim.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Assurant had provided call 
recordings which showed Mr A had contacted Assurant on 10 November 2019 to tell it he 
hadnt received the email and he was told by the call handler not to remove the phone from 
the accounts or it wouldnt be able to proceed with the claim. Consequently, she felt 
Assurants subsequent decision not to proceed with the claim was fair.
Mr As asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes explained English is 
not his first language and while he accepts Assurant may have told him not to delete the 
app, there may have been a misunderstanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states, we may ask for additional information and documentation in order to 
assess your claim. This could include documentation to show when the device was last 
used, when any loss or theft was reported to your network, or to verify your identity. Insurers 
are entitled to ask for evidence to verify claims and Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Assurant to have asked Mr A to produce evidence that the SIM had been replaced and that 
the phone was in lost mode as part of its assessment of the claim. 
Mr A was sent an email instructing him not to remove the phone from the cloud storage or remote 
location tracking accounts, but he didnt receive the email. However, he contacted Assurant to tell it 
he hadnt received the email and the call handler read it out to him over the phone. So, Im satisfied 
he was told not to remove the phone from the accounts. 
Mr A has said he didnt understand what he was told because English isnt his first language. But 
having listened to the call, Im satisfied that, notwithstanding the language barrier, his responses 
suggest he did understand what he was being asked to do, and how to do it. 
Mr As explained he removed the phone from the accounts because he saw an 
unrecognised number and was concerned about fraud. But in those circumstances, he 
should reasonably have contacted Assurant for advice before going ahead and removing the 
phone from the accounts, contrary to what hed been asked to do. 
I understand Mr A will be disappointed but as he failed to provide Assurant with the evidence 
it reasonably requested as part of its investigation of the claim, Im satisfied its decision not 
to proceed with the claim was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman