DRN-2107461
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how Zurich Insurance PLC has handled her claim on her home 
insurance
What happened
Mrs D had home insurance with Zurich. In August 2016 she made a claim as roots from 
neighbouring trees were causing damage to her driveway. Zurich declined the claim as it 
said the damage was due to gradual causes and wear and tear which was excluded under 
the policy.
In August 2018 Mrs D noticed cracks in her the garage and in the main property, so she 
made another claim. Zurich sent contractors out who said the damage was caused by 
thermal expansion which was excluded under the policy.
In September 2018 Mrs D made a complaint about delays to the claim progressing. A final 
response was issued in which Zurich offered £200 compensation and directed a new loss 
adjuster to look at the claim. This was subsequently reviewed by this service and our 
investigator didnt think Zurich needed to do anything more at this stage. 
Following this complaint, Zurichs newly appointed contractors visited the property in 2018. 
Following this visit, Zurich accepted the claim for damage to her property caused by 
subsidence. However, Mrs D also claimed for the damage to her driveway. This wasnt 
accepted as Zurich said it was caused by a different peril and therefore not covered under 
the policy.
Further investigations were required in order to determine the appropriate repairs and put 
together a scope of works. This happened throughout 2019 as well as necessary repairs to 
drains. By October 2019 the repairs to the main house were ready to begin, however Mrs D 
still had questions about the scope and wasnt prepared to pay the £1,000 excess in order 
for the work to start.
By the end of 2019 Mrs D wasnt happy that the repairs still hadnt begun. She made a 
complaint to Zurich.
Zurich responded and accepted there had been some avoidable delays. However it said that 
subsidence claims do often take a long time to settle. It offered her an additional £250 
compensation.
Mrs D didnt think this was enough. She said she had to chase Zurich repeatedly which had 
been inconvenient. She said Zurich should pay the £1,000 excess and make a contribution 
towards the cost of the driveway to make up for this. She brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he thought £250 was enough to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delays.
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this claim has been ongoing for some time. So I can understand why Mrs D is 
frustrated. Zurich has accepted there have been some avoidable delays since the last 
complaint this service looked at from October 2018. It has offered £250 compensation to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience these delays have caused. I need to decide if 
this is enough to put things right.
I have reviewed the correspondence and reports completed between October 2018 and 
December 2019. I can see that there have been a number of occasions where information 
has been delayed and hasnt been passed on to Mrs D in good time. On two occasions, 
contractors have visited the property and a report hasnt been provided until months 
afterwards.
Further I can see that Mrs D has had to repeatedly send emails to chase up these reports 
and to check on progress of the claim. I agree this would have been inconvenient and 
distressing as she wasnt getting any reassurance about when the problems in her home 
would be fixed. 
Having said this Zurich has progressed the claim since Mrs Ds last complaint. It appointed 
new contractors an carried out investigations in order to identify the problems present and 
the repairs that would be necessary. The first contractor attended the property shortly after 
the conclusion of Mrs Ds first complaint. And the report compiled said further investigation 
would be needed. These investigations were completed in the first half of 2019. And by 
October 2019 repairs were ready to begin. 
Subsidence claims are often complex and can take some time to resolve. There are usually 
a number of different experts involved who need to insepct the property and a period of 
monitoring is often required. This also slows down the claim as information has to be passed 
between each of the experts. I can see that there were times where Zurich didnt proactively 
chase reports from its contractors and this no doubt caused extra delays. However when 
considering the action taken across the year I dont thing this had a big impact on how long it 
took the complaint to be resolved.
Zurich has offered Mrs D £250 compensation to make up for these delays. And I think this is 
enough to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her. So I wont ask it to 
do anything further.
I note that Mrs D has also raised concerns about the impact the claim will have on future 
home insurance. It is an unfortunate consequence of a subsidence claim that this may have 
an impact on future offers of insurance policies and the premiums charged. However this is 
because of the peril itself and not because of how Zurich has handled the claim. So I cant 
say Zurich are responsible for this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Zurich Insurance PLC to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman