DRN-3477207
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Logbook Money Limited (LBM) was irresponsible to have 
agreed credit for her.
What happened
LBM provided Miss H with a loan of £1,500 on 26 April 2021. The total amount of £4,200, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of £53.85 or 
about £230 a month (figures rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Miss H provided 
LBM with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Miss H didnt make her loan 
repayments LBM could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of her vehicle.
It seems Miss H didnt meet her repayments from the outset and was charged late 
payment and vehicle recovery fees. LBM sent an account statement to Miss H on 12 July 
2021 which showed the account balance as £4,748.30 and offered a settlement figure of 
£2,544.15. I understand the loan was settled a few days later.
Miss H says that LBM didnt look into her finances properly before lending to her, 
despite it having access to her bank accounts. Miss H has also explained that she 
suffers with a mental health condition which contributes to her problems managing 
money. Miss H says that she has no control over her finances which should have been 
clear from her bank statements. She also says that she gambles.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Hs complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld. They found that Miss H didnt have enough money to meet her loan repayments 
and that she wasnt likely to be able to repay the loan sustainably given her gambling. 
They recommended that LBM refund Miss H everything shed paid above the original 
amount she borrowed, along with compensatory interest.
LBM didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. I issued a provisional decision on the 12 April 2022 
explaining why I planned to uphold Miss Hs complaint and allowed time for both parties 
to comment on what Id said or provide new information. Miss H has accepted my 
provisional findings and Ive had no response from LBM. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again and having no new information or comment to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. For completeness, I 
will set out my reasoning and conclusions again in this final decision on the matter. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, LBM will be aware of the relevant regulations so I 
will summarise them. LBM needed to check that Miss H could afford to meet her 
repayments out of her usual means without having to borrow further, without missing any 
of her existing obligations and without experiencing significant adverse impacts. LBM was 
required to take reasonable steps to estimate Miss Hs income and (non-discretionary) 
expenditure, and to estimate any reductions in income where it was reasonably 
foreseeable that a reduction was likely. LBM also needed to have regard to any 
information of which it was aware at the time that might have indicated that Miss H was 
in, had recently experienced or was likely to experience, financial difficulties.
One of the rules set out by the regulator stated that a business must not accept an 
application for a loan where it suspects that the applicant has not been truthful in 
completing it, for example where the information declared might be inconsistent with other 
information (CONC 5.2A.36R). The overarching requirement was that LBM needed to pay 
due regard to Miss Hs interests and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of 
contravening this as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are 
unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, 
disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did LBM complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Miss Hs application to satisfy itself that she would 
be able to make her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did LBM 
make a fair lending decision?
LBM provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decision. 
This included a record of what Miss H had said about her income and expenditure and 
telephone recordings from the application process. LBM also provided a transaction 
listing from one of Miss Hs bank accounts covering dates from 25 January to 24 April 
2021.
I reviewed all this information and listened to the call recordings.
LBM says it checked what Miss H had said about her income and expenditure against 
what it could see on her account transactions and relied on an income figure of £2,550 
comprising £1,350 salary, £900 state benefits and £300 from other (unidentified) sources. 
Miss H had declared expenses of £1,835, which potentially left her with £715 a month to 
cover her repayments.
The transaction report from LBM (from January to March 2021) showed that Miss Hs 
income varied from £1,200 to £1,456, and her benefits from £783 to £1,118. It also 
showed that Miss H spent money on gambling, over £500 in February for example. Ive 
noted Miss H was making regular monthly payments of £150 to an individual and made 
many transfers to and from two other accounts  the report calculated a total of 88 bank 
transfers in a 90 day period and two returned direct debits.
I think LBM ought to have been concerned that Miss H would not have enough money to 
meet her loan repayments in any one month, given the variation in her means and her 
spending on gambling, both of which it knew about. I also think LBM should have 
considered that a loan might not be suitable for Miss H, as she seemed to be having 
difficulties managing her money as indicated by the very frequent account transfers.
I understand that LBM asked Miss H for bank statements for one of her other accounts, 
and she provided snapshots of these covering 11 January to 9 March 2021. The 
transactions shown consist entirely of transfers to and from her main account, with 
sometimes tens of transactions a day. Miss H transferred money into this account then immediately back into her main account in many smaller transactions over the course of a 
day or two. I dont think this pattern of money management would have provided any 
reassurance to LBM that Miss H would be able to meet her repayments on its loan 
without difficulty.
LBM said (in response to our investigators recommendations) that Miss H wasnt truthful 
in her loan application and that this should form part of my considerations when making a 
decision on her complaint. As Ive explained, I think LBM had enough information to 
understand that it wasnt likely Miss H would be able to meet her loan repayments without 
difficulty irrespective of what shed said about her circumstances. So Ive concluded that 
LBM was unfair to have agreed a loan for Miss H on this occasion.
I understand that Miss H made no payments to the loan. She explained that she asked a 
family member for help and was able to settle the loan before a bailiff collected her car. 
She said that at the time of the loan she had a poor credit rating and provided a copy of 
her credit file. This shows that Miss H had a history of defaulting on credit. The most 
recent defaults included an overdraft in March 2021, and two telecoms accounts in 
August and October 2020, and she had an active county court judgement from June 
2016. I can see Miss H continued to borrow from other lenders after this loan had been 
settled, and her payment problems have continued. Altogether, I think taking out this loan 
had an adverse impact on Miss H and Ive set out below what LBM needs to do put things 
right.
Putting things right
I understand that the loan has now been repaid and Miss H paid interest and charges on 
the money she borrowed. In order to put things right for her, LBM needs to:
a) Refund to Miss H payments she made above the amount of £1,500 she 
borrowed. To be clear this includes any interest or charges associated with the 
credit or its collection; and
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss Hs credit file; and
d) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Miss Hs car if this is still in place and return any 
relevant documents to her if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LBM to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Miss Hs complaint about Logbook Money 
Limited and require it to put things right for her as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman