The complaint
Mrs B complains about the service she received from Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax 
when her card went missing while she was in branch. She'd like a full explanation and 
compensation for what happened.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs B went in her local branch of Halifax to make a deposit. She used the 
counter service but when she went  to leave she couldn't find her card. She asked the staff 
in branch to check but it couldn't be found.
Mrs B went back the next day to see if the card had been found but it hadn't. She also asked 
to view the CCTV but was told that the police would need to request this. Mrs B cancelled 
her card that day and a replacement card was sent out.
Mrs B reported the loss to the police. The police report referred to two conversations with the 
branch in which the branch had confirmed the card had been retained in the card reader and 
destroyed. On that basis the police didn't ask to see the CCTV and closed its file.
Mrs B is unhappy at the way the bank dealt with the loss of her card. She says there was 
only one other customer and two members of staff in branch at the time but when she found 
her card was missing, the staff tried to rush her out of the door as it was closing time. She 
notes that the police report stated that the card was retained in branch when Halifax told her 
that this wasn't possible. She says both can't be right and she's concerned that Halifax is 
trying to cover up what really happened. She'd like Halifax to accept it was responsible, to 
apologise and explain what happened and pay compensation for her upset and 
inconvenience.
Halifax didn't agree it had done anything wrong. It said Mrs B would have needed to use her 
card to authorise the transaction. She would also have needed to remove it before 
the transaction could be completed. It noted the card reader was on the customer side of 
the counter  and wasn't easily accessible by the staff.  It said when Mrs B reported the card 
was missing, the staff had searched the branch and when it couldn't be found, they'd offered 
to cancel it and order a new one. Mrs B had declined. With regard to the CCTV, it said this 
was kept for security purposes and it couldn't release this to Mrs B without a police request. 
Our investigator noted there were two very different explanations for what happened to the 
card. While on the information available, she couldn't say whether the card had been lost or 
stolen, she could understand why Mrs B felt confused. She felt Halifax hadn't taken this into 
account when looking at this complaint  but, instead, had focussed only on the question of 
financial loss. However Mrs B had clearly been upset by the different explanations in this 
DRN-1820198case and Halifax hadn't been able to resolve this. For that reason, she recommended it pay 
Mrs B £75 to compensate her for the distress this had caused.
 Halifax accepted the recommendation but said it didn't know who the police had spoken to 
and couldn't explain why the police report said the card had been retained in the card 
reader. Mrs B however remained unhappy with Halifax's handling of this matter and for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is unclear, contradictory or disputed as it is here then I have made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is what's more likely than not to have 
happened.
Its clear there are two very different explanations for what happened in this case. Halifax has 
said it wasn't possible for the card to have been retained in the card reader while the police 
report states that this is what happened. Unfortunately I can't resolve this with any certainty 
although it seems improbable that if the card had been left in the card reader that it wouldn't 
have been noticed at the time.
However I can understand Mrs B's frustration at being given such conflicting accounts. Its 
unhelpful and its clear Mrs B has now lost confidence in the bank and the way its dealt with 
this. For that reason, although I'm pleased to see Mrs B hasn't suffered any financial loss, I 
think its right that Halifax should compensate her for the upset and inconvenience she's 
had. 
I've seen Halifax offered to cancel the card on the day and order a replacement and 
realistically I don't think there was much more it could have done at the time.  And even 
though Mrs B didn't take up this offer on the day, this was done the next day so the matter 
was effectively resolved within a short time. For that reason I consider £75 to be a 
reasonable award for the impact of what happened and the time it lasted. 
As I've explained above, although the card went missing its not clear why or that Halifax is 
responsible for this.  On that basis I can't reasonably ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs B's complaint in part and direct Bank of Scotland 
trading as Halifax to pay her £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the different 
explanations for the loss of her card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman