DRN-1562711
The complaint
Mrs C says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs C had one loan with Mr Lender in December 2017. The loan was for £250, repayable in 
six monthly instalments and the total amount repayable was £446.41.
An adjudicator considered Mrs C's complaint but didn't think it should the upheld. The 
adjudicator didn't think Mr Lender had lent to Mrs C irresponsibly. Mrs C didn't agree - she 
didn't think Mr Lender had done enough to check the loan was affordable for her. As there 
was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mrs C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending to Mrs C, Mr Lender asked her for some information about her income and 
expenditure. It recorded that Mrs C said her income was £1,400 per month and her total 
expenditure £725 per month. Mr Lender also carried out a credit check, which appears to 
have been fairly 'light touch' check which didn't provide it with any significant details about 
Mrs C's other credit commitments.
Although Mr Lender's credit check was 'light touch', I think this was within the rules and was 
proportionate for a loan of this size. I don't agree with Mrs C that it would've been 
proportionate for Mr Lender to ask her for copies of her bank statements. The monthly 
repayments appeared to be easily affordable, based on Mrs C's declared income and 
expenditure and I think it was proportionate for Mr Lender to place significant weight on this 
information, given that this was Mrs C first (and only) loan and was for a relatively small 
amount.
As I think Mr Lender's checks were proportionate and as those checks suggested the loan 
was affordable for Mrs C, I don't think it was wrong for Mr Lender to have agreed this loan. 
I'm not therefore upholding Mrs C's complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against PDL Finance Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman