DRN-3462456
The complaint
Mr T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc did not inform him his credit file would be 
affected when he arranged a credit card payment plan. 
What happened
Mr Ts credit card account with Capital One was opened on 29 March 2017. 
On or around 20 January 2021, Capital One was informed that Mr T was in financial 
difficulties and it set up a repayment plan. The agreement was that Mr T would pay £48 per 
month towards his credit card for three months. It appears that interest and charges were 
then frozen on the account. The first payment in accordance with this arrangement was due 
on 28 January 2021, with the final payment due on 28 March 2021. Mr T stuck to that 
arrangement and made all repayments on time. 
On 6 April 2021, a credit card statement was issued to Mr T showing that interest charges 
had resumed and that he needed to pay £48 by 2 May 2021. No payment was made by the 
due date. 
On 3 May 2021, Mr T told Capital One he had lost his job and wanted to extend his payment 
plan. He acknowledged that he had missed his most recent repayment. Capital One 
refunded the late payment charge and told Mr T not to worry about the missed repayment. A 
payment plan of £40 per month was set up with the first payment due on 28 May 2021. Mr T 
stuck to the repayment plan. 
Sometime later, Mr T complained to Capital One that he wasnt told being in a repayment 
plan would affect his credit score. He said he was only accepted for a mortgage with a 
higher interest rate because of the impact the payment plan had on his credit file. He wanted 
Capital One to remove the negative markers from his credit file. 
Capital One didnt uphold the complaint. It said it could have been clearer about the impact 
the arrangement would have had on Mr Ts credit file. But it had given Mr T information in 
the written correspondence it sent afterwards. 
Mr T then complained to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. Mr T did not agree with that view. He said he had not received any written 
correspondence from Capital One and so he was unaware of the impact an arrangement to 
pay would have on his credit file. 
As Mr T did not accept our investigators view, the matter has been passed to me to make a  
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld his complaint. 
Ill explain why below. 
Capital One should report an accurate record of Mr Ts financial history to the credit 
reference agencies. Ive seen a copy of the information Capital One reported. From the 
information Ive seen, it looks as though it reported that Mr T was in an arrangement to pay 
from January 2021 up to February 2021. The account was reported as ok in March and 
April 2021 with no missed payments and no arrangement to pay. From May 2021, the 
account shows as being in an arrangement to pay and payments were showing as one 
month late in May, June, July and October 2021. 
Im satisfied the information showing an arrangement to pay is accurately recorded. I can 
see Mr T first entered such an arrangement in January 2021 and that this arrangement 
ended in March 2021. A further arrangement to pay was then set up in May 2021, which is 
accurately reflected in the reported information. 
Payments are showing as being one month late in May, June, July and October 2021. 
Looking at the statement data provided by Capital One, it appears Mr T was late in making a 
repayment, which would have been due by the end of April 2021 or early May 2021. 
I can see in his telephone call to Capital One on 3 May 2021 that he acknowledged he had 
been late with that repayment. It seems to me that the repayment missed at that stage is the 
reason that the account was showing as being one month in arrears. I dont think the 
arrangement to pay itself was the reason the account was shown as having arrears. Rather, 
it was because Mr T did not make a payment in respect of the statement dated 6 April 2021. 
And the resulting payments he made were insufficient to clear the arrears until later that 
year. 
It is not entirely clear to me why no arrears were reported in August or September 2021.  I 
say this because a notice of sum in arrears was sent to Mr T in October 2021 showing that 
there were arrears in August and September 2021. 
With all of this in mind, I cant tell Capital One to remove the note that Mr T was in an 
arrangement to pay when he was. And Im satisfied that the information as to late payments 
in May, June, July and October is also recorded accurately. 
Mr T complained that he wasnt informed in May 2021 about the impact the arrangement to 
pay would have on his credit file. 
Ive carefully listened to that call. I accept that Capital One didnt specifically tell Mr T that the 
payment plan would show as an arrangement to pay on his credit file. But it did say that this 
was the same solution as hed had beforehand. I can see that Mr T was also sent two letters 
from Capital One  one dated 21 January 2021 and another dated 4 May 2021 which both 
state: 
We'll update your credit file to show that you're on a payment plan. This can be 
helpful as it shows other lenders that you're making an effort to repay. The number of 
monthly minimum payments you've missed will also appear on your credit file.
I think the written correspondence sent to Mr T sets out what the impact on his credit file 
would have been. I understand Mr T told our investigator that he did not receive the letter 
dated 4 May 2021. However, I can see that both letters were correctly addressed by Capital 
One. I think its most likely that at least one of those letters was received by Mr T and so he 
would have reasonably known that the arrangement to pay would show on his credit file. 
I note from the telephone call that Mr T did ask Capital One about the missed payment. 
Although the late payment fee was refunded, Capital One did not tell Mr T that the missed 
payment would show on his credit file. 
In light of Mr Ts repeated concern about his credit file, I think it would have been helpful for 
Capital One to have told him that the missed repayment would be recorded. However, by the 
time hed spoken to Capital One about this, the payment had already been missed and was already late. So I dont think a better explanation to Mr T would have made a difference to 
what was recorded on his credit file.
Putting all of this together then, I can see how Capital One could have explained things 
better to Mr T. But the information it reported to the credit reference agencies was broadly 
accurate. From the information Capital One had already provided, I think he would have 
reasonably known the payment plan would show as an arrangement to pay on his credit file. 
And by the time Mr T spoke to Capital One about the missed payment, it was already late.
With all of these things in mind, I dont need to tell Capital One to take any further action in 
respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman