DRN-2499201
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) when he called it regarding his premium bond holding in late September 2020.
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, including what was 
discussed during the telephone call of late September 2020. So, Ill only provide an overview 
as to what happened here.
Mr H telephoned NS&I in late September 2020 to register with it his bank details for the 
payment, going forward, of any premium bond winnings.
At the end of this call NS&I registered, on behalf of Mr H, a complaint. Mr H complained:
that he had to wait in the region of half an hour before his call was connected
his call had been handled poorly
NS&I does not confirm the setting up of bank details, for the payment of premium 
bond winnings, by text message
NS&I was unable to answer some of his questions and/or gave incorrect answers to 
some of his questions
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that the 
service Mr H received during the call of late September 2020 was poor and for this NS&I 
should pay him £35 over and above the £40 it had paid him in November 2020.
Both parties responded to say they didnt agree with the investigators view. And because of 
this disagreement the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
First, I will turn to what I think is the crux of Mr Hs complaint and which the investigator 
concentrated on in her view, this being the handling by NS&I of his call to it in late 
September 2020.
Like the parties and the investigator, Ive listened to the call of late September 2020 and Im 
satisfied it could have been handled better. Im also satisfied that as a result of how this call 
was handled Mr H was caused both distress and inconvenience for which he should be 
compensated.
I understand that NS&I feels that having paid £40 it has done enough to appropriately 
compensate Mr H. I also accept that Mr H feels that £75 compensation  in total  is 
insufficient.
Now I appreciate that both parties may remain unhappy but having considered very carefully 
what a fair compensation sum might look like here, and having had regard to Mr Hs 
personal circumstances, I find it both fair and reasonable that NS&I do indeed pay Mr H a 
further £35.
Turning to the other complaint points raised by Mr H I would comment as follows.
I appreciate Mr H would have liked a confirmation text that he had set up bank details for the 
payment, in the future, of any premium bond winnings. But its my view that the sending of 
such texts, or not, is a commercial decision for NS&I and a decision that it would be neither 
fair nor reasonable for me to interfere with. Im also conscious that since Mr H complained 
NS&I has confirmed other ways in which Mr H could have, and still can, get confirmation of 
the payment method selected for the payment of any premium bond winnings. Therefore, I 
make no award in this respect.
I accept that during the call of late September 2020 Mr H didnt receive answers to one or 
more questions asked and/or received incorrect answers to one or more questions asked. 
But given that answers to Mr Hs questions have, in my view, now been provided by NS&I 
and that I think its unreasonable to expect a business to be able to answer every question of 
it immediately during a phone call, I make no award in this respect.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration in having to wait in the region of half an hour for his call 
of late September 2020 to be connected. But given the call volumes that NS&I says it was 
receiving at this time, and the effect the pandemic had on most, if not all, businesses ability 
to staff phone lines Im not persuaded it would be appropriate to make any award in this 
respect.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Savings and Investments must pay Mr H a further £35 in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman