DRN-2774324
The complaint
Mr S complains about the success fee Claim Easy Ltd charged him after he received a 
settlement for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) from a lender.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr S instructed Claim Easy to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI against a 
lender on his behalf. In September 2020, the lender offered Mr S a settlement and Claim 
Easy invoiced him for its fee.
Mr S complained to Claim Easy about the fee. He said the last communication hed had from 
Claim Easy was that the lender couldnt find evidence of his account. Mr S said he pursued 
his PPI claims directly with the lender. He didnt think Claim Easys fee was justified as he 
didnt feel it had carried out the work for him.
Claim Easy said it had sent a subject access request to the lender in April 2019. After the 
lender said it was unable to locate an account with the information provided, Claim Easy had 
asked Mr S for further information and had sent this on to the lender straight away. It said  
Mr S had agreed to pay its fee when he signed up to Claim Easys services and this was on 
a no win, no fee basis.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think his complaint should be upheld. He said he couldnt see any evidence that Claim Easy 
had told Mr S it wouldnt be acting for him. Claim Easy had raised Mr Ss claim for him after 
hed provided account numbers. The terms Mr S agreed to say the fees would be based on 
whether the PPI claim was successful rather than the amount of work Claim Easy did.
 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He said the final decision from the lender to 
Claim Easy in 2019 was that no evidence was provided for an account with PPI and the case 
was closed. Mr S said Claim Easy wasnt willing to pursue it any further and told him to 
submit a subject access request to the lender as it couldnt do so on his behalf. He also 
commented that Claim Easy no longer had permission to act on his behalf in 2020 as the 
letter of authority had expired. So, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
I can see that Mr S signed letters of authority in April and May 2019, where he gave authority 
for Claim Easy to pursue his PPI claims against the lender. He also agreed to Claim Easys 
terms and conditions including paying its fee of 20% plus VAT (at the prevailing rate which 
calculates at 24%) of the redress which we obtain for you as a result of a successful claim.
The terms and conditions gave Mr S the right to cancel the agreement within 14 days of 
Claim Easy receiving it. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr S cancelled the agreement 
within this time frame. 
The terms and conditions also set out circumstances where Claim Easy could cancel the 
agreement after 14 days notice in writing. I havent seen any evidence that Claim Easy 
cancelled the agreement with Mr S either. 
Claim Easy has provided copies of correspondence between it and the lender. This includes 
a PPI questionnaire with Mr Ss details which it sent to the lender in August 2019. There is 
also a covering letter from the lender to Claim Easy dated September 2020 which says the 
final response to Mr Ss complaint is enclosed. In the final response the lender offers an 
amount to settle Mr Ss PPI complaint.
 
Im satisfied from this correspondence that Claim Easy progressed Mr Ss complaint on his 
behalf. It also shows that the lender recognised Claim Easy as Mr Ss representative.
 
Claim Easy sent Mr Ss PPI questionnaire (including his account number) to the lender 
shortly before the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) deadline for PPI claims in August 
2019. The deadline resulted in many lenders receiving a huge volume of complaints. The 
FCA asked claims management companies to consider the very high volumes and 
operational challenges lenders faced and allow them reasonable time to give a final 
response.
I appreciate that Mr S believes he only received the settlement from the lender after 
contacting them and providing further information directly. But I havent seen anything to 
show me that Claim Easy didnt progress his claim appropriately.
Mr S says Claim Easy told him to submit a subject access request to the lender as it could 
not do so on his behalf. But the email hes provided to support this is dated 21 September 
2020, which is after he received the settlement offer from the lender. So, this doesnt appear 
to relate to the account Claim Easy has charged the success fee for. 
Mr S has also commented that Claim Easy didnt have a current letter of authority to act on 
his behalf in 2020. But Claim Easy submitted Mr Ss complaint in 2019, which was within the 
six month timeframe Mr S has referred to. Mr S has sent us copies of letters dated March 
and April 2021 where Claim Easy asks him to complete another letter of authority. But Claim 
Easy says this is for a different claim with the same lender. Given that these letters are dated 
after the settlement offer and refer to a claim thats being investigated, I think what Claim 
Easys explanation is likely to be right. So, Mr Ss comments about the letters of authority 
havent made a difference to the conclusion Ive reached.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr S. But he agreed to Claim Easys fee on 
a No Win, No Fee basis. So, the fee didnt need to reflect the amount of work or time Claim 
Easy spent on his case. I think Claim Easy made Mr S aware of this when he agreed to use 
its services. It also let Mr S know that he had a 14 day cooling off period in which to cancel 
the agreement. So, I think its fair for Claim Easy to charge Mr S its success fee.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman