DRN-3599815
The complaint
Miss M complains about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) dealt with an 
account default.
What happened
Miss M says NatWest registered a default on her credit file in 2017 which she found out 
about in 2019. She says NatWest agreed to remove the default, but she found out in 2021 
when attempting to re-mortgage that the default was still on her credit file. Miss M says as a 
result she was offered a new mortgage at a higher interest rate and also lost a credit card 
account with a different business. She says she will have to pay about £900 extra interest as 
a result of what took place and would like appropriate compensation for the distress she was 
caused.
NatWest says Miss Ms account defaulted in 2017 and it wrote to her about the outstanding 
balance. It says it made a mistake in 2019 by telling Miss M the account should have 
defaulted in 2014. NatWest has offered £100 compensation for the mistakes and says it will 
remove the default.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought that NatWest ought to have registered the default in 2014 and that it wasnt fair to 
reapply it after saying it would remove it in 2019. The investigator thought it impossible to 
say that the default was the cause of the interest rate difference or the credit card account 
issue as lenders do not provide reasons for such decisions. The investigator recommended 
NatWest should pay a total of £300 compensation.
NatWest has agreed with that view.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and says its unfair that a business doesnt explain its 
lending decisions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint but agree with 
the investigators compensation recommendation. I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed 
by my decision.
The only real issue for me to consider is the level of compensation. It is accepted by 
NatWest that whilst it was entitled to register a default, it should be removed in the light of 
what took place. And I can see that NatWest has made a decision in respect of the balance 
owed by Miss M.
I have no doubt Miss M was caused frustration and inconvenience in dealing with an issue 
that NatWest said was sorted out in 2019. I have no doubt Miss M was caused distress and 
concern in finding out the default was still on her credit file despite being told it would be 
removed in 2019. 
Im satisfied in those circumstances that NatWest should pay compensation for what took 
place. I find that the investigators recommendation of £300 compensation is fair and 
reasonable and in line with the type and amount of awards we make for this type of issue. I 
think that award reflects the impact of what took place had on Miss M. The key issue is 
about the mortgage interest rate Miss M was offered. I appreciate that Miss M was initially 
offered a more favourable interest rate, but I think such an offer was subject to a full 
application. And I cant be sure that the interest rate difference was due to the default issue.
I appreciate Miss M says that lenders should provide full reasons for lending decisions to 
allow such evidence to be used in complaints such as this. But we are not the regulator of 
credit or mortgage providers and so I cant fairly order that such information be provided. I 
share Miss Ms frustration but make clear that lenders and credit providers use a variety of 
sources of information to assess for example offered interest rates or in making lending 
decisions. I cant be sure that the default was the direct and or only cause of what I think was 
a relatively small interest rate difference. And I cant be sure the default led to the credit card 
issue.
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest has acted fairly by removing the default and think it 
should fairly pay a total of £300 compensation. But I cant fairly order it pay for the interest 
rate difference cost for the reasons I have explained.
Putting things right
NatWest should pay Miss M £300 compensation in total. It is not clear if the £100 
compensation previously offered has been paid, if it has then it should be deducted from the 
award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay Miss M £300 compensation in total. Miss Ms acceptance of this decision would 
be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman