DRN-3970107
The complaint
N, a company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC withdrew its overdraft facilities and asked it 
to make alternative banking arrangements even though its financial position was improving.
N is represented in this complaint by one of its directors, Mr K.
What happened
Lloyds wrote to N in May 2022, following a discussion with N, to say that it remained 
concerned about Ns income generation, borrowing levels and ongoing viability. It said that 
notwithstanding the steps that N had taken, it was concerned that N wouldnt be able to 
generate enough income to service all its commitments. It said it would renew Ns overdraft 
facility for six months, but would not renew it beyond that. It suggested that N use the six 
months to look for an alternative finance provider for its borrowing. Meanwhile, it asked N to 
keep its accounts within the agreed overdraft limits and make its loan repayments on time.
Following further discussions, Lloyds wrote to N again the following month. It acknowledged 
that some of Ns borrowing was relatively short-term, but it said that in light of the difficult 
trading conditions during and after the covid pandemic, it found it hard to see how N would 
be able to afford its existing debt repayments from trading profits or cash on an ongoing 
basis. It said it had needed to return multiple items due to lack of funds on Ns accounts, and 
it reiterated its decision not to extend Ns overdraft beyond November 2022. It recommended 
that N look into ways of refinancing its borrowing into a more affordable structure.
In October 2022, a couple of weeks before Ns overdraft facility was due to be withdrawn, 
Lloyds agreed to extend it for a further three months to allow N more time to consider its 
options with the help of professional advisers. But Lloyds said its concerns remained, and 
that unless N could clearly show that it could meet its monthly repayments in the short term, 
it would be unlikely to extend Ns facilities beyond February 2023. 
Mr K says Lloyds approach changed when a new relationship manager took over Ns 
accounts at the end of 2021. He says that previously Lloyds had been willing to pay salaries 
at the end of the month and then honour items presented during the following week, as long 
as the balance fell back within the agreed overdraft limit by the end of that week. But he says 
that following the change of relationship manager, Lloyds started returning items it would 
previously have paid, with no warning. 
Mr K says the fact that Ns statements showed returned items made the task of refinancing 
its borrowing more difficult. He says that if Lloyds had warned N about the change in 
approach, it might have been able to raise enough capital to keep it within the limit and avoid 
returned items.
Mr K is dissatisfied that Lloyds decided to stop its support for N even though N had improved 
its finances over the previous few months. He says professional advisers produced 
projections which support Ns view that its difficulties are short-term, and that its underlying 
business is sound, and worthy of Lloyds continuing support.
Lloyds says its Business Support Unit (BSU) is designed to work with customers whose 
accounts appear to be experiencing long-term difficulties, to help them achieve a return to 
financial health. It says clients are typically with the BSU for two to five years. It says that by 
the end of 2022 Ns accounts had been managed by the BSU for around ten years, with the 
exception of a few months in 2016, and there was nothing further it could offer. 
Lloyds doesnt accept that it managed Ns accounts differently following the change of 
relationship manager. It says that both before and after the change, it paid some business-
critical direct debits even though they took the account over the overdraft facility, but 
returned other items. It says allowing essential payments to be made was a concession. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said Lloyds had supported N through financial difficulties for almost ten years 
and Ns position hadnt improved sufficiently. Lloyds had reviewed the position thoroughly 
and considered there was nothing more it could do. She said Lloyds was entitled to withdraw 
Ns overdraft facility at any time, and to make a commercial decision to end a customer 
relationship altogether.
Mr K, on Ns behalf, didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
N says it started banking with Lloyds in 2009. When N raised its complaint in late 2022, its 
accounts had been managed by Lloydss BSU for around 10 of its 13 years with the bank. N 
acknowledges that Lloyds had supported it to deal successfully with challenges, and to trade 
out of some very difficult positions. Mr K has mentioned that at the end of 2019 N was 
anticipating a return to mainstream banking. The covid pandemic inevitably affected 
business. 
Having reviewed Ns financial figures Lloyds was concerned that N wouldnt be able to 
service its debt from profits or cash. I acknowledge that Mr K disagrees, and considers that it 
was unreasonable of Lloyds to decide to discontinue its support for N even though its 
financial performance was improving. But Lloyds says Ns relationship manager was 
confident that Lloyds had exhausted the support it could offer to N. The head of the BSU had 
also reviewed Ns accounts and considered that ending Lloyds relationship with N was the 
right course of action.
Im satisfied that Lloyds had made a sustained and considerable effort to support N through 
hard times over many years. Ultimately, it was entitled to make a commercial decision to 
stop providing banking facilities to N. It gave N the required notice and then provided 
additional time for N to continue to work with professional advisers to try to find a way 
forward. Ive seen nothing to make me think that Lloyds acted unreasonably, or that it 
breached its own SME Charter or the Lending Standards Councils Standards of Banking 
Practice, as Mr K has suggested.
Mr K has commented that from early 2022, Lloyds began to return payments that it would 
previously have allowed, and that it gave no warning of this. He says that at the very least 
Lloyds ought to have explained its position to N and given it a chance to make 
representations.But Lloyds had asked N to keep its accounts within the agreed overdraft facility limits and 
make its loan repayments on time. Lloyds was under no obligation to honour payments when 
the account was overdrawn beyond the agreed limit. I can understand why N might have 
hoped that Lloyds would continue to allow such payments, but that doesnt mean that it 
acted wrongly in not doing so. Ive seen Ns current account statements for four months 
either side of the change in relationship. The account generally remained within the agreed 
overdraft facility in the months before the change. After the change it looks as if it exceeded 
the facility more often, and when it did so, Lloyds returned some payments. 
Im not persuaded from what Ive seen that there was a change in Lloyds approach to 
making those payments. But even if there was, I think it unlikely that a warning of the change 
would have resulted in N being able to prevent the payments from being returned. By April 
2022 N would have been aware that items risked being returned unpaid where the account 
exceeded the overdraft limit. But it didnt pay money in in time to prevent several direct 
debits being returned that month. And in any case, I consider that it would have been clear 
to any future lender that Ns account balance wasnt always within the agreed limit, whether 
or not items were returned unpaid as a result.
I dont underestimate how difficult Lloyds decision to end its relationship with N made things 
for N. Mr K has set out in some detail the history of Ns financial situation since it started 
banking with Lloyds. Hes explained the reasons why N has struggled financially. I have 
sympathy with Ns directors, and I know that my decision will come as a disappointment to 
them. But having thought carefully about everything that N and Lloyds have said, I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman