DRN-3644921
The complaint
Mr S has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) havent followed his 
communication preference not to receive post.  Nor did they explain their solution to stop 
post being sent would stop Mr S being able to access statements.
What happened
Mr S cant deal with physical items of post.  So he asked Nat West to send him everything 
they need to by email.  To make their computer system do this, Nat West put a back to 
branch marker on his account. 
Mr S found this marker stopped him being able to see statements with all the information 
hed get on a postal statement.  And, despite the marker being in place, he still got some 
post from Nat West.
Mr S complained about this to Nat West.  Nat West upheld the complaint.  They said theyd 
do their best to make sure all their communication with Mr S was by email.  But they couldnt 
guarantee this as theyre required by the regulator to send some things by post.
Nat West checked Mr Ss preferences and confirmed they were set to email.  But they asked 
Mr S to make sure all his account settings were set to paperless.
And Nat West said theyd left the back to branch marker on Mr Ss account.  They warned 
him this would stop him accessing statements online.  But they said theyd order statements 
for Mr S if he asked them to.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Nat Wests response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator looked into it and concluded Nat West should pay Mr S £100 compensation for 
what had happened.  Although she noted what Nat West had done to resolve the complaint, 
she said this had happened before  and Mr S had complained.  She was satisfied having to 
complain again caused Mr S further distress and inconvenience.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and said shed not taken account of the fact 
hed not been able to access statements for about two years.  Ive now been asked to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
But first I have to explain what I can  and cant  do.  I can decide whether I think Nat West 
dealt fairly with Mr S.  But I cant say Nat West should change their business processes.  
Ive listened to the conversation Mr S had with the Nat West complaints handler.  I was 
pleased to hear her promise to feed back to other departments about the difficulties Nat 
Wests systems had caused Mr S.  
But I cant decide that should lead to any changes.  So Im not going to make any more 
comments about that.   
I can see that Nat West have accepted they sent Mr S post, even though hed asked them 
not to.  And Ive listened to the call between Mr S and the complaints handler.  The 
complaints handler explained that Nat West couldnt stop every piece of post because their 
regulator requires them to send certain items in this form.   
I cant say Nat West should breach their regulatory obligations.  But the complaints handler 
did acknowledge the problems this caused Mr S and said shed ask for these items to be 
copied to him by email.  I think thats reasonable.
In respect of the statements, the complaints handler confirmed Mr S couldnt access full 
statements because of the back to branch marker on his account.  She said this had been 
put on the account to stop post being sent.  But she agreed this caused a problem for Mr S, 
which hadnt been anticipated.
The handler told Mr S the problem would continue unless the branch marker was removed.  
Mr S chose to leave it in place.  The complaints handler confirmed Mr S could contact Nat 
West to get statements if he needed them.  Again, I think thats reasonable.
Putting things right
Our investigator thought Nat West should pay Mr S compensation for what had happened, 
because hed had similar issues before and their repetition caused him further distress and 
inconvenience.  I agree.
Our investigator said £100 was a reasonable amount of compensation.  Mr S told us he 
disagreed and thought an amount in excess of £1,000 was appropriate.
Ive thought about this.  But I cant agree with Mr S.  Hes based what hes said on what a 
court might award.  But this service isnt a court.  And we dont make awards on the same 
basis.
I have to consider the impact Nat Wests error had on Mr S.  Nothing Ive seen persuades 
me it was significant.  The complaint about receiving post relates to only one letter.   
And, although, Mr S says he couldnt access full statements electronically for two years, Ive 
seen nothing to show me he made Nat West aware this was an issue before he complained 
in mid-2022.  So, until then, they didnt know there was anything to try and put right.
When Nat West did become aware of the problem, they provided feedback to their 
colleagues to look at ways of resolving it.  They gave Mr S the option of removing the 
marker, which would allow him to access statements himself.  And, when he opted not to do 
that, Nat West said Mr S could request statements if he needed them.
So, again, Im satisfied that, while Mr S couldnt access information in the way he wanted to, 
Nat West took prompt steps to minimise the inconvenience for him.  And that means I think 
the distress and inconvenience they caused Mr S is reasonably compensated by a payment 
of £100.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint and directing National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
theyve caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman