DRN-1461521
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the service they received when they applied to 
Coventry Building Society for a new preferential mortgage rate and a further advance.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S said they didnt know the further advance and the rate change applications 
were linked. But that was done to protect Mr and Mrs S. By linking them it meant that if the 
further advance application was declined, Mr and Mrs S hadnt just been tied in to a new 
preferential rate product with Coventry. By dealing with them together it would have given 
Mr and Mrs S the option to remortgage to a new lender if Coventry couldnt lend them the 
extra money they wanted. So, I cant blame Coventry for linking the applications because it 
was done to protect Mr and Mrs S interests.
When it became clear the further advance application wouldnt be ready in time Coventry 
de-linked the applications so the new preferential rate could be put in force on 1 July to 
prevent Mr and Mrs S going onto the higher reversionary Privilege Rate.
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs S didnt contact Coventry sooner than 3 June bearing in 
mind they were going to be on holiday for a week. Despite that Coventry gave them an 
option to email all the documents over so things could be progressed more quickly than 
normal. Coventry has admitted it should have been clear about the format it needed the 
documents in, and that there was confusion over the documents it had received and what 
was either missing or needed to be re-sent. So I dont need to make a finding on those 
points as its not in dispute Coventry made mistakes.
Mr and Mrs S commented on the fact four letters arrived whilst they were on holiday, and 
that two of them were contradictory, with Mrs S opening the letter saying they were going to 
move to the Privilege Rate first which caused them emotional distress. But a quick glance at 
the dates of the letters and the contents would have reassured Mr and Mrs S that the rate 
change was going to take place on 1 July and they wouldnt be moving to the Privilege Rate. 
I say this because the first letter (saying they were going to move to the Privilege Rate) was 
dated 16 June and states If you have recently arranged to move to a different mortgage 
product, please disregard this letter as it doesnt refer to your new mortgage details. Please 
rest assured that you will receive a separate confirmation of your new product and monthly 
payment shortly.
This was then followed by a letter dated 18 June which said Thank you for your recent 
request to transfer your mortgage to another product. We can confirm that your transfer will 
be carried out as follows and it then shows the mortgage will move to the new rate from 
1 July.
It's not in dispute that Coventry got some things wrong. It's admitted that and offered £250 
compensation for it. Those include, but arent restricted to, not giving Mr and Mrs S enough 
information about how to submit the documents and the amount of calls Mr and Mrs S 
needed to make. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a 
mistake, mistakes do happen. Mr and Mrs S have said the compensation doesnt take into 
account that they had to constantly chase Coventry, take time off work and the emotional 
distress that was caused to them. They also said they dont think Coventry will learn from it.
Were not the regulator; weve no power to fine or punish businesses, and our awards arent
punitive. Its not within my remit to tell Coventry what it should do to prevent anything similar 
happening again, or to make an award to make Coventry learn from this. We look at each 
complaint individually and what may - or may not - happen in the future to other customers 
isnt something I can consider here when deciding Mr and Mrs S complaint about what 
happened to them. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened. 
Coventry has apologised and offered £250 compensation and having considered everything 
Im satisfied thats a fair outcome.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider Coventry Building Society made a fair 
offer. I leave it to Mr and Mrs D to decide if  on reflection  they now wish to accept that 
offer directly with the business. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject 
my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman