DRN-2121387
The complaint
Mr G complains that an appointed representative of Sesame Limited has received 
commission relating to pension and life assurance policies without providing any service to 
him. He says that the firm has failed to provide him with any advice or proactive 
management of his investments.
What happened
Mr G was provided with advice relating to his occupational pension in 1990, resulting in him 
transferring those pension savings to a personal pension scheme. I understand that Mr Gs 
complaint that this advice was inappropriate has been considered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and he has received compensation from that scheme.
In 2003 Mr Gs original advisor wrote to him to explain that he had decided to retire. And as 
a result he had agreed to transfer his ongoing business and relationships to a new firm of 
advisors. That firm was an appointed representative of Sesame. So although Mr G has had 
no direct contact with Sesame, it is that firm that is responsible for the actions of its 
appointed representative, and therefore is responsible for this complaint. For ease, although 
Mr G had no direct contact with Sesame, I will refer to that firm as being the responsible 
business throughout this decision.
Mr Gs original advisor was not an appointed representative of Sesame when he gave the 
original recommendation in 1990, or when he retired in 2003. However the firm that took 
over the clients in 2003 was an appointed representative. So it is at that point that the 
matters under dispute form part of the complaint that I can consider here. I can only consider 
what has happened since the transfer in 2003.
As a result of the transfer of business in 2003 Sesame started to receive the commission 
payable by Mr Gs product provider in respect of his pension savings. But Mr G says he has 
had no contact with Sesame following the transfer and so he has received no value for the 
commission that has been paid.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He concluded that since 
the commission hadnt been paid by deductions from Mr Gs investments he hadnt lost out 
as a result of the commission continuing to be paid. And he didnt think Sesame had any 
obligation to get in touch with Mr G and provide him with advice once it took over the 
servicing rights in 2003. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by Sesame. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
In 2012 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) completed a review of what was commonly 
known as trail commission. The was commission commonly paid to advisors for introducing 
new business to a pension provider. The customer wouldnt necessarily be told that the 
provider had agreed to pay the introducer some commission. Commission would generally 
be paid for as long as the investment continued to exist. The FCA has issued guidance on its 
website setting how to eliminate or reduce trail commission charges for policies set up after 
2012.
We have received a number of complaints about trail commission. The changes made 
following the FCAs review highlight the very things Mr G is concerned about here  the lack 
of transparency and clear agreement to the payment of commission. Prior to 2012, it was the 
case that what Mr G describes as unfair was common practice. The changes introduced by 
the FCA, necessitated a change in behaviour going forward, but had no retrospective effect.
As I have said earlier, I cannot deal in this decision with what happened before Mr Gs 
servicing agreement was transferred to Sesame in 2003. So I can make no findings about 
whether or not the original advisor gave Mr G sufficient information about the commission 
that would be paid for setting up his pension plans. But the introduction of Mr G to the 
pension provider entitled the advisor to commission payments for the whole of the time Mr G 
held the pension plans. And following his decision to retire, the advisor was entitled to 
transfer that entitlement to another firm.
At this stage I think it is important to consider the grounds on which I should decide a 
complaint should be upheld. To uphold a complaint I would normally need to find that a 
business has done something wrong, and that error has caused a consumer to lose out.
Mr Gs pension provider has confirmed to us that the commission it pays is funded by the 
provider directly. No specific deduction is made from Mr Gs pension savings to pay the 
commission. But of course that isnt the whole picture. Mr G does pay the provider a 
management charge, and it is part of that charge that would be used by the provider to fund 
the commission payments. So in effect Mr G is paying the commission, albeit indirectly.
But, the pension provider has also confirmed that it is possible for Mr Gs pension plans to 
run without any servicing advisor. And if that were the case the provider would not make any 
commission payments. But importantly that saving wouldnt be passed onto Mr G. His 
charges would have remained identical whether or not the commission was being paid to 
Sesame. So he hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result of Sesame being paid the 
commission since 2003.
Mr G has been very clear that he didnt have any relationship with Sesame following his 
advisors retirement in 2003. And so from that I must conclude that Sesame hadnt agreed to 
provide him with any advice or ongoing monitoring of his pension savings. I dont think any 
responsibility to do that was conferred by the receipt of the ongoing commission payments 
from the pension provider. I would have expected Mr G to be asked to pay either a one-off or 
ongoing charge to Sesame for any advice it agreed to provide to him.
I understand Mr Gs concerns that Sesame was in receipt of commission payments when it 
was providing no service to him. And it is clear that the FCA shared those concerns when it provided some new regulations for policies set up after 2012. But I cant say that Sesame 
has done anything wrong in accepting those payments  if I were to do so I would be 
applying standards that didnt apply at the time. And I dont think there was any requirement 
for Sesame to proactively manage Mr Gs investments without having been engaged by 
Mr G to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Sesame Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman