DRN-4039405
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the sale of a bond by Gallium Fund Solutions Limited. She says she 
was mis-sold the investment and misled that it was protected if the investment failed. This 
has resulted in her losing her money.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs L invested £20,000 in B&G Plc 3 Year Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond. The sale of 
this bond was dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the 
bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds, through a website it 
operated. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential 
investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
("Gallium"). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mrs Ls investment in the bond and experience 
Mrs L became aware of the investments through an an advert she saw online. 
She was looking for a savings product that could give her better returns than 
cash deposits to supplement her retirement income.
Mrs L said she approached BG Ltd because of the high interest rates they 
were promoting. She said she invested part of her savings with BG Ltd and 
was led to believe the investments were secure and protected by the 
government through the FSCS.  
Of her prior investment experience, Mrs L had invested in two separate peer to 
peer loans. All other previous investments were from savings held in deposit 
accounts with banks earning interest. 
Mrs L recalls speaking to BG Limted when applying. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender. Following action by the FCA, the payday lender went into administration in March 
2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs L has not 
had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
I have not seen any contemporaneous evidence relating to Mrs Ls application to invest 
in the bond, but she recalls speaking to a relationship manager at BG Ltd, and says 
she was advised that it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
protected by the FSCS in the event of B&G Plc being unable to repay the investment.
She also says that during the phone calls, she was guided by the relationship manager 
to complete the application and told to categorise herself as a "self-certified 
sophisticated investor'.
We asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd held. We were provided with copies 
of call recordings from after the investment in the bond was made. But we havent been 
provided any calls in relation to when Mrs L was actually making an application to 
invest in the bond subject to this complaint. 
I have been provided with a copy of the records BG Ltd held on its system, but this doesnt 
confirm the full application history for the bond. The system records show that Mrs L was 
tagged as a self-certified sophisticated investor on 2 October 2017, with the bond showing 
an issue date as 12 October 2017.
Gallium has explained the application investors were only able to apply online - although it 
was possible for prospective investors to speak to individuals from BG Ltd on the
phone to answer questions. And through the online application process, steps were taken to 
ensure that the applicants who were able to access the investment opportunity were 
appropriate investors in that they had sufficient understanding, experience, and financial 
means to put their money at risk.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Gallium says Mrs L would have gone through. This consisted of two 
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on 
how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where the system records indicate Mrs L was categorised as a self-certified 
sophisticated investor investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Gallium's response to Mrs L's complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs L's complaint. It said Mrs L had been given sufficient information
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Mrs L's
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also
considered what Gallium described as its "position statement", which sets out general
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigator's view
One of our investigators considered Mrs L's complaint and concluded it should be upheld.
She said, in summary:
Mrs L didnt meet the criteria of a "self-certified sophisticated investor'. Shed seen 
no evidence to show BG Ltd took any steps to ascertain Mrs L met the criteria as per 
the regulatory requirement. 
The assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for Mrs L was misleading and 
didn't gather sufficient information to comply with the FCA's rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Gallium's behalf, didn't comply with its regulatory obligations. Had 
it done so, Mrs L wouldn't have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded 
that it shouldn't allow her to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively and 
individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs L 
for the loss she has suffered.
Gallium's response to the viewGallium did not accept the investigator's view. It said, in summary:
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mrs L's complaint.
Mrs L confirmed that she met the requirements of a self-certified sophisticated 
investor, so it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs L made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it and did 
not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So, she would have proceeded with the investments regardless.
I issued a Provisional Decision in February 2023. This is what I said:
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCA's Handbook "are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system" (PRIN
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers' interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are
relevant here.
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1 R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant
here.
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I
have considered the relevant rules in full.
I note Gallium has referred to the FCA's policy statement PS14/4, and the question and
answer sessions with the FCA's Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have taken 
account of these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
overall conclusion as the investigator. The investigator viewed the complaint on the basis 
that Mrs L applied for the bond online following the application process that was detailed by 
Gallium in the submissions it made to this service. As previously mentioned, there is limited 
evidence to indicate how the bond was applied for. 
Further, the investigator found Mrs L didnt meet the criteria of the self-certified 
sophisticated investor statement outlined in COBS4.12.8. Mrs L only had to meet one of the 
specified criterions. From what shes told us, it seems she has met COBS4.12.8 2(b) I have 
made more than one investment in an unlisted company in the two years prior as more 
likely than not, her previous investments in peer to peer loans were in unlisted companies. 
So, I think BG Ltd undertook the classification correctly. However, the issue I find is BG Ltd 
was also required to take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that Mrs L had the requisite experience, knowledge or expertise to understand the risks of the bond in line with COBS 
4.12.11. 
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. Had the process been consistent with what the rules required  
had Mrs L been asked for appropriate information about her knowledge and experience  
the only reasonable conclusion BG Ltd could have reached, having assessed this, was that 
Mrs L did not have the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks 
involved with the bond.
Mrs L had limited investment experience and was predominantly familiar with standard 
savings and ISA accounts  I have seen no evidence to show he had anything other than a 
basic knowledge of investments. Though Gallium may argue Mrs Ls peer to peer 
investments had given her some experience, I have not seen that this was something 
considered at the time. In any event, as I said above, having had limited investment 
experiences prior to investing in the bond subject to the complaint cannot reasonably be 
considered meaningful experience, insofar as it would enable Mrs L to understand the risks 
involved. So, it would not be sufficient to conclude this bond was appropriate for her on that 
basis. 
In the circumstances Mrs L would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, 
BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to Mrs L. So, it follows that I 
havent found that BG Ltd met its obligations here.
Mrs L responded to say she accepted the provisional decision.
I didnt receive any further evidence or arguments from Gallium by the deadline set for
responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Gallium has not made more comments or arguments for me to consider and Mrs L
accepted the conclusions, Ive got no reason to change the outcome I set out in my 
provisional decision.
To confirm, for the reasons described in my provisional decision, I find Mrs L would either 
not have proceeded to make the investments or would not have been able to proceed, had
Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so, I am satisfied 
it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs L for her loss and I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs L
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bonds. I 
take the view that Mrs L would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair
and reasonable given Mrs L's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs L fairly, Gallium must: Compare the performance of Mrs L's investments with that of the benchmark shown
below.
 Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
 Pay to Mrs L £250 for the distress caused by the loss of her investments. It is clear 
the loss came as a shock to Mrs L, and has caused her upset.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Three year 
fixed monthly 
income bond Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
As the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market), the
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs L agrees to Gallium taking
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership,
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs L that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular
payments, to keep calculations simpler, I'll accept if Gallium totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested,
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mrs L wanted to achieve a reasonable return, and I do not think she wanted to take
significant risk.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs L's
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs L would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs L in a clear, simple
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman