DRN-3964525
The complaint
Mrs M complains she was given unsuitable advice by Milecross Financial Solutions Limited 
to transfer her personal pension and ISA (Individual Savings Account) to a new provider. Mrs 
M is unhappy with the performance of her fund after the switch. Shes also concerned that 
her retirement age wasnt correctly recorded. 
Milecross Financial Solutions Limited is an appointed representative of The Openwork 
Partnership (Openwork). For convenience Ive just referred below to Openwork.  
What happened
Although Ive read and considered everything, Im only going to set out some of the key 
events and exchanges. 
Mrs M met with Openworks adviser in July 2019. A fact find was completed. Openwork 
issued a suitability letter in August 2019 recommending that Mrs M consolidate a personal 
pension plan and an ISA onto one platform  the Embark Zurich platform  and invest in the 
Openwork Graphene Cautious C1 portfolio. Mrs Ms retirement age was noted as 67. The 
initial set up fee was £4,525.33 (3% of the fund value) with an ongoing service fee of 
£769.09 (0.5% of the fund value). Thered be an annual review meeting.  
In late September 2019 the funds from Mrs Ms ISA were transferred to the new platform. 
And in early October 2019 the proceeds of her personal pension were added. In total some 
£152,623 (before deduction of any fees) was invested. Mrs M continued to pay monthly 
contributions of £300 pm net into her pension and £250 pm into her ISA  increased to £500 
pm in August 2020. 
On 28 August 2020 Mrs M emailed Openworks adviser saying she intended to retire in 
2022. On advice from Openwork she made single pension contributions of £15,625 in 
January 2021 and £14,375 in January 2022.
Mrs M told Openwork shed be retiring on 7 March 2022. She wanted to bring forward her 
annual review meeting. Initially a date in June 2022 was agreed but Mrs M then received her 
half yearly statement and saw that the value had fallen and there was an meeting on 13 April 
2022. Exactly what was discussed isnt agreed. But Mrs M expressed concerns about fund 
performance and what action could be taken given shed retired. That included taking her tax 
free cash (TFC) from her pension and encashing some or all of her ISA and reinvesting in an 
investment bond Mrs M held jointly with her husband.
The adviser told Mrs M on 13 April 2022 that her overall fund value (pension and ISA) was 
£203,481. The following day he texted her to say the combined value was £200,487 and 
asked if she was happy for it to be switched into cash (temporarily). Mrs M confirmed she 
wanted to switch (pension and ISA) to cash. The switch was actioned but when the funds 
were encashed the proceeds were less  about £198,800. 
There were some exchanges with the adviser. In an email sent on 16 April 2022 Mrs M set 
out some concerns, including that, if she hadnt got in contact when she did, the value of her 
fund wouldve fallen further. She also said the adviser had always been aware that, at the 
latest, she wouldnt be working past her 60th birthday. So at most, when Openworks advice 
was given in September 2019, shed have just over four years before she retired or more 
likely 2 years and ten months. She now thought she shouldve left her pension where it was. 
The adviser replied saying it appeared Mrs M may want to make a formal complaint and 
asked her to confirm. She did and the adviser referred the matter to Openworks complaints 
department. 
The adviser said, about Mrs Ms request (made prior to her complaint) for her TFC to be paid 
and her ISA encashed, that Mrs M would be receiving an insistent client letter. He said that 
was because he couldnt recommend those withdrawals due to the tax advantages of the 
pension and ISA over the investment bond. As to the balance of Mrs Ms retirement fund, her 
options were to remain in cash or to switch back into the fund in which she was previously 
invested. The adviser sent Mrs M two letters on 20 April 2022 with enclosed Insistent Client 
acknowledgement forms for her to sign and return. 
Openwork issued a final response to the complaint on 13 June 2022 not upholding the 
complaint. In summary, Openwork maintained the advice given in 2019 was suitable and the 
service Mrs M had received had been appropriate. 
Amongst other things, Openwork said the suitability report had set out the charges including 
the ongoing advice fee which was less than Mrs M had been paying before. The lump sum 
payments Mrs M had made were covered by the ongoing advice fee. Mrs M was retiring in 
March 2022 and was concerned that her funds had dropped in value. There was a meeting 
on 13 April 2022 and the following day Mrs M instructed a switch to cash. She received 
insistent client letters to sign. The platform provider was given the instruction on 14 April 
2022 and the transaction (aside from a small element that couldnt be traded) was completed 
on 19 April 2022. Openwork said it had dealt with Mrs Ms request to switch to cash in a 
timely manner. Fund values couldnt be guaranteed and any decrease (or increase) before 
the funds were sold down by the platform provider was outside Openworks control. 
Openwork added that the adviser had looked at if Mrs Ms funds should be switched to 
something less volatile as she was going to retire but hed concluded thered be no added 
benefit as she was already invested cautiously.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied and asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. In summary his findings were:
There was nothing to suggest the advice to switch Mrs Ms personal pension and ISA 
was unsuitable. Mrs Ms overall charges were less than shed been paying. Her 
existing personal pension didnt have any guarantees and there were no penalties for 
transferring away. Mrs Ms attitude to risk (ATR) had been assessed and the 
recommended portfolio was in line with her cautious attitude to risk. She wanted 
ongoing advice and the charges for that were clearly set out. She had at least one 
face to face meeting a year.
It wasnt clear that Mrs M had said shed be retiring at 60. Shed changed her 
retirement date with her previous provider in 2013 to age 60 but the paperwork 
relating to the advice shows a retirement age of 67. In any event, any change to her 
retirement age was unlikely to have made much difference. If anything, lower risk 
investments may have been recommended which wouldve achieved even less 
growth.  
Mrs M didnt have a DFM (Discretionary Fund Manager) so changes to her 
investments could only be made on her instructions. Mrs Ms portfolio wouldnt be 
constantly monitored. The adviser would check things prior to the planned review meetings. Some volatility was to be expected and advisers may adopt a wait and 
see approach. 
Between September 2019 and January 2022 the fund value increased by 3.41%. 
Global events had affected the financial markets and that had continued. Openwork 
had recommended a portfolio which matched Mrs Ms ATR. Shed told Openwork in 
early 2020 that she might retire early but she didnt confirm she was retiring until 
March 2022. Until that was definite, fund changes probably wouldnt be considered.
That said, the adviser had considered that but decided against any changes. Mrs M 
shouldve been told that, which mightve eased her concerns about the service she 
was getting.
After the meeting in April 2022 Mrs M decided to switch her fund into cash. 
Openwork advised against but acted on Mrs Ms instructions. Unfortunately the 
amount that was actually transferred into cash was less than the figure Mrs M had 
been given but that wasnt Openworks fault. 
Mrs M didnt accept the investigators view. In summary, she said:
Openwork had confused her with the colleague whod recommended the adviser. 
One of her colleagues concerns was about paying for advice but not receiving it. But 
that wasnt Mrs Ms position. 
Shed made it very clear to the adviser that her retirement age was always going to 
be no later than her 60th birthday. She agreed she shouldve noticed that the report 
said age 67. But the adviser had all the information from the previous provider (which 
said her retirement age was 60) and shed continually told the adviser she intended 
to retire no later than then. 
It hadnt been her idea to switch to cash. The adviser had suggested it at the meeting 
in April 2022. Shed asked if that was possible and he said yes, why not. She hadnt 
signed off insistent client letters at the meeting.
Despite the adviser being aware of her plan to retire hed continued to recommend 
she made further contributions to the pension.
Her fund hadnt performed well and shed expressed concern on at least one 
occasion to the adviser. Hed assured her there should be no problem once the initial 
advice costs had been met. 
The switch to cash was executed in the afternoon of 14 April 2022. The adviser said 
on the evening of 13 April 2022 that the transfer would be made at the first 
opportunity the next morning and he called then to confirm the sum being transferred. 
The platform administrators service standards had nothing to do with the fact that the 
adviser informed her of the amount to be transferred and which was substantially 
less than what was eventually transferred. At no time did the adviser say it would be 
different. 
The emotional impact hadnt been taken into account. She and her husband had 
trusted the adviser and they felt hed let them down. 
The investigator considered Mrs Ms comments but he wasnt persuaded to change his view.  
He told Mrs M and Openwork that the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman. 
Mrs M made some further comments. Amongst other things, she said her only reason for 
contacting Openworks adviser was that shed lost her previous financial adviser. Other 
reasons given pertained to her work colleague. She reiterated that the adviser wouldve seen 
from the information he had from the previous provider that her retirement age was 60. If the 
adviser was suggesting that the idea to switch into cash came from Mrs M that wasnt true. 
Mrs M agreed the adviser shouldve warned there could be a difference in the value hed 
quoted and what shed actually receive. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to see that Mrs M has said shes somewhat disillusioned with our process and 
considers, where theres a lack of firm evidence and the issue turns on whats been said, the 
advisers side of things has been favoured. 
Where the evidence is incomplete inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), we 
reach our decisions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what we consider is likely to 
have happened, given the evidence thats available to us and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. Were impartial but the nature of our work is such that one party may be 
disappointed with the outcome. 
Ive considered first if Openworks advice in 2019 to transfer was suitable. Mrs M has said it 
wasnt the case that shed approached Openwork because shed been paying for advice she 
hadnt been getting. Mrs Ms previous adviser had retired and so she had to find a new 
adviser. A colleague recommended Openworks adviser. I can understand why Mrs M would 
be unhappy and why it might further undermine her confidence in Openwork if shed been 
confused her with that colleague. But, in terms of determining her complaint, I dont think 
much turns on any misunderstanding as to why Mrs M had engaged Openwork.  
Theres an issue about Mrs Ms intended retirement age. She says she made it very clear in 
her initial meeting with Openworks adviser that she didnt intend to work past age 60. And 
that was clearly shown on the existing providers documentation which Openworks adviser 
wouldve seen. I understand Mrs Ms point. Ive seen that the policy schedule for the existing 
policy clearly set out a selected pension age of 60 and the statements showed the same 
chosen retirement date. But I think the adviser wouldve relied more on the up to date 
information he gathered direct from Mrs M when she sought advice. Mrs Ms position 
couldve changed between 2013 and 2019 when she met with the adviser. 
Although Mrs M has stressed she repeatedly told the adviser that shed be retiring no later 
than age 60, thats not whats recorded in the fact find and, perhaps more importantly, the 
suitability letter. The latter records on the first page under the heading What you are trying 
to achieve that Mrs M had said she was planning to work until at least state retirement age 
current set at age 67 and that no changes in plans were foreseen until Mrs M was at the 
point of retirement. Theres a similar comment on page 6 of the report. And the attached 
illustration from the new provider shows a selected pension age of 67 and the corresponding 
2030 date on the first page and the same later on. 
Mrs M accepts it was remiss of her not to notice and point out the error. An investors age 
and investment time horizon are important considerations in giving advice. When the advice 
was given in 2019. Mrs M was approaching her 56th birthday. That meant there were some 
four years remaining if she wanted to retire at age 60. Although a cautious investment 
strategy is likely to have still been recommended, Id agree the shorter time frame might 
impact on whether the initial advice fees were likely to be recouped. And it seems Mrs M 
may have had other advice to that effect. 
But I cant say that Openworks adviser was wrong to proceed on the basis that Mrs Ms 
investment horizon was longer than four years and when Mrs M didnt correct his (mis) 
understanding that she wouldnt be retiring until age 67. I dont think that means Im 
favouring the advisers position. What Im saying is that the discrepancy in what Mrs M had 
said about when shed be retiring and what the adviser had noted was clear from the documentation and shouldve been pointed out. It wasnt so Ive considered if the advice was 
suitable on the basis it was given  that Mrs M wouldnt be retiring until age 67. 
I dont think the advice to switch Mrs Ms personal pension and her ISA was unsuitable. I 
share the reasons given by the investigator. There was no obvious reason why Mrs M 
shouldnt switch her pension  she wouldnt be giving up any guarantees and there were no 
exit penalties. Plus overall the charges for the new arrangement would be less. The 
recommended portfolio matched Mrs Ms cautious ATR. It seems her existing arrangements 
were invested in funds which were higher risk than her ATR and so some adjustment to her 
investments would appear to have been appropriate. Openwork has also made the point that 
Mrs Ms existing pension plan didnt permit drawdown so a move to a product which 
facilitated that wouldve been required at some point.
Ive considered if Mrs circumstances and/or objectives changed such that shouldve 
prompted a reconsideration of her investment strategy. In particular, Mrs M told the adviser 
in 2020 that shed be retiring early. And, in the annual meeting in September 2021, she said 
that might be in May 2022. It seems that Openworks adviser did consider whether the fund 
selection should be changed but concluded against, given that Mrs M was already invested 
cautiously. I agree it mightve been helpful if Openworks adviser had shared that with Mrs 
M. That mightve gone some way to reassuring her that the adviser was giving ongoing 
consideration to her changing circumstances and investments. 
Its clear Mrs M has been very disappointed with how her funds have performed. Ive seen 
that she raised some points about the impact of fees in January 2021. And, in her email sent 
on 7 February 2021, she queried whether tax relief had been included on her pension 
contributions as it seemed thered been little growth since the transfer and despite the further 
payments in. The adviser confirmed that tax relief had been included and thered been 
growth of £2,580. He said that wasnt what might be expected over a typical period of 17 
months but, after the initial fee had been covered, Covid had then hit which had resulted in a 
significant drop in the markets. The adviser said taking that into account he was happy the 
overall return was above average. 
Id tend to agree with what the adviser said. And, if the investment recommendation was 
suitable, I dont think Openwork can be held responsible for perceived poor performance. 
Investment and market conditions over the past few years have been difficult. Various global 
events, including the pandemic, have led to market uncertainty and unfavourable investment 
conditions. And gilts or bonds which are traditionally seen as suitable for low risk investors 
approaching retirement have fallen in value, in some cases very substantially. I understand 
that the cautious fund in which Mrs M invested held a high proportion of Government 
gilts/bonds and that was a major factor in the funds performance. 
Given the lack of growth I can understand why Mrs M might consider shed have been better 
off not making the further contributions, including the single premiums, and instead invested 
that money elsewhere. But generally advice to make affordable contributions to a pension 
(which attract tax relief) and an ISA is good advice even if, with hindsight, the money 
invested hasnt done as well as might have been expected. 
Ive also considered what happened in April 2022 when Mrs M instructed a switch into cash 
before withdrawing her tax free cash and encashing her ISA. Exactly what was discussed at 
the meeting on 13 April 2022 isnt agreed. Mrs M says she raised her disappointment with 
fund performance and it was the adviser who suggested the switch to cash to avoid any 
further falls in value. 
I dont think its going to be possible to ascertain exactly how the possibility of switching to 
cash arose and precisely what was said about it. But I think Mrs M wouldve known, if she 
did switch, that would, in effect, crystallise her losses although further falls in value would be avoided. Mrs M decided to go ahead with the switch and that was her decision, regardless of 
who suggested it. Again I dont think that means Ive favoured the adviser. Rather Ive 
recognised the difficulty of ascertaining exactly who said what and, because I dont think its 
critical to determine exactly how the suggestion arose, Ive instead concentrated on what 
isnt in dispute  that the possibility of a switch to cash was raised and Mrs M did go ahead 
with the switch. 
As to how the switch was processed, from what Ive seen, the adviser relayed Mrs Ms 
instruction promptly and it was given to the platform provider within a few hours. A switch 
isnt instantaneous. The existing portfolio holdings have to be sold down and converted to 
cash. That took a few days to complete. Openwork isnt responsible for the time taken by the 
platform provider or for any decreases in value between when the instruction was given and 
when the sales were completed. 
Mrs Ms point is that she got less than the figure the adviser had quoted. I havent seen that 
the adviser explicitly warned Mrs M that the final fund values werent guaranteed. But it 
seems the switch was undertaken during a period of market volatility. Mrs M knew her fund 
value had fallen from £203,481 to £200,487. Unfortunately between then and the 
investments being encashed the values fell further. That was obviously very disappointing 
for Mrs M. But I dont think it was Openworks fault and when there was nothing to suggest 
that fund values were guaranteed and not subject to change. 
It seems that taking TFC from the pension and reinvesting in the existing bond was also 
discussed at the meeting. Mrs M says the adviser suggested a portion of the ISA could also 
be invested in the bond. Mrs M recalls a brief discussion about income tax but the adviser 
didnt say there were adverse tax implications. Mrs M also says she mentioned encashing 
her pension with her previous employer to live on for a year while her pension fund 
recovered and which she says the adviser agreed was a good idea. She wasnt asked to 
sign insistent client forms at the meeting. So it seems Mrs M understood that the adviser 
largely agreed with what she was planning to do.  
Against that background, the advisers letters of 20 April 2022 came as a shock and caused 
Mrs M distress and frustration. I can understand that, if the letters didnt reflect what had 
been discussed at the meeting. But again I dont think its going to be possible to ascertain 
exactly what was said and in what context. It may be that the adviser, on reflection, thought 
further about what had been discussed and concluded he couldnt recommend that Mrs M 
did what had been suggested. Although I agree it wouldve been better if the adviser had 
explained that at the meeting, I think whats important is that the adviser considered things 
fully and took steps to set out what his recommendation was so that Mrs M could make an 
informed decision about what she wanted to do. 
I know Mrs M will be disappointed with my findings. I entirely accept what shes said about 
having relied on advice throughout. And, while I note what shes said about the emotional 
impact, I can only uphold her complaint if Im satisfied Openwork did something wrong (or 
failed to do something which it shouldve done). I havent found that to be the case here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman