DRN-3098280
The complaint
Mr E complains that Thompson Taraz Managers Limited (TTML) mismanaged, and 
provided misleading information about, an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) he invested 
in.
What happened
Mr E invested £100,000 in TTMLs EIS fund (the fund) in April 2017. TTML managed the 
fund until September 2018 when responsibility transferred to another company.
The fund was a discretionary investment management service offering tax benefits to 
investors. Information about the fund and the terms of the discretionary management service 
were set out in an Investment Memorandum (IM) document, which included an Investors 
Agreement (IA) setting out the terms and conditions for the fund.
The fund aimed to invest in EIS qualifying companies seeking to build and operate recycling 
and environmental facilities. Mr Es funds were invested across four companies but by 2021 
three had gone into liquidation and one had a negligible value. Facing the loss of almost the 
entire value of his investment, Mr E complained that:
TTML had mismanaged the fund. It appeared they were unaware of what was happening 
with the investments and left decisions solely to their appointed representative. 
Their claim that problems only occurred after they stopped managing the fund was 
untrue. 
TTML had refused to provide copies of the due diligence they carried out on investee 
companies. That caused him to question whether adequate due diligence had been 
conducted.
One of the investee companies took on significant debt even though the IM said the fund 
would only invest in companies with negligible borrowing, and this had exacerbated his 
losses.   
The IM was misleading in saying the investments were asset backed. 
There was an over reliance on a single heat provider which was used by multiple 
companies within the fund but went into liquidation. The failure of one company had 
resulted in the loss of approximately 85% of the value of his fund. 
One of the plants was fully constructed in the knowledge a third party plant hadnt been 
built. 
A disproportionate amount of his funds was invested in just two companies, despite the 
IM saying that no more than 35% of an investors funds would be put into any one 
company. 
In response to Mr Es complaint, TTML have said:  
They appointed another company (company E) as their Appointed Representative for 
specified activities. As the investment adviser to TTML in relation to the fund, company 
Es role was to recommend investment selections, carry out due diligence on investee 
companies, prepare investment proposals and monitor the ongoing performance of 
investments.  
As the due diligence information Mr E requested was confidential and proprietary in 
nature, they were unable to provide him with copies.  
They managed the fund in line with the terms of the IM. Up until September 2018, when 
TTML ceased to manage the fund, the investee companies were performing as 
expected. In late 2019, issues relating to the financial performance of some investee 
companies became apparent. 
This type of investment is high risk and always carries a risk of loss, including complete 
loss. The risks were clearly highlighted in the IM. 
Investee companies have been affected by changes in Government regulation, 
unexpected delays and the withdrawal of funding due to the covid pandemic. 
These happened after management of the fund transferred to another provider, were 
outside of their control and could not have been foreseen at the time Mr E invested. 
It is not correct to say that over reliance on a single heat provider resulted in the loss of 
approximately 85% of the value of Mr Es investment. The two companies Mr E was 
most heavily invested in failed due to different circumstances.  
 
In relation to Mr Es complaint that one of the plants was fully constructed in the 
knowledge a third party plant hadnt been built, TTML said they had no control over the 
progress of the works and were not running the investee company. There is nothing to 
suggest the money invested was not applied to its intended purpose. 
The allocation of Mr Es funds was in line with the IM objective of typically 35% 
exposure in an individual company which allowed leeway to exceed 35% if necessary or 
desirable. The alternative would have been to leave some of Mr Es money uninvested. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said:
He was satisfied that TTML invested Mr Es funds in line with the strategy set out in the 
IM. 
No guarantees were made about how Mr Es investment would perform and the high risk 
of investing in smaller, unquoted companies was explained in the IM. The fact that the 
investment underperformed doesnt mean that TTML did anything wrong.
On balance, and in the absence of sufficient evidence to the contrary, he was satisfied 
that TTML carried out adequate due diligence. He didnt think they were required to 
disclose copies of the due diligence carried out, nor that they had acted unfairly by not 
doing so.
He didnt agree that statements in the IM about borrowing and investing in asset backed 
companies were misleading and he didnt think he could fairly say that TTML had failed to act in line with the IM.  
The IM gave TTML scope to invest more than 35% of an investors funds into one 
company if they considered it necessary. He was satisfied they provided a reasonable 
explanation as to why 42.5% of Mr Es funds were invested in each of two companies 
and didnt think they had breached the IM by doing so. 
Mr E disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. He said: 
TTML had a duty to manage his investment diligently, competently and in accordance 
with regulatory requirements. That they did not do so is evidenced by their lack of 
understanding of the investments and their inability to explain their failure. The risk 
warnings contained in the IM do not override their duty of care or other regulatory 
responsibilities.  
He should be entitled to information to confirm what steps TTML took prior to investing 
and during the lifetime of the investments and what happened to them. There cannot be 
any legitimate reason for TTML not disclosing their due diligence. Whilst our 
investigators strict interpretation of the IM may be correct, it is fair and reasonable for an 
investor to be provided with information that is fundamental to the performance of his 
investment.
No explanation has been given for the apparent disappearance of the fixed assets of the 
companies he was invested in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr E that I have looked carefully at all the information he has provided. 
Having done so, I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed every point 
he has raised. Instead, Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be the key factors 
in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint.  
TTMLs responsibilities
TTML were not responsible for giving advice to Mr E about his investment. So, it wasnt for 
them to decide whether the risks and other features of the fund were suitable for him. 
Any complaint about the suitability of the recommendation would lie against the provider of 
that advice.
The fund was an Alternative Investment Fund (AIF). Under the relevant rules TTML had to 
manage the fund in the best interests of the fund itself, to treat investors fairly, and to act 
with due skill, care and diligence. They also needed to incorporate a due diligence process 
which took account of the funds stated strategy, objectives and risk profile. TTML were also 
responsible for making sure that the information they provided to Mr E was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
The IM described the objectives of the fund as:
 
To offer Investors the opportunity to invest in unquoted EIS Qualifying Companies 
which carry on business in the recycling, environmental and/or waste sectors.The IM summarised the funds strategy in the following way:
Monies raised by the Fund will be deployed into EIS qualifying companies that are 
seeking to build and operate shovel-ready recycling and environmental facilities. 
This provides the underlying investments with significant asset backing combined 
with long term predictable revenue streams secured against reputable counterparts.
The IM also explained that company E would be acting as investment adviser to TTML. 
Company Es role was to select and recommend investments, carry out due diligence on 
them and monitor their ongoing performance. 
I note that Mr E has complained that TTML left decisions solely to company E and failed in 
their own duties as fund manager. I should make clear that it was the responsibility of TTML 
themselves to manage the fund and comply with the relevant rules and regulations that Ive 
referred to. 
However, I dont think that responsibility precluded TTML from employing company E in the 
way it did. TTML was a fund manager, but company E had relevant experience in the 
specific sector that the fund would be investing in. I think it was therefore reasonable for 
TTML to rely on the advice and information company E provided. Im also satisfied that the 
role of company E in selecting the investments was clearly set out within the IM. 
For example, clause 5.2 of the IA sets out that, amongst other things, when performing its 
investment management services TTML would have regard to the advice of company E. 
 
Due diligence
Mr E has complained that he should be able to see the due diligence carried out on investee 
companies. There is no regulatory or other requirement for TTML to disclose this information 
to Mr E in relation to a fund of this type. TTML has asked that the ombudsman accept the 
evidence of the due diligence reports in confidence as the rules governing our service 
(the DISP rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook) allow us to do and I 
think thats appropriate. TTML says the particulars of the documents are commercially 
sensitive and Im satisfied thats the case. 
Ive looked closely at the information provided by TTML in the light of Mr Es concern that the 
due diligence carried out was inadequate. As noted above, company E recommended 
investments and carried out due diligence so TTML would have taken account of company 
Es opinion before investing. Based on what Ive seen, the information that TTML considered 
before deciding to invest in a company also included:
A description of the business plan and proposed market for each company.
Articles of Association and Shareholder Agreements.
Financial information - current position, statements, forecasts, and records of assets 
and liabilities.
Personnel information (employment contracts, share options and consultancy 
agreements).
KYC and AML checks on the company, directors, and large shareholders.
Checks of the company Directors with Companies House.
Information about the companys eligibility for qualifying under the EIS scheme.Im satisfied that TTML considered the sort of information about potential investee 
companies that it would be reasonable to expect a due diligence process to cover. I think 
TTML would have had enough information to make decisions that they considered to be in 
the best interests of the fund.  
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded that TTML failed to act with due skill or 
care in the due diligence process they followed. And Ive not seen anything that would lead 
me to conclude that it wasnt fair and reasonable for TTMS to decide to invest the funds 
money in the companies they selected.   
Ongoing management of the fund
As manager of the fund, it was for TTML to make legitimate commercial decisions on behalf 
of investors based on the information available at the time. And, based on the evidence Ive 
seen Im not persuaded that TTML failed to make decisions in line with the mandate they 
had been given as set out in the IM. 
Ive seen a copy of the report on investee companies from June 2018 and financial 
statements for the companies for the financial year ending in April 2018. The companies 
appeared to be developing their business as planned and I cant see that there was anything 
at that stage that would have alerted TTML to serious issues with the companies or that 
ought to have prompted them to act differently. 
As Ive already noted, the management of the fund transferred to another company in 
September 2018. I cant fairly hold TTML responsible for events after that date; for whatever 
went on to cause the companies to fail; or for the apparent failure to realise any value from 
the companies when they failed. 
From what Ive seen, it appears that a number of the potential risks associated with this kind 
of investment have been realised. I think such risks were made clear in the IM at the time 
Mr E invested. For example:  
The summary of the fund on page 8, under key risks, said there was no guarantee 
that the objectives of the fund or the investee companies would be achieved, and 
investors may lose some or all of the money invested. It also referred to sector 
specific risks and said companies revenue streams may be reduced by changes in 
legislation. 
The section of the IM about risk factors (from page 28) listed a number of risks to the 
fund. These included sector specific issues, the risks of investing in smaller, 
unquoted companies, and risks relating to conflicts of interest. 
The fact that some risks appear to have materialised does not mean that TTML failed to 
make decisions in line with the mandate they had been given. And based on the evidence 
Ive seen I dont think I can fairly say that TTML failed to follow the investment mandate or 
acted negligently. Nor do I think it would be fair to expect TTML to be able to explain events 
that happened after they stopped being involved in the fund.  
Other complaint points
Mr E complained that one of the investee companies took on significant debt despite the IM 
saying the fund would only invest in companies with negligible borrowing. 
It appears that one of the investee companies had about £1.5m of debt in 2017. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think its most likely that the vast majority of the debt related to a debenture that was taken out in 2016 and fully discharged in August 2017. The debenture enabled the 
company to construct and develop its business and defer the associated costs until EIS 
funding had been raised. 
So, although the debenture was a form of borrowing, it was taken for a specific purpose until 
EIS funding had been received and for a relatively short period of time. As such, I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable to say that TTML had failed to act in line with the IM. 
It appears that the same company took out a further debenture in October 2018 but that was 
after management of the fund transferred to another provider so TTML cannot be held 
responsible for that.
Ive considered Mr Es complaint that the IM was misleading in saying the fund would invest 
in asset backed companies. Under the heading asset-backing the IM said the fund would 
invest in businesses developing, purchasing and constructing buildings, plant and 
machinery. Ive not seen any evidence which would suggest funds were not used in that 
way. 
The IM went on to say that although this would provide a significant level of asset protection 
to the investee companies, investors should appreciate that their capital is at risk. 
So, although TTML referred to investing in companies that were asset backed as a way of 
describing the funds intended strategy, I think it also made clear that the fund was a high 
risk investment. I dont therefore think the IM was misleading on this point. 
Mr E has said that two of the investee companies were reliant on one third party company 
building a plant to provide them with energy. Although TTML have disputed the impact of this 
on Mr Es investment, Im not persuaded in any case that this risk made the decision of 
TTML to invest in those companies unfair or unreasonable. The fund was focused on a 
relatively small industry sector, and I dont think it would be uncommon for there to be a 
number of interdependencies between firms operating in the same sector and geographical 
area. Im not persuaded that the extent to which those investee companies relied on the 
same third party power plant meant the investment decision was an unreasonable one for 
TTML to make.
I have also considered Mr Es complaint that a disproportionate amount of his funds was 
invested in just two companies. TTML have said that two of the funds investee companies 
had almost utilised their EIS limit and so 42.5% of Mr Es funds were invested in each of two 
companies. The alternative would have been not to have invested all of Mr Es funds, which 
would have impacted on the tax relief he was eligible for.
The IM said that typically no more than 35% of an investors funds would be invested in 
one company. I note that the risks section of the IM said funds would be invested in a target 
of three companies, but special circumstances may mean holding investments in fewer and 
not benefit from same diversification. 
Im satisfied that TTMLs explanation of their actions is reasonable and, taking account of the 
wording in the IM, I dont think I can fairly say they failed to invest Mr Es funds in line with 
the mandate they had been given. Summary
I would like to reassure Mr E that Ive looked carefully at everything he has said. I can
understand why he feels strongly about what has happened to his investment. But I dont
think I can fairly say that TTML failed to provide sufficiently clear information to Mr E
before he decided to invest, or that they failed to manage his investment in line with the
mandate they were given. 
I dont think it would be fair to hold TTML responsible for Mr Es losses, or to expect it to be 
able to explain events that happened after it stopped managing the fund.  I realise this will be 
a very disappointing decision for Mr E, but I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint 
against Thompson Taraz Managers Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman