DRN-3700725
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) put him on a repayment plan to pay back 
his overdraft when he was struggling financially and failed to explain to him that this would 
negatively impact his credit file.
What happened
Mr H had an overdraft facility with Lloyds. Mr H called Lloyds regarding his financial 
difficulties and Lloyds agreed a repayment plan during which it put a stop on interest and 
charges on his outstanding overdraft balance. Following the phone call Lloyds confirmed the 
details of the repayment plan in writing.
Mr H complained to Lloyds regarding the plan showing up on his credit file and was told the 
information would be removed. Following Lloyds investigation about this it confirmed it was a 
requirement to report arrangements on customers credit file as it must report the conduct of 
the bank account. Lloyds apologised for the misinformation and compensated Mr H £50.
Mr H was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns and reached the conclusion that Lloyds 
hadnt treated Mr H unfairly as it provided support when he needed it and that there was no 
evidence his mortgage payments had increased as a result of the repayment plan being 
reported on his credit file.
Mr H disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr H has experienced and see if Lloyds has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr H back in the position they wouldve 
been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think 
is fair and reasonable.
Mr H contacted Lloyds for some help regarding the repayment of his overdraft with it. A 
repayment plan was agreed between Mr H and Lloyds to reduce his overdraft. During the 
time the plan was in force Lloyds agreed to stop all interest and charges on Mr Hs overdraft. 
The course of action was confirmed in writing following the phone call. The support Lloyds 
offered is in-line with what Id expect if a customer contacted it regarding financial difficulties 
so I cant say Lloyds has done anything wrong here.
Mr H is also unhappy with Lloyds reporting the repayment plan on his credit file and says he 
wasnt told it would negatively impact him and as a result his mortgage repayments have 
gone up. Lloyds agreed the information regarding the reporting of the plan on his credit file 
couldve been clearer and has compensated Mr H £50 for its mistake. But ultimately Mr H is 
responsible for the management of his account and I think it would be reasonable to assume 
that any plan to pay back debt would be reflected on his credit file. 
Lloyds has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. I accept that ideally Mr H would like 
to know how the reporting of the plan would affect his credit file  but without access to all 
the information on Mr Hs financial affairs this is not possible. And I cant say that knowing 
this information in advance wouldve made a material difference to what was reported on Mr 
Hs credit file. 
So I think the £50 Lloyds paid Mr H for its mistake is fair and reasonable compensation given 
the circumstances. Ive also seen no evidence that Mr Hs mortgage repayments have gone 
up as a direct result of information Lloyds were obliged to report. So I cant say Lloyds have 
done anything wrong here.
So overall and having considered everything I think what Lloyds has already done is a fair 
way to settle Mr Hs complaint and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman