DRN-3177172
The complaint
Ms S complains about a guarantor loan provided to her by TFS Loans Limited, (TFS), 
which she says was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this Service on Ms Ss behalf 
by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being 
taken by Ms S.
  
What happened
TFS provided Ms S with a loan of £7,500 in November 2014. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if Ms S failed to make her repayments. 
The interest rate was 18.8%, (43.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 48 monthly 
repayments of £301.33. If Ms S made each repayment when it was due, shed pay 
£14,463.84 in total. The loan was used partly for debt consolidation and TFS directly paid 
£3,277 to Ms Ss debt management plan provider. The remaining £4,223 was paid to Ms S.
Ms S said that TFS didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting credit nor 
did it assess signs of her over-indebtedness. She said that the unaffordable high cost loan 
worsened her financial situation which was already poor.
In its final response letter, TFS concluded that it wasnt upholding Ms Ss complaint. Its letter 
set out details of the information provided to it by Ms S. TFS had also seen Ms Ss three 
most recent weekly payslips, proof of the benefit income Ms S received, and it carried out a 
credit check. TFS said the loan was being taken to repay other creditors (which it cleared 
directly) meaning that Ms S wasnt increasing her total indebtedness and she was also 
reducing her current monthly outgoings and putting herself in a better financial position. The 
information TFS held on its file which it obtained at the time of the application deemed the 
loan affordable.
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said that 
TFS should have verified with evidence that Ms S was going to be able to sustain her 
repayments over the course of the loan. In addition, TFS would have also been aware that    
Ms S had a number of active accounts, with the total balance being significant when 
compared with Ms Ss income. The investigator also noted from TFSs credit checks that   
Ms S had monthly credit repayments of at least £700 to pay from an income of £1,165. So, 
the level of spending towards meeting existing credit commitments, plus this application for 
further credit, suggested Ms S was unable to continue to sustain those commitments without 
relying on further credit. The investigator also said that the credit checks showed that Ms S 
had taken out a number of accounts recently, she had a historic default that wasnt settled, 
and a credit card which was often over its credit limit. This all raised concerns that Ms S 
wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way, without either having to borrow 
further, or going into further financial difficulty.
TFS disagreed. It believed the checks that it had actioned were reasonable and
proportionate. It had gathered information about Ms Ss income, saw her payslips and 
obtained a credit search, along with thorough questioning by its agents to understand Ms Ss
expenditure. TFS had calculated a disposable income to establish if the loan was affordable. 
The lender said that Ms S wanted to consolidate her debt, to ensure she was in a position to 
manage her finances and she had provided confirmation of the amount TFS was to pay 
directly to her debt management plan provider to clear some of her debt. So, TFS said that 
the investigators reference to Ms S being required to make repayments of £700 towards 
creditors was incorrect and Miss S would not be going further into financial difficulties.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms S 
and to TFS on 26 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when TFS lent to Ms S the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not 
a borrower could afford to meet their loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, TFS had to think about whether Ms S could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Ms S undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Ms S. So even in this case 
where Ms S had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments if she couldnt, this didnt 
absolve TFS of its obligation to assess whether Ms S could meet her repayments without 
undue difficulty.
In general, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). TFS had gathered some information from Ms S about her income and expenses before it 
agreed the loan. Id listened to recordings of several phone calls between Ms S and TFS in 
which TFS collected information from Ms S. It had also carried out a credit check and saw 
Ms Ss most recent payslips and evidence of her benefit income. It also received a copy of 
an email from Ms Ss debt management plan provider confirming the amount to be paid to it 
to repay the debts in the plan in full. 
Ms S provided her three most recent weekly payslips to TFS. Each showed a weekly net pay 
of £133.60. TFS calculated this to be a monthly equivalent amount of £592.90. I didnt agree 
with TFSs calculation and Id calculated the monthly equivalent amount to be £578.93. This 
reduced TFSs calculation of Ms Ss monthly disposable income to around £10. 
I agreed with TFS that the monthly equivalent amount of Ms Ss benefit income was 
£590.68. This consisted of tax credit (of £344.76) and Disability Living Allowance (DLA) (of 
£245.92). Whilst it was Ms Ss choice as to how she spent her DLA, I thought TFS should 
have considered the strong likelihood that Ms S would need to use her DLA to pay for 
additional resources associated with her disability, especially over a relatively long loan term 
of four years. So, I thought the DLA should have been disregarded for the purposes of 
calculating Ms Ss disposable income. And I could see that without the DLA, Ms S didnt 
have sufficient monthly income to cover her declared outgoings, financial commitments and 
TFSs loan repayment. 
Even if I thought that the DLA should be included within Ms Ss available income, as Id said 
above, Ms S would only be left with a monthly disposable income of around £10 after 
repaying the loan. So, I thought there would have been a foreseeable risk here that Ms S 
wouldnt have been able to meet 48 monthly payments without difficulty. It wouldnt have 
taken very much unexpected or seasonal expense to leave Ms S in the position of having to 
borrow to meet the loan repayments. In any event, TFS was required to establish whether   
Ms S could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
TFS had asked Ms S for information about her living costs, but it didnt ask for verification of 
these. 
I was concerned that TFS appeared to have relied on Ms Ss statement of her expenses 
without verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said: 
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment 
required under CONC 5.2.2R (1): 
(a) The firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is 
reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement; 
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer; 
So, I thought in Ms Ss circumstances, it would have been proportionate for TFS to have 
verified her actual expenditure to obtain a more complete picture of her financial situation. I 
couldnt see that it did this. 
Id also noted that Ms S had told TFS that she wanted to repay the balances on three 
utility/communications accounts. She said that her water repayments were three months in 
arrears and that she had left a communications company with a £500 bill outstanding. So TFS was alerted to the fact that Ms S was having difficulty managing her money. Even 
though Ms S had told TFS that these debts would be consolidated by its loan, I thought that 
TFS needed to obtain an independent view of Ms Ss expenditure to check that the loan 
would be sustainable.
Id also reviewed TFSs credit report. The report showed that Ms S had a total credit balance 
of around £6,900. There was a defaulted account from around two years prior to the loan 
application. As the record hadnt been updated since July 2013, it was difficult to know from 
the report if Ms S was making repayments to the account. Id also noted there were three 
accounts on which Ms S had missed her last payment. One of these accounts was in a debt 
management programme. On another of these accounts, a credit card, Ms S had missed her 
last two months payments and the payment before these was just £3. The account balance 
was significantly over the credit limit. The credit report also showed a relatively recent need 
for credit. Ms S had taken out four credit accounts in around the last seven months which 
were all still outstanding, and at least two of these were with high cost credit providers. In the 
same period, the report showed Ms S had taken out two payday loans which had since been 
repaid.
Id said that TFS would be aware that not all lenders reported to the same credit reference 
agencies and a lenders credit check wouldnt always be up to date. So, TFS was likely to 
know that Ms S could have had other credit which wasnt shown on its credit report.
Id also said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. Altogether I thought Ms Ss 
relatively recent need for credit, the several recent missed payments, the overlimit account 
and the recent repayment arrangement that TFS would have likely seen on its checks should 
have put the lender on notice that Ms S was likely struggling to manage her money. I thought 
the picture from TFSs credit check was of a consumer with recent financial difficulties whose 
finances were still under pressure at the time of the loan application.
Id noted that the investigator had referred to monthly credit commitments of £700 which 
were being paid from Ms Ss income. I wasnt sure how this amount had been calculated 
based on TFSs credit checks. But TFSs documents suggested that going forward, Ms S 
would be left with two loans which werent being consolidated by TFSs loan with monthly 
repayments totalling around £310. She would also be repaying TFSs monthly repayment of 
around £301. So, Ms Ss total monthly credit commitments were at least around two-thirds of 
her monthly income (without the DLA) or around 52% of her monthly income (including 
DLA). In either case, I thought that TFS ought to have been concerned about this and that it 
was unlikely to be sustainable over 48 months. 
Id also noted that TFS had said that the loan was being taken to repay other creditors 
(which it cleared directly) and that meant that Ms S wasnt increasing her total indebtedness 
and she was also reducing her current monthly outgoings and putting herself in a better 
financial position. But I could see that Ms S was paying her debt management plan provider 
£140 each month and she appeared to be replacing this amount with a loan repayment of 
around £301. So, it wasnt clear how her monthly outgoings would be reduced. I also didnt 
know which of Ms Ss debts were in her debt management plan and which would remain 
unpaid after the loan was made. I also didnt agree with TFSs view that Ms S wasnt 
increasing her total indebtedness. Some of her loan of £7,500 was being used to repay debt 
but Ms S needed around £14,463 to repay the loan. So, it appeared that her total 
indebtedness was being increased. Overall, I was satisfied that the information available to TFS demonstrated that Ms S wasnt 
in a position to take on any more debt and so TFSs decision to arrange the loan wasnt fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Agreeing further credit for Ms S was only likely to add 
to her financial difficulties. So, Id said that I wasnt going to investigate what further checks 
might have shown in view of what Id said above.
So, for the reasons set out above and subject to any further representations by Ms S or TFS, 
my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint and say that TFS should 
put things right as follows: 
Putting things right  what TFS needs to do 
To settle Ms Ss complaint TFS should do the following:-
1. Add up the total amount of money Ms S received (including the money paid to her 
debt management plan provider) as a result of having been given the loan. The 
repayments Ms S made should be deducted from this amount.
       a) If this results in Ms S having paid more than she received, then any
           overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the
           date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
       b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to
           arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms S.
      2. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ss credit file in relation to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give    
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Ms S responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepted it.
TFS responded to say that it had no further comments in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ms S and TFS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint and require TFS to take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things 
right  what TFS needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order TFS Loans Limited to take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things 
right  what TFS needs to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman