DRN-1123996
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with how esure Insurance Limited has settled a claim made by a third 
party on her car insurance. 
What happened
In March 2019 esure was notified of a third party claim on Miss Cs car insurance.
Initially, Miss C told esure her keys had caused the damage to the third partys car, which 
she said she was settling privately. A while later Miss C took back this statement, saying  
shed hit the third partys car when parking. But she disputed shed caused any damage. A 
while after this, Miss C disputed shed hit the third partys car at all.
Esure arranged for an engineer to examine Miss Cs car. But Miss C had sold her car in the 
meantime, meaning the inspection couldnt take place. So Esure told Miss C it was settling 
the claim in full on a fault basis. This was because, with the car having been sold, it said it 
couldnt continue its investigations, including into the costs the third party was claiming for. 
Unhappy with this outcome and with how shed been treated, Miss C complained to esure. 
Esure didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
Miss Cs policy terms in settling the claim as it did. So Miss C complained to us.
The investigator who looked at Miss Cs complaint thought esure had acted fairly and 
reasonably and so didnt uphold it. Miss C has asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint and so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss C that Ive looked at all of the comments and evidence she has 
given us. This includes her comments on our investigators view, which I know she 
particularly wanted an ombudsman to see.
Having done so, though, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. I know this will 
disappoint her but I hope the reasons Im about to give help her to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
To start with, I should day its not my role to decide who was responsible for what happened 
(or didnt happen) in this case. Instead, its to decide if, based on the information Ive got, 
esure acted fairly and reasonably in settling the claim on Miss Cs car insurance as it did.
To do this I must first look at Miss Cs car insurance policy. This says:
 We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings that arise
and we may take over, defend or settle the claim, or take up any claim in your name for our
own benefit.
This means that it was for esure  not Miss C  to decide how to settle her claim. So 
although Miss C has said she wanted esure to do what she called a full investigation before 
making a pay-out to the third party, and is unhappy because she says this didnt happen, it 
wasnt her decision to make. This term is a standard term in most car insurance policies. 
But, as Ive already said, esure needed to act fairly and reasonably in applying it in the 
circumstances of Miss Cs case.
So next Ive looked at whether esure considered all the available evidence and arguments in 
reaching its decision. When Miss C first said her keys and not her car had scratched the 
third partys car, esure looked to turn down the claim. When Miss C then said she had hit the 
third partys car, esure looked at what Miss C said and the photos she sent in of both cars 
after the accident. Theres nothing to suggest there was any other information  for example 
from independent witnesses or the police or CCTV  that esure couldve looked at. 
In internal records, esure notes its highly plausible [Miss C] has scraped the [third party car] 
whilst parking and the damage to her car could rub off (at one point, Miss C had said there 
was a scuff on her bumper which washed off). Because esure couldnt see any damage to 
Miss Cs car from the photos and because her account of what had happened had changed 
over time, in the end it decided an engineer should inspect Miss Cs car. This was to carry 
out what esure calls a consistency report to see if the damage to the third partys car was 
caused by Miss Cs car. 
In the meantime  and without telling esure  Miss C had sold her car. So the inspection 
couldnt go ahead. Because of this, esure told Miss C it was unable to carry out further 
investigations in relation to the costs the third party was claiming for and so it had no option 
but to settle the claim in full. And esure has also said Miss Cs different accounts of what 
happened called into question her credibility as a witness, so it wouldnt consider letting the 
claim run to court.
Miss C says she gave different accounts of what happened because, at first, she thought her 
car may have caused some damage to the third partys car. But then, because her car 
wasnt damaged, she said was confused and puzzled as to how she couldve caused any 
damage. Nevertheless Miss C has given three different accounts of what happened (or didnt 
happen).
Miss C also says she wasn't aware she would need to inform esure she was selling her car 
and because it took them so long, she assumed it may not need to be inspected. But it 
looks like Miss C sold her car within a fairly short time of telling esure she was now disputing 
hitting the third partys car. I dont think shed waited a long time for things to move forward. 
And thered been recent discussions between Miss C and esure about the claim and, 
specifically, about whether the costs and damage the third party was claiming for were 
consistent with what had (or hadnt) happened. Given all of this, I think it shouldve been 
clear to Miss C she ought to tell esure if she was thinking of selling her. In selling it, a key 
piece of evidence in Miss Cs case was no longer available to esure. 
Looking at all the information Ive got, I think esures decision to settle the claim against  
Miss C as it did was in line with the terms and conditions of her policy, took into account all 
the available evidence, doesnt appear unsound or contrary to the evidence and follows 
standard legal principles. And its because of this I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
I know Miss C thinks the amount esure paid the third party to settle the claim wasnt a true 
reflection of the damage. I dont know what the settlement figure was  and Im not sure  
Miss C knows the exact amount either. But since esure couldnt investigate this further  because it couldnt inspect Miss Cs car  I cant see it could reasonably have done anything 
differently.
Miss C also thinks shes received poor service from esure and wasnt listened to when she 
said she hadnt caused the damage. From the information Ive seen, I dont think there were 
unreasonable delays in esures handling of her case. And I think Miss C was listened to 
when she denied shed caused any damage to the third partys car. But I also think esure 
was entitled to question her about what happened because of how her account of events 
changed over time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman