DRN-2336190
The complaint
Miss H complains about two loans provided to her by TFS Loans Limited which she 
says were unaffordable.
What happened
TFS Loans provided Miss H with two loans as follows:
Number Taken Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
1 April 2016 £5000 42 months £224.42
2 October 2018 £5000 24 months £290.17
Miss H said TFS did not carry out the correct checks to ensure the loans were affordable 
and that taking these loans made her overall financial situation worse. She doesnt think it 
fair that she should have to repay anything over and above the principal loan amounts she 
borrowed. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt think that we could uphold it. As Miss H 
disagreed with our adjudicators view, it has come to me to consider afresh and make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. And having done so, Ive come to the same view as our 
adjudicator and Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Miss H and thought about each loan in turn.
loan 1
TFS asked Miss H about her income and expenditure. TFS said that it did its own 
background checks that verified Miss Hs income for loan 1 and TFS recorded Miss Hs 
income as £1,680 a month. 
Then, after asking her about her expenditure, including her spending on other credit 
commitments disclosed in the credit checks that TFS carried out, it worked out that Miss H 
would have £513 in disposable income to spend on other things after paying for loan 1. 
The information shown on the credit checks that TFS obtained didnt suggest that Miss H 
was excessively reliant on credit and her active accounts appeared to be well managed. 
TFS could see from its credit checks that Miss H had some defaults on her record dating 
back some years suggesting that shed struggled to make some repayments in the past. 
But borrowers for this type of loan can have an impaired credit history and other 
outstanding debt  those things arent necessarily reasons on their own not to lend.  
But, like our adjudicator, I dont think its checks were proportionate before agreeing this 
loan. Miss H was entering into a significant commitment with TFS and she was signing 
up to make substantial monthly repayments on this loan for the next 3 years. 
Although she didnt appear to be heavily reliant on credit at that time, the amount she 
borrowed, the total repayment and the length of the loan makes me think, on balance, 
that TFS should have done more to ensure it had a proper understanding of her 
financial situation.  I dont think the checks TFS did before agreeing the loan were sufficient - but that isnt a 
good enough reason for me to uphold Miss Hs complaint. In order for Miss Hs complaint to 
succeed, I would need to be able to say that proportionate checks would have shown TFS 
that Miss H couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So, Ive looked at what I think 
proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
Miss H has provided us with some bank statements  so I've looked carefully through 
these to see what TFS is likely to have found out if it had done more and better checks. 
After thinking carefully about what this information shows, I havent seen enough overall to 
make me think that even if TFS had sought a fuller picture of Miss Hs finances it 
shouldve realised that the loan wasnt likely to be sustainable for her over the loan term. 
So I cant fairly uphold Miss Hs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
By the time Miss H applied for loan 2, TFS was aware that she had incurred some late fees 
on loan 1 and her guarantor had made some payments for her. But she explained that her 
payment problems were the result of enforced pay cuts by her previous employer. She now 
had a new job and a higher salary. So I dont think Miss Hs payment history was enough to 
make TFS think that it shouldnt have kept lending to Miss H.
 
TFS asked Miss H to update the information she provided about her finances and gathered 
information that showed Miss H could expect her income to be a little over £2000 and her 
outgoings were just over £700. So, even allowing for the fact that the monthly repayments on 
this loan were higher, they looked comfortably affordable for Miss H on these figures. 
I've taken into account that the credit checks TFS did before agreeing this loan showed that 
Miss Hs overall credit debt had increased to £9,458 (compared to an equivalent figure of 
£5,148) since she had taken out loan 1. But I dont think that was an excessive overall 
amount of debt for someone in Miss Hs financial situation. And bearing in mind that getting 
a new job doesnt seem to have been difficult for her, it didnt look likely that taking on this 
amount of additional credit when she had needed to would be a problem for her. 
 
Nonetheless, I do think TFS should have looked further into Miss Hs circumstances when 
she applied for loan 2 given that she was signing up to make substantial monthly 
repayments over the next two years. But having looked through all the information she has 
sent me, I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows TFS would 
have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. From what I've been able to see, had 
TFS looked in more depth at Miss Hs finances it wouldnt likely have seen enough to make it 
think that she was facing serious problems managing her money. 
In coming to my view, Ive taken on board Miss Hs point that these loans made her money 
problems worse. I accept that potentially there was a risk that Miss H would be adding to her 
debt problems with this additional borrowing. But I dont think that TFS had any reason to 
think that was going to happen as a result of its loans. Miss H had told TFS that both these 
loans were taken out in order to help pay other loans  and loan 2 was partly used to pay 
loan 1. 
Even if the loans wouldnt have cleared all Miss Hs outstanding debt I think she could still 
have used the money to help her significantly lower her monthly credit commitments each 
time. So I cant fairly say that TFS provided the loans irresponsibly or unfairly.I appreciate that its frustrating for Miss H that she hasnt been able to obtain all the bank 
statements she asked her bank to provide. But I must make my decision based on what 
I think is most likely taking into account all the information thats available, making some 
reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be impartial. 
What Miss H has told me and the information she has sent me isnt enough for me to be able 
to uphold the complaint.
I havent seen enough to say that TFS acted towards Miss H in any other way that was 
unfair or unreasonable. Im very sorry to learn that Miss H was having a difficult time 
regarding her wellbeing during this period of borrowing. But if she didnt tell the lender about 
this (and I've seen nothing to suggest that she did) then this isnt information it would be 
reasonable to expect TFS to have known about or found out from a proportionate check. So 
this isnt a reason for me to make any award against TFS. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be disappointing for Miss H but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps explain how Ive reached this conclusion. And if Miss H would like 
help to manage her finances or to speak to someone about her situation theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can 
provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against TFS Loans 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman