DRN-3373003
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C are unhappy with the repairs Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
carried out after they successfully claimed for water damage under their buildings insurance. 
The policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs C throughout my decision.
 
What happened
Lloyds accepted Mrs Cs claim for damage to her kitchen floor after water leaked from an 
appliance. It appointed a contractor, which Ill call H, to replace the underfloor heating and 
the flooring.
While H was replacing the underfloor heating, Mrs C noticed gaps. When she asked about it, 
the heating was adjusted to fill the gaps near the sink, but created others elsewhere.
When H left, Mrs C looked at an offcut of the wood flooring and noticed that it wasnt solid 
wood, which is what shed had before. She also found that there were cold spots around the 
gaps in her underfloor heating. 
Mrs C contacted Lloyds, but it said shed chosen the flooring and if she had any issues with 
the underfloor heating she should contact H.
Mrs C complained to Lloyds about the difference in flooring. She said it had only given her 
the choice of floorings available from one retailer and shed chosen what she thought was 
the same as her original flooring. Mrs C said she wasnt familiar with using online services 
and felt Lloyds hadnt assisted her with her decision. Further, Mrs C said Lloyds hadnt 
turned up for appointments after shed gone to the effort of clearing her kitchen out, which 
was an exhausting experience for her. 
Lloyds agreed it hadnt handled the appointments well and caused some distress and 
inconvenience. By way of apology it offered Mrs C £75, and a further £250 some months 
later. However, Lloyds said that shed chosen the flooring it fitted and if she remained 
unhappy with the underfloor heating, she should contact H.  
Mrs C brought the complaint to our service and our investigator didnt think Lloyds had 
treated Mrs C fairly. He said it was Lloyds responsibility to provide an effective and lasting 
repair and it shouldnt have told Mrs C to contact H about her concerns. Our investigator also 
thought Lloyds hadnt looked into Mrs Cs concerns properly, so he recommended that it 
inspect the underfloor heating to see whether there were any cold spots. If that was the 
case, Lloyds should fix, or if necessary, replace the underfloor heating.
Our Investigator also didnt think it was fair that Lloyds asked Mrs C to choose her flooring 
online when shed made it clear that she didnt understand the workings of the internet. On 
checking, he noted that the technical information for the flooring was also quite difficult to 
find, and in fact the supplier didnt stock the type of flooring Mrs C had in place before the 
water damage. Therefore, our investigator said Lloyds should replace the flooring again with 
the same type Mrs C had previously.
Lloyds didnt agree. Amongst other things, it said Mrs C had chosen the flooring from a 
different website to the one it recommended, so it couldnt be held responsible for any 
difference in quality or wood type. Lloyds also said the underfloor heating was only adjusted 
at Mrs Cs request. To resolve the matter, Lloyds proposed sending someone to inspect the 
replacement flooring and underfloor heating to determine next steps.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Underfloor heating
Mrs C said her underfloor heating doesnt fit properly  theres a gap and its left her with 
cold spots. Lloyds said it fitted the heat mats to the manufacturer specification and made 
some adjustments at Mrs Cs request. It also said there were gaps in the heat mats Mrs C 
had in place originally.
Ive looked at the photos of the damaged underfloor heating and I agree that there are gaps 
between the heat mats. But I dont think Lloyds is saying it intentionally left gaps to replicate 
what was there before. It seems Lloyds is making the point that gaps between the heat mats 
dont necessarily mean therell be cold spots, and thats what its contractor told Mrs C on the 
day of fitting.
To put Mrs C back in the position she was in before the escape of water, Lloyds shouldve 
replaced her underfloor heating with an effective and lasting alternative. Thats what Lloyds 
says it has done. But when it went back out to check on the cold spots Mrs C reported, it 
didnt conclude one way or the other whether there was a problem. I dont find that to be a 
satisfactory outcome to its visit and Ill take this into consideration when deciding whether 
compensation is warranted.
Lloyds has now suggested that it goes out to check whether there are cold spots and I think 
thats a fair proposal. Taking that a step further, though, if it does identify cold spots beyond 
what can be demonstrated as reasonable, Lloyds should arrange for the heating to be 
repaired or replaced. If cold spots arent identified, theres no reason for Lloyds to do 
anything further about the underfloor heating.
Type of flooring
Mrs C said she originally had a solid bamboo wood floor and shes unhappy that Lloyds 
replaced it with engineered wood. Lloyds said it replaced the flooring with the one Mrs C 
chose.
Firstly, theres been some concern about whether the original floor was bamboo wood. I 
wont be addressing this point because the type of wood is irrelevant. What matters, is 
whether the replacement floor is of a similar quality and the one which Mrs C chose.
However, the evidence regarding this issue isnt clear. Lloyds said Mrs C confirmed her 
choice of flooring to H on 19 November and again on 5 January. Ive looked at the claim 
notes, but I cant see any evidence of that. What I have seen, though, is a note on 23 
December which says, Need to confirm the flooring choice, a further note on 20 January 
which says, the flooring is yet to be confirmed when able to discuss with [Mrs C], and a 
note on 22 January which says, I will call [Mrs C] and advise [H] need flooring choices. 
Around the time these notes were recorded, Lloyds and H had been trying to contact Mrs C 
by phone, unsuccessfully.On 25 January, the records show the following note, (H) can continue and complete our 
works as all materials are now ordered.
This suggests to me that, if Mrs C had confirmed her choice of flooring on 19 November as 
H said, then there was some doubt about what her choice had been. It doesnt mean Lloyds 
fitted the wrong flooring, but I havent seen any evidence to show what Mrs C chose or what 
Lloyds fitted.
So, Ive thought about whether it matters, providing, of course, the replacement was carried 
out in line with the policy. Clearly, Mrs C is unhappy with the replacement flooring because 
its not solid bamboo wood, and I can understand that. Looking at the policy, it provides for 
the following:
How we settle claims under your Buildings covers
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home which is damaged 
(using a suitable equivalent material wherever possible) but not more than the cost of 
completely rebuilding it in its original form. 
This means that, if the type of flooring fitted is comparable with the one Mrs C had before, 
Lloyds will have fulfilled its responsibility under the policy. Ive looked into the two types of 
wood in dispute  solid wood and engineered wood. Im not an expert in this area so Ive 
relied on reputable online sources to determine whether Lloyds has fitted an inferior type of 
flooring. To be clear, the engineered wood Lloyds fitted is not laminate flooring. Its a 
hardwood flooring which seems to be preferred over solid wood when used in kitchens and 
with underfloor heating. The appearance is broadly the same and engineered wood doesnt 
swell and contract in the way solid wood does. The prices of the two types of flooring are 
comparable.
Based on this information, and the evidence provided by Lloyds about the cost of the 
replacement flooring, Im satisfied that it met the terms of the policy and replaced Mrs Cs 
floor with a suitable equivalent material.
Match of wood
Moving on, Mrs C wasnt obliged to have an exact match of wood to the one she had before, 
so she was free to select whatever flooring she preferred providing it wasn't considered 
betterment. I understand she was told to look at a particular website but theres some 
confusion around this. Mrs C says she chose the flooring but had no understanding about 
the different technical specifications. Lloyds said she chose her flooring from a different 
website altogether and it ordered the same type but from its preferred supplier. 
Unfortunately, neither party has supplied any evidence to support what they say. 
I think, here, Lloyds should be able to obtain some sort of proof about what flooring it fitted. 
Lloyds said the supplier it directed Mrs C to doesnt stock the flooring she asked for and it 
fitted, proving she chose from another online retailer. But that could just as easily mean 
Lloyds ordered the wrong one when it used its preferred supplier. 
It seems unusual that Lloyds cant provide any evidence of the flooring chosen or fitted, but I 
dont think that means it should simply replace it. Mrs C didnt complain about the flooring 
until she found a leftover cut-off and saw it wasnt solid wood. That indicates the overall look 
of the floor before then was as she expected and likely to be the one she chose. But, as I 
cant be completely sure what Mrs C asked for and what Lloyds fitted, I think its reasonable 
that it should confirm the details before I reach a final decision. 
Signposting to HWhen Mrs C complained about the quality of wood flooring and the cold spot in the 
underfloor heating, Lloyds told her to raise her concerns directly with H. Ive thought about 
this and I dont think Lloyds treated Mrs C fairly, here. When she claimed under her policy, it 
was Lloyds responsibility to ensure that the repairs were completed properly. While its 
usual practice to appoint contractors, Lloyds remains responsible for the work. Therefore, I 
dont think it shouldve told Mrs C to contact H directly about her concerns. I consider this a 
shortfall in service and Ill take it into consideration when deciding whether compensation is 
warranted.
Customer service
Lloyds offered Mrs C £75 for its service shortfalls and, later, a further £250 in response to 
her complaint. Ive looked at why Lloyds awarded compensation, and I think the sum is fair in 
the circumstances. Lloyds explained that it didnt communicate using Mrs Cs preferred 
method and, on occasions, it used inappropriate methods for her needs. Further, Mrs C 
didnt receive appointment delay or cancellation notices. She explained that shed emptied 
her kitchen, which was exhausting for her, but Lloyds didnt turn up. On other occasions, she 
emptied the kitchen only to find it wasnt necessary.
Mrs and Mr C fall within the generally accepted definition of vulnerable, which Lloyds was 
aware of. But it seems that Lloyds didnt take care to make sure Mrs C was supported during 
the process. 
As Ive said, Lloyds has already offered Mrs C total compensation of £325, which is broadly 
in line with awards Id make in similar circumstances. But, thinking about that alongside the 
additional shortfalls Ive noted, Im minded to require Lloyds to increase its offer by a further 
£100. Thats to reflect the unsatisfactory visit to assess the floor for cold spots, and the lack 
of reassurance provided to Mrs C about whether the wood floor it fitted was the one shed 
chosen.
Summary
Overall, I dont think Lloyds handled Mrs Cs claim as well as she could reasonably have 
expected, and thats caused her some avoidable distress and inconvenience. Lloyds has 
replaced her underfloor heating and wood flooring, but I think it shouldve done more when 
she raised her dissatisfaction with both. While Lloyds visited to check on the cold spots, it 
didnt conclude anything and refused further visits. I can see why Mrs C wouldve been 
frustrated by that. I can also understand Mrs Cs dissatisfaction with the flooring fitted. While 
the type of floor is comparable and meets the policy requirements, I dont think its been 
helpful that Lloyds has been unable to evidence or reassure Mrs C that it fitted the one she 
chose. 
For these reasons, I think its reasonable to increase the compensation and ask Lloyds to 
inspect the underfloor heating. Ill also consider any evidence I receive about the flooring Mrs 
C ordered before reaching my final decision.
I said I was intending to uphold the complaint and I was minded to require Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to:
arrange a visit to Mrs C to identify whether there are any cold spots in the kitchen 
underfloor heating;
repair the underfloor heating if cold spots are found which are beyond what might 
reasonably occur in a properly installed system;pay Mrs C the compensation of £325 which it had previously offered, if it hasnt done 
so already, and
pay a further £100 for the failure to carry out a worthwhile inspection of, or report 
back the results of, her underfloor heating, causing this matter to be prolonged 
unnecessarily.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Lloyds provided evidence of the flooring it ordered and fitted, and accepted the overall 
outcome of my provisional decision.
Mrs C called to give details of her diary entry in which shed recorded details of the flooring 
she asked Lloyds to fit. She also confirmed that she didnt look at other websites; she did tell 
the fitter that the flooring didnt look the same as the one she asked for; she raised the point 
about cold spots with the fitter, and Lloyds hadnt seen the flooring she had before so it cant 
compare them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. 
Flooring
Firstly, the flooring details Mrs C provided exactly match the details on the order form Lloyds 
provided. The diary entry and order dates also match the account notes Lloyds provided. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Lloyds ordered and fitted the flooring Mrs C asked for.
While I understand Mrs C doesnt think it was the same, and she told the fitter that at the 
time, it may be because the website doesnt accurately reflect the matte effect of the flooring. 
Nevertheless, Im satisfied that Lloyds fitted the flooring Mrs C asked for and which was of 
similar quality to that which she had before. I wont be asking Lloyds to do any more in 
respect of this point.
Cold spots
Mrs C says she questioned the fitter about cold spots in the underfloor heating at the time of 
installation. She also went on to say that when Lloyds inspected it again, she didnt get an 
answer about whether there were cold spots. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I find this unsatisfactory and I can see why Mrs C 
wouldve been frustrated with Lloyds lack of response. But Im satisfied that my requirement 
for it to carry out a further inspection is a reasonable solution to this matter.Removed flooring
Mrs C said contractors removed her old flooring before Lloyds had chance to see it, so it 
cant compare the two. Ive seen the photos of the removed flooring and underfloor heating, 
as has Lloyds, so I dont agree that it has no point of reference. That said, Ive already 
concluded that Lloyds replaced the flooring in line with the policy terms and conditions, so I 
see no reason to make any further requirements of it in respect of this point.
In summary, Im satisfied Lloyds has demonstrated that it fitted the flooring Mrs C asked for 
and that it was of a similar quality to the one removed. Therefore, Ill be requiring Lloyds to 
complete the actions set out in my provisional decision, but I wont be asking it to do any 
more in respect of the wood flooring.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint and Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must:
arrange a visit to Mrs C to identify whether there are any cold spots in the kitchen 
underfloor heating;
repair the underfloor heating if cold spots are found which are beyond what might 
reasonably occur in a properly installed system;
pay Mrs C the compensation of £325 which it had previously offered, if it hasnt done 
so already, and
pay a further £100 for the failure to carry out a worthwhile inspection of, or report 
back the results of, her underfloor heating, causing this matter to be prolonged 
unnecessarily.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman