The complaint
Miss C has complained that Claims Thru Us Limited (CTU) are unfairly charging her fees 
for payment protection insurance (PPI) claims she feels she progressed herself.
What happened
 Miss C instructed CTU to pursue claims for potentially mis-sold PPI in May 2019. CTU 
identified potential PPI on four accounts and submitted these claims to lender B. Miss C was 
then contacted directly by lender B for further information.
Miss C was unhappy shed had to spend time talking to lender B so thought CTU had failed 
to progress her claims. Because of this, she told CTU she didnt want them to be involved in 
her claims any further and that she wouldnt be paying a success on any claims upheld by 
lender B. 
CTU responded saying they thought theyd progressed Miss Cs claims effectively 
considering the volume of claims that had been submitted to themselves and lender B 
around the PPI deadline. But they acknowledged Miss Cs request to cancel their instruction 
and processed to issue Miss C the subsequent cancellation charges. Miss C was unhappy 
with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought CTU had 
progressed the claims fairly and couldnt be held responsible for lender B contacting Miss C 
directly. So, she felt they were entitled to charge their cancellation fees as per the terms of 
the agreement. 
Miss C didnt accept this view as she maintained her stance that CTU hadnt done any work 
to warrant a fee. But she offered to pay the 15% plus VAT (18%) success fee for each 
upheld claim if the cancellation fees were waived. CTU accepted this offer. But, as Miss C 
still didnt think any fee should be paid, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Im aware Miss C has agreed to pay the success fees for each upheld claim since the 
investigators initial view, which focused on the cancellation charges that were outstanding at 
the time. While the fees Miss C is disputing are different, her complaint about CTUs 
progression of her claims remain the same. So, Ive considered the work CTU completed 
and whether the fees paid by Miss C were fair.
DRN-1346750Ive seen the terms and conditions Miss C agreed to when she instructed CTU. These 
explain their fee would be 18% inclusive of VAT. They go on to explain Miss C agreed to pay 
the fee due as a result of a successful claim, or where a cancellation fee has been charged.
I think this makes reasonably clear a successful claim submitted by CTU would result in a 
success fee. For me to decide a fee shouldnt be due, Id need to be satisfied that CTU 
completed no work of any value to Miss C. And in this instance, I dont think this is the case.
Following Miss Cs instruction, CTU say they sent a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) 
to lender B to understand whether any accounts Miss C held contained PPI. From this 
DSAR, they identified four accounts which they wanted to pursue on Miss Cs behalf. They 
wrote to Miss C on 23 August asking for a new letter of authority which I can see she signed 
and returned on 29 August. Ive seen CTU submitted these claims to lender B on 2 
September.
Following this, Ive seen lender B wrote to Miss C on 10, 13 and 17 September asking her to 
verify her current address before they could fully investigate her claims. Copies of these 
letters were sent to CTU. So, lender B recognised CTU as Miss Cs representative and took 
the decision themselves to contact her directly to verify her address.
CTU have acknowledged they didnt contact Miss C as promptly as they would have liked 
after receiving these letters. And I agree that ideally, they would have contacted Miss C to 
make her aware that lender B needed her address to be verified before 2 October, when 
Miss C says she received an e-mail. But even if CTU had, I think its likely that Miss C would 
still have been required to speak to lender B directly. Lender B asked her to contact them 
directly and explained that a number of security questions would be asked to confirm her 
identity. I dont think it wouldve been possible for CTU to pass these on Miss Cs behalf.
So, while I can understand why Miss C wouldve been frustrated at having to spend time on 
the phone to lender B providing this information, I dont think this has resulted from any 
failures by CTU. 
I think CTU have progressed the claims as Id expect and following the claims they 
submitted, Miss C has received compensation. So, I think CTU are reasonable to invoice 
Miss C for a success fee, in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. For this 
reason, I dont think CTU need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about Claims Thru Us 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman