DRN-2693573
The complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs S took out in 1996. It was added to her 
account when she applied for the card in the store.
I sent Mrs S and AXA a provisional decision on 17 February 2021, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
AXA didnt recommend the PPI for Mrs S, so it didnt have to check whether it was right for 
her. But it did have to give her information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading  so that she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Mrs S clear enough information about the terms for self-employed 
people at the point of sale. And I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs S, because according to 
the PPIs terms and conditions, it looks like she wouldve been treated as self-employed by 
virtue of working for her husbands business.
That meant that in order to claim for unemployment, Mrs S had to be able to show that she 
had stopped trading and the business was being wound up or was in the hands of a 
liquidator. But Mrs S didnt actually have control over the company herself. So it would have 
been difficult for her to fulfil those conditions.
More importantly, it meant that if Mrs S lost her job, but the company carried on trading, then 
she wouldnt be able to claim any unemployment benefit at all. So it wouldve been much 
harder for Mrs S to claim for unemployment than she mightve reasonably expected.
I cant see that AXA highlighted these terms or otherwise made them clear to Mrs S during 
her sale. If it had done, then I dont think its likely she wouldve bought the policy. So I think 
its most likely that Mrs S has lost out because of the flaws in this sale.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
17 March 2021. But neither AXA nor Mrs S sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that its most likely this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
Putting things right
I direct AXA France IARD to put Mrs S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI. That means:
A.) AXA should find out how much Mrs S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Mrs S would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs S wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct AXA France IARD to put things right in the way I set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman