DRN-1979041
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance plc (RSA) is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. Where the complaint is about a claim 
under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance company that 
was responsible for dealing with that claim.
In our final decision we name that insurance company, but we dont name any other 
company, brand or individual.
Mrs H had a policy in the name of an insurance intermediary. The policy covered her central 
heating boiler.
RSA was the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to RSA 
or the insurer, I include engineers and others insofar as I hold RSA responsible for their 
actions.
After an initial visit in December 2019 RSA replaced the boilers expansion vessel. Within a 
couple of days, there was a leak of water through the kitchen ceiling and onto the laminate 
flooring. RSA stopped the leak.
Mrs H complained that RSA was responsible for causing the leak and damage to floor 
coverings.
In its final response letter dated 30 January 2020, RSA denied responsibility for causing the 
leak. Unhappy with that, Mrs H brought her complaint to us in February 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
the insurer was responsible for the damage. 
Mrs H disagrees with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
There was no sign of a leak before the engineer came out.
Up until the engineer did work on her boiler it was perfectly fine.
2 days later she got home to water pouring out of her kitchen light fittings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what she says, Mrs Hs boiler is upstairs above the kitchen. There was an expansion 
vessel, a filling loop and a scale reducer.
Mrs H had carpet on the stairs and landing. Throughout the ground floor she had laminate 
flooring that was ten years old and couldnt be matched.
Mrs H works for a plumbing firm. She says RSA replaced not only the expansion vessel but 
also the filling loop. She says that its likely the pressure couldve forced the scale reducer to 
open and therefore cause the leak.
In any event the leak followed shortly after RSAs visit. So I can see why Mrs H considers 
RSA responsible for the estimated cost of over £2,000.00 to replace the carpet and laminate 
flooring.
However, the policy contained the following exclusion:
2.9. We will not pay for any filter or related device for the purpose of removing 
sludge, scale or other debris from your central heating or plumbing system, unless 
integral to the boiler.
And Mrs Hs limescale reducer was under the boiler. So I dont consider that it was integral 
to it. So the policy didnt cover Mrs Hs limescale reducer and RSA didnt work on that part 
before the leak. And the scale reducer is where the leak came from. 
Theres not enough technical evidence to show that RSAs work (on other parts) fell below a 
reasonable standard  and thereby caused the leak. 
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to compensate Mrs H for the 
damage, distress and inconvenience caused by the leak.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance plc to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman