DRN-2695406
The complaint
Mr O has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) acted unfairly when it 
started to charge him a monthly fee for a packaged bank account, called a Select Platinum 
account. He wants it to refund him the fees he paid.
What happened
RBS offers several different types of bank account to its customers. One of these is the 
Select Platinum account, for which it usually charges customers a monthly fee and 
provides several potential benefits in return.
Mr O used to work for RBS. While he was there, he held a Select Platinum account, but as 
an employee, RBS did not charge him the monthly fee. In 2018, he took voluntary 
redundancy.
After Mr Os redundancy, RBS kept his Select Platinum account in place. At first, the 
account was still free for Mr O, but later on, RBS started to charge him the monthly fee. Mr 
O thinks this was unfair. He thinks that RBS should have automatically switched him to a 
fee-free account when he left.
I previously sent Mr O and RBS a provisional decision on this complaint. In that provisional 
decision, I explained that I anticipated that I wouldnt uphold the case. But I gave both 
parties the opportunity to make any further points they wanted me to consider before I 
reached a final decision.
The time I allowed for further comments has now passed. RBS has not said anything 
further, but Mr O has sent several comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr O and RBS have told us or sent us about the case, including 
the comments Mr O has made on my provisional decision, and Ive decided not to uphold 
it. 
Most of the new points Mr O has made are about the way I evaluated conflicting views 
between himself and RBS in my provisional decision. So first, I will copy most of what I said 
in my provisional decision and then describe Mr Os new points and give my evaluation of 
them.
Copy from my provisional decision 
Obviously, it is entirely up to RBS to determine what benefits it provides to its employees 
and how long it allows staff who leave to keep those benefits. I will not comment on those 
arrangements. But I can consider whether RBS treated Mr O fairly as a customer, even 
though he was simultaneously an employee, including questions such as what RBS told 
him about the Select Platinum account and what choices it gave him when he left.
RBS has told us that before Mr O left, it told him that he could keep the Select Platinum 
account free of charge for six months, but after that he would have to pay the monthly fee. 
Mr O has denied that RBS explained this to him. Hes told us that RBS didnt say anything 
to him about the account. Hes has also said that it was a full year after his redundancy 
before RBS charged him the first monthly fee.
With this level of direct disagreement, I cant tell for sure what happened, but there doesnt 
seem to be any doubt that while Mr O worked for RBS it told him that he only got the Select 
Platinum account free due to his employment. I doubt very much that RBS told Mr O he 
could have had it free solely as a customer. I also think its likely that RBS told Mr O that 
once he stopped being an employee, he would have to pay the monthly fee, as this seems 
to have been part of its standard procedure for people who were leaving. So, I think its 
highly likely that Mr O knew that he wouldnt have been able to keep the Select Platinum 
account for free on a long-term basis after he left.
I dont know why RBS allowed Mr O to have the Select Platinum account free for a year 
rather than six months, but I dont think this longer free period is particularly significant to 
the outcome of this complaint. However, the crux of Mr Os case is that he thinks RBS 
should automatically have downgraded his account to one without a fee when he left, so 
he would never have had pay the monthly charge.
Mr O has said that he didnt want or need any of the benefits of the Select Platinum 
account and thinks it was unfair of RBS to assume he did. Hes pointed out that all his 
other employee benefits, such as death in service insurance and free dental care, stopped 
immediately he left, and has questioned why RBS acted differently over the Select 
Platinum account.
The Select Platinum account included some benefits, such as use of a car breakdown 
service and travel insurance which could have been important to Mr O as a customer. 
So, I disagree with him that RBS should have automatically switched him to a fee-free 
account which wouldnt have had these benefits. I would not have expected it to do 
this without his consent as a customer.
However, I would have expected RBS to allow Mr O a choice to switch to a fee-free 
account if he wanted. Once again, I cant tell for sure what RBS said to Mr O about this, but 
fee-free accounts have been widely available in the UK for a long time, both from RBS itself 
and from other banks, and I think its highly likely that Mr O knew about this; and I havent 
seen anything to make me think that RBS denied him such a choice. Nor do I think that Mr 
Os comparison with some of his other employee benefits is particularly relevant, as, unlike 
the Select Platinum account, they were not products which RBS offered to external 
customers.
Mr O has also complained that he thinks that RBS gave him poor customer service in the 
way it handled his complaint. Hes told us that it promised to call him back several times 
but never did. Hes said that as a result he wasted several hours of his time and wants 
compensation for this. RBS responded to this part of Mr Os complaint separately. I have 
seen a copy of a letter it wrote to him in which it said that it agreed it had failed to call him 
back and that it was very sorry this had happened.
I dont know why RBS didnt call Mr O back, but in the circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont think that Mr O suffered a direct financial loss or any material distress or 
inconvenience as a result. I think RBS responded reasonably.Mr Os response to my provisional decision
Turning to Mr Os response to my provisional decision, he has made several points, which to me 
seem to fall into two categories of quality of evidence and his expectations on leaving. I have 
considered each in turn.
Quality of evidence 
In outline, Mr O has said that in my provisional decision he thinks I made too many 
assumptions; I didnt show evidence of any conversation he had with RBS (or give a time 
and date for it); I took RBSs side and gave it the benefit of the doubt; and there is no 
documentation and no signed paperwork to show what happened.
Firstly, I am sorry Mr O thinks that I took RBSs side. My role is to consider what both parties 
have told us, and where there is a direct conflict of opinion, to determine what is most likely to 
have happened. I would like to reassure Mr O that I am impartial and independent. So, in light of 
his comments, I have reconsidered what I said in my provisional decision and Im satisfied that I 
was objective. 
I accept Mr Os comments about the shortage of documentation and definitive evidence, but this 
doesnt mean RBS did things incorrectly. He has asked how I can know with no shadow any 
doubt that RBS followed its procedure correctly. As I said in my provisional decision, I cant tell 
for sure what happened, but taking account of the full circumstances and everything both parties 
have told me, Im satisfied that RBS let Mr O know that he couldnt have the Select Platinum 
account for free in the long term, and that gave him a choice to change. 
Mr Os expectations of leaving
In outline, Mr O has told us that when he left RBS, he didnt want the Select Platinum account 
and thought that RBS would switch him to a fee-free account. Hes s pointed out that he used a 
software application for banking, which had a nickname for his account (not Select Platinum) 
and so didnt know he still had it. He therefore thinks it was unfair for RBS to start to charge him 
twelve months later.
To me, the critical point is that I would not have expected RBS to switch Mr O to a fee-free 
account (with no benefits) unless he gave his consent. As Mr O doesnt seem to have done this, I 
dont think RBS did anything wrong. And I dont think it was responsible for the nickname on Mr 
Os software application. 
So, in summary, after considering Mr Os further comments, I still think that RBS met its 
obligations to him as a customer and that it was entitled to start to charge him for the Select 
Platinum account. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Os complaint about The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman