DRN-4441202
Complaint
Miss L has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to her. 
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss L and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So he didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Miss L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ls complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Ls 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss L 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Miss L with a loan for £350 in February 2021. It had an APR of 1,013% and 
was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £79.99 which meant the total amount to be repaid 
was £1,439.82. L2G says it agreed to Miss Ls application after she provided details of her 
monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit 
search it carried out on Miss L. 
The information Miss L provided about her income and expenditure showed shed be able to 
make the repayments she was committing to. But it, in any event, adjusted Miss Ls income 
and expenditure information to account for what its checks showed and this still showed the 
required payments were affordable. L2G says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to 
lend. On the other hand, Miss L has said she was in financial difficulty. 
Ive carefully thought about what Miss L and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Miss Ls first loan with L2G. The information provided suggests Miss L was 
asked to provide details of her income and expenditure. Equally, L2G did carry out external 
checks and didnt simply rely on what it was told. 
L2G carried out a credit search which didnt show anything too alarming. There were a 
couple of historic issues  namely a couple of historic defaults from 2017 and 2019 but        
Miss Ls recent commitments were on the whole being reasonably maintained. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments appeared affordable and Miss Ls lack of any 
previous lending with L2G, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to proceed on the basis 
of the information it obtained as, on the face of things, it appeared to be accurate. 
I accept Miss Ls actual circumstances may not been reflected in the information she 
provided and the other information L2G obtained. But L2G could only make its decision 
based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship and bearing in mind the circumstances, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into L2G asking Miss L to provide further information. 
At best, perhaps should have asked Miss L about her relatively recent missed payments. 
And Ive not been provided with anything that indicates doing so would have led to Miss Ls 
application being declined.
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding
to lend to Miss L - it carried out proportionate checks even though Miss L now argues that 
what it was provided with didnt tell the whole story. 
L2G reasonably relied on this information and given the circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ls 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss L. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman