DRN-3532714
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a 
package bank account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms account history is as follows:
opened as a fee-free account 6 December 1995
changed to a Royalties packaged account on 20 October 1997
changed to a Royalties Gold packaged account 21 September 1998
migrated to a Select Platinum account on 9 July 2015
added Reward to their Select Platinum account on 10 March 2017
changed to a fee-free account on 16 March 2022
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of their 
package bank accounts but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs M disagreed this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think that Mr and Mrs M were mis-sold their package bank accounts. I 
will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
When Mr and Mrs Ms account was migrated from the Royalties Gold account to a Select 
Platinum account in July 2015 this was done as part of a business decision taken by RBS to 
no longer offer the Royalties Gold account and was an administrative exercise. Businesses 
can make changes to their account offerings and remove products. This is a practice that 
has taken place for many years and considered reasonable. A sale did not take place at that 
time, so I wont be considering this change in account.
There is limited information available from the time the package bank accounts were sold to 
Mr and Mrs M. But this isnt surprising considering the time thats passed and that 
businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely.
Mr and Mrs M have told us that when they took their Royalties account in 1997, they were 
told they had to have it to get a loan. RBS has told us that it was never the case that a 
package bank account was required to make a loan application and that Mr and Mrs M 
would have known this as they had previously taken loans with the bank.
In response Mr and Mrs M have told us that the loan they were looking to take when they 
were told they had to have the Royalties account was for a significantly higher amount than 
they had previously borrowed so they assumed this was the reason they had to have it.
I have thought about what both RBS and Mr and Mrs M have told us. Mr and Mrs M took out 
their Royalties account on 20 October 1997 and changed their account to a Royalties Gold 
account on 21 September 1998. But they did not apply for their substantial loan, or any other 
loan until October 1999 which is more than a year after they say they were told they had to 
take a package bank account to apply for it.
With the above information in mind I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M opened their Royalties 
account or changed it to a Royalties Gold account because they were told they had to have 
it to obtain a loan. 
When Mr and Mrs M took their Royalties account on 20 October 1997 it came with payment 
card protection, £5,000 accidental death cover, extended warranty cover, 90 day purchase 
protection, £100 interest free overdraft (with preferential rates above this) and preferential 
rates on loans and savings.
When Mr and Mrs M changed their account to the Royalties Gold account on 21 September 
1998 the account came with increased and additional benefits when compared to the 
Royalties account. It came with payment card protection, accidental death cover at £10,000, 
180 day purchase protection, £250 interest free overdraft (with preferential rates above this) 
and more preferential rates on loans and savings. 
In addition to the above increased benefits the account also came with worldwide family 
travel insurance and a fee free Gold visa card.
While I cant be certain what was said when Mr and Mrs M were sold their package bank 
accounts, I think its likely that at least an overview of the benefits that came with the 
accounts were discussed.
From the information gathered I think the benefits offered by the Royalties and Royalties 
Gold account could have been useful to Mr and Mrs M and I havent seen anything to 
suggest they wouldnt have been able to take advantage of the benefits. 
Mr and Mrs M have told us that Mr M would not have been able to make use of the travel 
insurance due to a medical condition. Although the medical condition appears to have 
developed around 10 years ago which was more than a decade after they made the decision 
to take their package accounts. So, this condition would not have been a factor for them to 
consider at the time. 
In March 2017 Mr and Mrs M added Reward to their account. This was not the sale of a new 
account or an upgrade it was an addon that allowed Mr and Mrs M to benefit from cashback 
on household bills. This option would have needed to have been proactively added by Mr 
and Mrs M. As a sale did not take place at the time, I will not be considering this change.
In summary, with the information I have I dont think Mr and Mrs M were mis-sold their 
package bank accounts.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman