DRN-3771741
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont 
reimburse the consequential losses its suffered as a result of banking errors, or offer 
appropriate compensation.
Mr R, who is a director of C, brings the complaint on Cs behalf.
Whats happened?
Mr R is now the sole director of C. But at the time this complaint arose, there was another 
director  Mr P.
In early June 2019, Mr R says he became aware that Mr P was able to make payments from 
Cs Clydesdale account via telephone and online banking without any second director 
checks or authorisation. This wasnt in line with the directors agreement about how 
payments were to be made from Cs account, or the payment arrangement Mr R thought the 
bank had put in place, and Clydesdale said that it would revoke Mr Ps access to telephone 
and online banking. But the bank failed to do this, and on 13 June 2019, Mr R says that Mr P 
embezzled £25,000 from C using online banking.
Clydesdale was notified of the alleged fraud a short while after it occurred. In response, the 
bank froze Cs account  it said the account would be unfrozen when the director dispute 
was resolved. In the interim, it allowed ad hoc transactions from the account under 
supervision, so that C could continue its business.
On 9 August 2019, Clydesdale refunded the £25,000 Mr P had paid out of Cs account. Its 
explained that Mr R didnt have authority to remove Mr Ps telephone/online banking access, 
so it couldnt revoke this in early June 2019. But as there was a director dispute, it shouldve 
frozen the account at that time pending confirmation from Cs directors on how they wanted 
the account to operate going forwards. An account freeze would have rendered the disputed 
withdrawal impossible. So, the bank has decided to refund the £25,000 and offer £1,000 by 
way of compensation.
Mr P resigned from his position as a director of C in early 2020, and Mr R became sole 
director and signatory to Cs account. As a result, Clydesdale considered the director dispute 
resolved and the blocks on Cs account were lifted.
Mr R says that the embezzlement and Clydesdales stipulations for unfreezing Cs account 
have resulted in substantial costs to C, and personal trouble and upset. Hed like the bank to 
reimburse the costs incurred and offer appropriate compensation.
Clydesdale has refused this request, so Mr R has brought a complaint to this Service.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator thought that Clydesdale had done enough to resolve this complaint and 
didnt recommend that it take any further action.
Mr R didnt accept this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 8 September 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
It is my role to decide whether a bank error/s has occurred that has led to a financial loss in 
this case, and, if it has, what Clydesdale should do to put things right.
Ive looked at the original mandate for Cs account signed in April 2018 (the old mandate), 
and the new one signed in July 2018 (the new mandate). By signing the new mandate, I 
can see that the directors of C intended to put an arrangement in place under which 
payments could only be made from Cs account with the permission of two directors. The 
new mandate says that signing instructions must be received from Mr R plus one other 
director. But dual control requirements cant normally be applied to internet banking. And the 
old mandate says:
BusinessOnline/Internet Banking/Telephone Banking
Please be aware that any amendments to this mandate will not update any 
BusinessOnline/Internet Banking/Telephone Banking users, should you need to make any 
amendments please contact your Relationship Manager/Branch.
Clydesdale was given signed instructions for Mr P to have telephone/online banking access 
to Cs account in May 2018, and the new mandate did not revoke this. So, Mr P was able to 
make payments from Cs account without second director authorisation prior to June 2019, 
and Im not satisfied that there was a bank error in this respect.
But I agree with the bank that it was appropriate for it to freeze Cs account pending 
confirmation from Cs directors of how the account should be operated going forwards when 
Mr R contacted it in early June 2019. I appreciate that Mr R doesnt believe there was a 
dispute between himself and Mr P at the time  as the alleged embezzlement had not yet 
occurred. But even if there was no argument between the two directors, the bank received 
instructions from one director for the removal of the other directors telephone/online banking 
access to Cs account. Im satisfied that Clydesdale ought to have regarded that as a 
director dispute. It had not received corresponding instructions from Mr P, and Mr P may not 
have agreed that his access should be revoked.
If the bank had frozen Cs account in early June 2019, as I think it ought to have, then the 
alleged embezzlement could not have occurred. So I think it was fair and reasonable for the 
bank to reimburse the £25,000 payment Mr P made from the account and offer C £1,000 by 
way of compensation (albeit that I have not seen any conclusive evidence that Mr P wasnt 
entitled to the funds he removed from the account). But Im not persuaded that the bank 
should reasonably reimburse any consequential costs or offer further compensation.
Clydesdale can be held responsible for financial losses if they were incurred as a direct 
result of its action or inaction, and if the losses were foreseeable  its not always fair to hold 
a business responsible for everything that happens following a mistake, some losses that 
flow directly from a mistake may not have been a reasonably foreseeable result of the error. 
In this case, Im not satisfied that the consequential losses C has claimed where reasonably 
foreseeable to Clydesdale when Mr R contacted it in early June 2019. I think that the chain 
of events which began because Clydesdale didnt freeze Cs account at the time were 
particularly unusual, and Im not persuaded that Clydesdale knew or ought to have known 
that there would be such consequences.I can see that the consequential losses predominantly flow from the alleged embezzlement 
and the action that C needed to take as a result of it  to save its projects, reassure investors 
and remove Mr Ps director status. Mr R has argued that he put Clydesdale on notice of the 
potential for fraud when he contacted it in early June 2019. He says that he let Clydesdale 
know that improper activity had occurred on Cs account and pointed out that Mr P had been 
making unauthorised transactions using telephone/online banking. But I havent seen any 
supporting evidence. The available evidence shows that Mr R told Clydesdale that he 
wanted Mr Ps telephone/online banking access to Cs account revoked, and that it was not 
the directors intention for Mr P to be able to make payments from the account without his 
authorisation. It also shows theres no allegation that Mr P had fraudulently removed funds 
from Cs account before, and previous payments hed made via telephone/online banking 
were legitimate and in line with the signed account access instructions the bank had 
previously received (albeit that Mr R considers the payments unauthorised by him). So, Im 
not persuaded that Clydesdale knew or ought to have known that unauthorised transactions 
had already occurred on Cs account  because they hadnt. Or that the bank knew or ought 
to have known that Mr P would embezzle funds from Cs account if it were not frozen 
immediately.
The bank knew that Mr R wanted sole telephone/online banking access to Cs account, in 
line with the directors agreement about payments out of the account. And as Ive set out 
above, I think it ought to have regarded that as a director dispute and frozen the account. 
But Im not persuaded that it was reasonably foreseeable that embezzlement and 
consequential losses would flow from its inaction in this respect. Not least because Mr P had 
been legitimately using Cs account for some time prior to June 2019, in line with the signed 
instructions the bank had received, without committing fraud. So, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to require Clydesdale to reimburse the consequential losses C has claimed.
I also think that Clydesdales offer to pay £1,000 by way of compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and that the offer is in line with the awards this Service 
makes.
On a final note, Im satisfied that Clydesdales decision to freeze Cs account until the 
director dispute was resolved was appropriate and designed to protect C. I wouldnt expect 
to see it had allowed unfettered access to the account in the circumstances. But Im pleased 
to see that the bank decided to allow ad hoc payments under supervision so that C could 
continue to operate, and that it unfroze the account without delay once the dispute was 
resolved.
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive provisionally decided that Clydesdale has done enough 
to resolve this complaint. I dont intend to instruct it to take any further action.
Responses to my provisional decision
Clydesdale did not respond to my provisional decision, and Mr R disagreed with it. In 
summary, he said:
Cs consequential losses currently stand at around £66,000.
Mr P was not entitled to the funds he embezzled, and he was not entitled to help 
himself to those funds from Cs account.
Until early 2019, there was another director of C  Mr C. Mr C shared a document 
with Clydesdale which set out how payments were to be made and authorised from 
Cs account when he hand-delivered the new mandate to the bank. So, Clydesdale 
cannot argue that it was unaware of the payment arrangements the directors intended to put in place on Cs account.
Mr R wasnt a signatory to the old mandate, and he wasnt privy to its terms. He 
didnt know that Mr P had access to telephone/internet banking or that dual control 
requirements dont usually apply to telephone/internet banking. Clydesdale should 
have made Mr R and/or Cs directors aware that Mr P had sole use of online facilities 
when it received the new mandate. If it had done so, corrective action couldve been 
taken at the time. 
The new mandate was ineptly implemented by Clydesdale, and the bank is liable for 
the consequences of that. Mr P should not have had access to telephone/internet 
banking at the time of the embezzlement.
When Mr R contacted Clydesdale in early June 2019, he sought an explanation as to 
how payments were leaving Cs account without his authorisation. The bank 
identified that Mr P was using telephone/internet banking to make payments out of 
the account without his authorisation, and he advised it that this was not a company 
authorised procedure for making payments. It was the banks decision to revoke     
Mr Ps online facilities in response to this advice because it was incompatible with the 
terms of the new mandate and with Cs documented payment policy. The bank sent 
Mr R an email at the time which said I spoke to the business internet banking team 
and it should be only you that has access to this account via internet banking. You 
will have to call our e-fraud department to explain the situation as they will not speak 
to me not being the account holder. 
The consequences of Clydesdales series of errors in relation to Cs account in 2018 
and 2019 were foreseeable to the bank, and in plain sight. When Mr R spoke to the 
bank in early June 2019, it became apparent that Mr P had made four payments with 
his approval, but via telephone banking rather than submitting CHAPS forms to the 
bank, and eight payments had been made via internet banking without his approval. 
The significance of this was clear to the bank and Mr R, and its the reason why the 
bank immediately sought to revoke Mr Ps telephone/online banking access  it knew 
that unauthorised transactions had already taken place. There was evidence of 
deliberate wrongdoing and deception on Mr Ps part, and it was reasonably 
foreseeable to the bank that embezzlement and consequential losses would flow 
from a failure to freeze the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the comments Mr R has made in responding to my provisional 
decision, but Im still not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to require Clydesdale 
to take any further action to resolve this complaint. Im satisfied that it has already done 
enough by refunding the £25,000 that Mr P removed from Cs account and offering £1,000 
by way of compensation. Ill explain why below.
It is not in dispute that, but for a bank error/s, the alleged embezzlement could not have 
occurred. As such, I dont consider it necessary to explore the error/s in detail. I consider it 
fair that the bank reimburses C and offers some compensation (as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I am satisfied that £1,000 is fair compensation which is in line with the 
awards this Service makes).
But Im still not persuaded that the consequential losses C is claiming for were reasonably foreseeable to the bank, or that the bank knew or ought to have known that Mr P would 
embezzle funds from Cs account as a direct result of its action or inaction. I will focus on the 
banks failure to freeze the account in early June 2019 because it was at this point that Mr R 
says Mr P had been making payments without his approval, and this was the banks last 
opportunity to prevent the alleged embezzlement.
Mr R has said that when he spoke to Clydesdale in early June 2019, it became apparent to 
both parties that Mr P had been making approved payments via an incorrect payment 
channel, and making payments which Mr R had not approved via internet banking. And I 
think it ought to have been foreseeable to the bank that Mr P may make further payments 
out of Cs account via telephone/internet banking and/or without Mr Rs approval if his 
access to telephone/internet banking was not revoked and/or Cs account was not frozen. 
But theres no suggestion or evidence to indicate that the payments Mr P had made were not 
legitimate payments made on Cs behalf. And theres no allegation that Mr P had 
misappropriated funds from Cs account before. I think that the chain of events which began 
because Clydesdale didnt freeze Cs account were particularly unusual. Im not persuaded 
that Clydesdale knew or ought to have known that there was the potential for embezzlement 
if it did not revoke Mr Ps access to telephone/internet banking and/or freeze Cs account  
not least because Mr P had been using Cs account for some time without embezzling funds.
So, I still dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require Clydesdale to reimburse the 
consequential losses C has claimed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc has already 
done enough to resolve this complaint. I do not instruct it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman