DRN-2412112
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)
when his boiler broke down.
What happened
Mr G has had a BG HomeCare One policy covering two tenanted properties since 2017.
This policy provided cover for the boilers and controls and included an annual service. It also
provided him with a Gas Safety Certificate and a gas cooker safety check and certificate.
Just after a new tenant had started to move in to one of Mr Gs properties, the boiler broke
down. The tenants moving in had to be postponed while the boiler issue was sorted out as
there was no hot water or heating.
Mr G phoned BG on 23 November 2019 to arrange for an engineer to visit. He says he was
told by BGs agent that an engineer couldnt visit for six days due to a shortage of engineers.
It would only be able to send an engineer sooner if there was a vulnerable person in the
property.
Mr G couldnt wait six days, as his tenant was expecting to fully move in and had had to find
alternative temporary accommodation. Mr G therefore had to spend a considerable amount
of time trying to find a boiler engineer who could come sooner. After contacting many
engineers who werent available, he eventually found two who could come, both of whom
advised that the boiler would need to be replaced. Mr G therefore had to buy a new boiler
which costs him £2,025.
Mr G emailed BG on 24 November to complain. He received an email acknowledging receipt
of his email, and giving him a reference number, but he hasnt heard any more.
Mr G says that BG has failed to deliver the service he took out insurance for. Hes referred to
BG advertisements from 2010 onwards which give customers the impression that they can
expect a visit from an engineer on the same day that a problem is reported. Hes drawn
attention to the fact that the Advertising Standards Authority has been critical of such
advertisements. He says he was influenced by such advertisements when he was
considering cover for his rental properties to give him peace of mind. He says that his
insurance was mis-sold by BG.
Mr Gs position is that it was unreasonable for BG not to be able to send an engineer for six
days. He acknowledges that its reasonable for BG to prioritise its service to those who are
vulnerable, but that to leave those who are not vulnerable to wait for six days without heating
or hot water isnt reasonable. He says that as a landlord he has a legal obligation to provide
these basic facilities to his tenants. He says that BG is in breach of his agreement with him.
He wants BG to reimburse to him all the premiums hes paid for his two properties,
amounting to £1,472.12 including 8% interest, on the basis that hes been paying for a
service that BG cant provide.
Although BG hasnt commented on Mr Gs complaint in a final response letter, its been
given the opportunity by our investigator to state its position.
BG says it has no record of Mr Gs call to it on 23 November. Nor do its records show any
contact from him since he booked an annual service visit earlier in 2019. As to his email of
complaint, its said that this was sent to the incorrect email address.
BG has said that it doesnt provide a time scale for its engineers visits. Its also said that it
wouldnt refund all premiums paid for one failed claim.
Mr G brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt consider that BG had
acted unreasonably in the circumstances. Mr G didnt accept our investigators view and
asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman. His complaint was
passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Gs complaint.
In response to my provisional decision I received further information from BG about the 
premium payments Mr G had made for cover for the policy year beginning 22 May 2019. It 
didnt agree with my provisional decision but offered Mr G £50 compensation. Mr G has 
provided further information in response. He has rejected BGs offer of £50.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account the responses I received to my provisional decision, Im 
continuing to uphold Mr Gs complaint but to vary my award and Ill give my reasons.
Although BG doesnt have any record of Mr Gs phone call on 23 November 2019 seeking
an engineer, Im satisfied that Mr G did make such a call. There would be no reason for him
not to call BG in these circumstances, as having his boiler repaired if he needed to was the
main purpose of his taking out his policy, which only covered him for his boiler.
Ive looked at Mr Gs policy to see what it says about timescales. Theres no reference to it
committing to attending within any particular time. Its advertisements might give that
impression, but they have been criticised for doing so. The actual contractual commitment is
much more vague. The policy states:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time,
unless something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case
well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can
visit.
I accept, and Mr G accepts, that its reasonable for BG to prioritise those who are
vulnerable. But I dont accept that those who arent vulnerable, but still without
heating or hot water, should be required to wait for six days before an engineers
visit. I dont consider that to be reasonable time. And I dont think its reasonable to
say that a shortage of engineers is beyond BGs control. Mr G has paid for a service
that he hasnt received. I think it was reasonable of him to have contacted other
engineers who could visit sooner.
As I consider that BGs failure to respond to Mr Gs breakdown within a reasonable
time has led to him having to suffer a considerable degree of inconvenience andupset in having to make alternative arrangements for other engineers and ultimately
a new boiler, I think that BG needs to do something to put this right.
Mr G has asked for all his premiums to be reimbursed. I dont consider this to be
reasonable or proportionate. He has had the benefit of cover for two properties
since 2017. Hes received annual services and Gas Safety Certificates as part of
these policies as well as knowing that were a problem to occur, BG would be
required to come and put it right. The fact that on the one occasion when Mr G
called on BGs services it wasnt able to provide a timely service doesnt mean that
this would always happen. BG doesnt guarantee that it will offer a timely service
100% of the time. On the basis of a single unsatisfactory claim I cant say that Mr
Gs policy was mis-sold.
As BG didnt provide Mr G with the service I consider it was reasonable for him to
expect on this occasion, I think it would be fair and reasonable for BG to reimburse
to Mr G the premium he paid for his policy for 2019 for the property in question. 
Mr Gs policy year started on 22 May 2019 and his premiums were paid in monthly 
instalments. BG provided him with an annual service and a Gas Safety Certificate on 11 
July. He cancelled the policy in relation to the property in question on 2 January 2020 having 
paid seven instalments of premium totalling £123.90. I consider it would be fair and 
reasonable for BG to reimburse this sum to Mr G, and that it also pay him a further £100 for 
the trouble and upset he suffered.
I should also address Mr Gs complaint about BGs handling of his initial complaint.
Unfortunately, Im not able to address this as complaint handling is not a regulated
activity and therefore falls outside the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman
Service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint and  I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to reimburse to him the sum of £123.90 he paid in premium for the policy 
year 2019/20 and a further £100 compensation for trouble and upset..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman