DRN-3204304
The complaint
Mr H complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) are treating him as having defaulted 
on a personal loan, even though theyve not been able to provide the appropriate evidence 
to prove this after several years. Mr H doesnt think RBS have acted appropriately when 
asking for repayment of the outstanding debt.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, setting out whatd happened, and what I 
thought about that. Ive copied the relevant sections below, and they form part of this final 
decision. 
Mr H says the first time hes aware RBS asked for a repayment of a loan was in 
December 2016. He understands RBS say the loan was taken out in 1993 but says that 
cant be true  and having been told about it, hes been in contact including going to the 
branch asking for a copy of the credit agreement. Mr H says hes made complaints, theyre 
upheld with compensation paid, but then RBS go back to treating him as defaulting on the 
account again. Mr H says in the statutory context of section 78 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 that cant be correct. Mr H said RBS have threatened enforcement measures, such as 
reporting to the credit reference agencies (CRAs), removing money from a savings account 
he has (known as the right of set off), and on three occasions have asked a debt collection 
agency (DCA) to get repayment of the debt.
Mr H says on 4 December 2018 its the first time they told him they couldnt locate a copy of 
the credit agreement. So, he contacted us. Mr H said he wanted RBS to stop treating him 
like hes in default on an account and accept they have some responsibility as they claimed 
to have a document but now dont. He wanted them to stop pretending theyre dealing with 
the matter, by saying theyve not been able to reach an agreement with him  but havent 
contacted him. He also wanted them to stop acting like theyre above the law when theyre 
not.
RBS issued a number of responses relevant to this complaint, in summary they said:
The loan isnt being reported to the CRAs, but a default notice has now been issued 
so if Mr H doesnt meet his obligations then they may report this to the CRAs in the 
future.
Although they dont have a copy of the credit agreement, this only means they cant 
enforce the debt, but Mr H should still make payments as the agreement is valid.
They cant explain whats happened to the loan agreement, but at the time Mr H 
applied for the loan it was RBSs process to give a copy of the agreement to the 
customer. They said sorry if Mr H didnt get one.
Their terms and conditions allowed them to remove money from Mr Hs savings 
account under the right of set off if he owed them money.
They paid compensation for Mr Hs time in pursuing the matter and refunding his call 
costs.
Unhappy with this Mr H asked our service to look into things. An Investigator decided we 
didnt have authority to look into some elements of Mr Hs complaint. But, could look into 
whatd happened since December 2018. Those issues were then looked into, and an 
Investigator felt RBS didnt need to do anymore.
Mr H didnt agree with this. In short, he felt RBSs actions were in a cycle of making a threat, 
he raises a complaint, they say sorry  and then it starts all over again. So, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
We passed Mr Hs detailed reply to RBS and asked them to reply to the questions hed 
asked along with our own. RBS didnt provide a full reply, but said theyd never sold the debt 
on to a DCA, instead they were acting on behalf of RBS. They also said theyd provided all 
the evidence they could to our service. Due to that, Ive gone ahead and considered the 
case.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Im required to take into account all relevant laws (including 
those Mr H has mentioned) as well as regulations, industry guidance, and best practice at 
the time. But Im not bound by those things. My overarching remit is to consider matters on a 
fair and reasonable basis. 
This also means Im not required to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
issue thats been raised by either party. Instead, Ill focus on the crux of the issue as I see it 
and my informal remit allows me to do this.
To start with, Ill set out what Im not considering as part of this complaint. This is relevant 
context to the issue I can consider for Mr H  and the outcome Im reaching. Issues Im not considering
During his complaints, Mr H has detailed concerns regarding RBS using the right of set off 
as an enforcement activity. Mr H has also talked about whether the loan is unenforceable or 
not. I can see he knows our service cant decide these points, as theyre for a court to 
consider, so I mention them only for completeness.
Mr H complained to RBS and received final response letters relevant to this complaint on:
21 December 2017
3 / 18 July 2018 (the same letter has been provided to our service with both of these 
dates)
27 November 2018
Each of those letters gave a six-month time limit for Mr H to get in touch, and we didnt hear 
from him within that time. Hes accepted we cant look into these complaints, and this 
decision isnt deciding that. But I mention these because, in each of these complaints, RBS 
have accepted theyve made some errors relating to this loan  and in the first two letters 
have recalled his debt from a DCA due to those errors. The last letter deals with not 
actioning Mr Hs section 78 request properly.
Issues I can consider
Mr H raised further complaints, receiving final response letters from RBS on:
8 April 2019
3 May 2019
Across these two letters RBS say, amongst other things, Mr Hs loan isnt enforceable 
because they cant find the credit agreement, but hes still required to pay it  because he 
still owes the money. They say a default notice was issued in February 2019, and although 
theyre not reporting anything to the CRAs, they may in future if Mr H doesnt start paying 
the loan. RBS also say theyll take all action theyre legally entitled to do if he doesnt. 
Finally, RBS also paid Mr H £180 in total for customer service-related issues.
Its December 2018 the first time Mr H is told RBS dont have a copy of the loan agreement. 
Until that time Mr H has said he expected them to provide it, because theyd told him they 
were in the process of doing so.
As this has been going on for a long time, I think this will have come as a considerable shock 
to Mr H.
RBS have said theyve provided all the information they can to us. Having reviewed this, its 
unclear to me why its taken so long for them to confirm they dont have a copy of the 
agreement. RBS telling Mr H theyll provide the information, and then taking so long not to 
do so, will naturally have an effect on the actions Mr H may have considered during this 
time. 
It appears during this time Mr Hs debt was passed to a DCA to collect. RBS didnt sell it, so 
theyre effectively responsible for the actions of any DCAs  as theyre acting as RBSs 
agent.As Ive mentioned above, these actions were the subject of separate complaints I cant 
consider. But, what I can see is that it seems RBS didnt tell the DCAs about Mr H being in 
dispute over the loan as theyve upheld these complaints. Again, I cant consider this. But, I 
think this is relevant to the impact RBSs admission in December 2018 that they dont have a 
copy of the agreement had. This isnt an argument Mr H could have made earlier, so Im 
satisfied its appropriate for me to take into account, and Ill come back to this at the end of 
my decision.
Ive noted Mr H doesnt think our service needs to decide whether he took out the loan or not 
 but to answer the remaining issues, I think I do. I say that because, if its clear Mr H 
doesnt owe RBS any money, then their actions would be extremely unfair and likely worthy 
of quite significant compensation.
In short, I think RBS have enough to reasonably believe Mr H owes the money theyre 
asking him to repay. I say this because theyve provided a screenshot to show the balance 
outstanding. Its recorded against Mr Hs personal name and appears to be a personal loan 
 rather than a business loan which Mr H has suggested it could have been.
With that in mind, then it seems reasonable they ask him to repay anything hes not already 
repaid  given Im reasonably satisfied Mr H owns this loan. This means, from 
December 2018 onwards when RBS first told Mr H the debt wasnt enforceable, itd be fair 
and reasonable to take certain actions  such as reporting the debt to a CRA if Mr H didnt 
start making repayments amongst other things. Ultimately, RBS is required to report true and 
correct information to the CRAs  so, being satisfied Mr H has an outstanding debt, they can 
report the status of that debt. Theres also nothing wrong in asking Mr H for payment, either 
directly, or through a DCA.
So, they can take action to recover the money, as its properly owed. But, they werent 
allowed to enforce the debt.
Our Investigator provided some information from the regulators rules which broadly aligned 
with what Ive said above. Mr H said these points were replaced by later case law, which 
says an exempt debtor could not be labelled a defaulter during any period in which 
Parliament has decreed that he or she is exempt from paying.
Ive noted Mr Hs point on this issue, but as Ive set out above, my remit is to consider things 
on a fair and reasonable basis. Based on what Ive seen I think Mr H does owe RBS 
repayments for this loan  so on a fair and reasonable basis, I think its appropriate for RBS 
to treat him as though he owes the money.
Because of that, it means Im satisfied the actions theyve taken since December 2018 are 
reasonable. So, if they did report the default to the CRAs then I think thatd be fair, and I 
also think its fair they asked DCAs to get in touch and ask for repayment. As Ive concluded 
RBS are allowed to ask Mr H for repayment of the debt, I cant tell them theyre not allowed 
to take actions along those lines.
As set out above RBS cant provide a copy of the loan agreement and I understand RBS 
have said the debt isnt enforceable. As previously explained, whether the loan is legally 
binding and enforceable is a matter that only a court can decide.  Mr H has also questioned 
whether the right of set off is fair.
The right of set off is where a financial business such as RBS, is owed money by one of their 
customers such as Mr H. Theres a number of rules around this, but broadly it allows RBS to 
remove money from one of Mr Hs accounts thats in credit, to pay for an account thats in 
debit.Ive noted Mr H had concerns over this. As hes said, and Ive set out above, I cant decide if 
this amounts to enforcement activity. But, I can consider whether its fair. RBS terms and 
conditions do say they might invoke the right of set off in Mr Hs situation. So, given thats 
the agreement hes signed up to, I cant say theyd be acting unfairly in saying they might do 
so. I understand, currently, theyve not done this. So, if they were to do so later down the 
line, and Mr H felt this was done so unfairly, hed be entitled to raise a new complaint about 
it.
Summary
Overall, Ive found that RBS have treated Mr H fairly since December 2018 when they told 
him they didnt have a copy of the loan agreement. But I think the impact of how he was 
treated before that was then more keenly felt in December 2018 when he was told they 
didnt have the agreement hed been expecting them to provide for at least two years.
In responding to Mr Hs complaints in April and May 2019 they said they were going to pay 
him £180, of which £100 was compensation, and £80 was for costs. I think RBS should 
increase this figure to a total of £400  so, pay Mr H a further £220 in settlement of this case 
 to fairly reflect the distress he felt at finding out RBS didnt have the agreement hed been 
asking about for so long.
Responses to my provisional decision
RBS said they agreed to pay a further £220 and said £180 has already been paid.
Mr H provided a detailed response, which Ive summarised. He said he felt Id not dealt with 
the course of conduct complaint hed raised. Specifically, that RBS had kept passing on his 
details to a DCA but without explaining the dispute that sat behind the account. He said he 
knew I couldnt consider them individually because of the six-month rule but wanted to see if 
I could consider them cumulatively  and felt I should be able to as the continued action 
negated the previous apology theyd given. 
He also said he didnt think my point about the loan being in his name was demonstrative of 
it being a personal loan, as he had business accounts in his sole name as well  but said he 
wouldnt labour this point because it makes no appreciable difference overall. Mr H 
emphasised theres only one party in default in this relationship, and its not him  and says 
RBS have refused to negotiate on any reasonable level.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs frustration about the outcome Ive reached, and that Im not able to 
comment on all matters he clearly wanted me to. I think given the constraints of the rules 
that I have to apply, I cant consider things in the way he wanted  but what I have done is 
consider the impact of RBSs actions after eventually telling him they didnt have a copy of 
the agreement.
In respect of the loan I have noted Mr Hs comments on this. Im still satisfied the screenshot 
Ive looked at is enough for RBS to reasonably believe the loan is a personal one, and 
theyre entitled to ask Mr H for repayment of it. But if further information comes to light later 
on (that wasnt available at the time of this decision) that suggests the loan isnt a personal 
one  then Id expect RBS to consider that.And Ive noted Mr Hs comments about RBS being the party in default and refusing to 
negotiate with him on any reasonable level.
Overall, I remain satisfied that £400 total compensation is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr H a total 
of £400 compensation. They can deduct any payments already made from this figure.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman