DRN-2314245
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain about the scale of the increase to their whole of life policy premiums 
following a review by The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
Scottish Provident.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B took out a joint whole of life policy (the policy) in June 2009. It was a regular 
premium, unit linked, reviewable, whole of life policy which provided a sum assured on the 
second death of the policyholders. Mrs and Mr Bs main reason for taking out the policy was 
for protection against inheritance tax (IHT) liability and it was purchased on the advice of an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA).
Following a review by Scottish Provident on the policys ten year anniversary, Mrs and Mr B 
were told that if they wanted to keep the same level of cover of £1,200,000 theyd have to 
increase their monthly premiums from £354 to £1,912. If they chose to maintain premiums at 
£354, the cover would have to be reduced to £291,715. Alternatively, they could keep the 
same level of cover with the same premium but the increased cost of cover would be funded 
by using the underlying fund  once this was exhausted, the policy would lapse.
Mrs and Mr B complained to Scottish Provident. They say the policy was made unaffordable, 
so they cancelled it and received the surrender value. Mrs and Mr B said they were aware 
that it was likely theyd have an increase to their premiums at the review date. But they felt 
the scale of the increase was beyond reasonable and didnt consider this was treating a 
customer fairly. Mrs and Mr B also said if the scale of the increase had been made clear 
from the outset, they would never have taken the policy out. 
 
Scottish Provident said it was established at the ten year review stage that the premiums 
were no longer sufficient to support the level of cover being provided to Mrs and Mr B. And 
that it had correctly carried out the review in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with this explanation, Mrs and Mr B brought the complaint to our service. 
In brief, our investigator noted that Scottish Provident hadnt been responsible for the sale of 
the policy, so said he could only look at whether it carried out the review in line with its terms 
and conditions. And reviewing the documents given to Mrs and Mr B at the start of the policy 
such as the key facts document, our investigator didnt think Scottish Provident had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said that due to the scale of the increase in premiums, the 
policy wasnt fit for purpose. They considered Scottish Provident were deliberately increasing 
premiums, so as to drive policyholders to cancel the policy at a time when it was more likely 
there would be a claim. Mrs and Mr B wanted a full refund of the all the premiums theyd 
paid, as they would never have purchased the policy knowing the level of the increases. So 
the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mrs and Mr B have strong feelings about this complaint. They have 
provided detailed arguments to support their case which I can confirm Ive read and carefully 
considered. However, I trust that Mrs and Mr B will not take the fact that my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in less detail, as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised, but instead to 
set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching it. I'll also mention at this stage, that where 
there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities.
Its important to explain that Mrs and Mr Bs adviser (IFA) was responsible for ensuring that 
they fully understood the terms and conditions of the policy, including the reviewability of the 
premiums and the implications of this. In this context, Scottish Providents responsibility was 
limited to providing clear and accurate information about the policy, and to then administer it 
in line with the terms and conditions. Ive seen nothing to suggest it did not meet these 
requirements.
The personalised key features (key facts) produced by Scottish Provident provided Mrs and 
Mr B with the relevant information regarding how long they could maintain the current 
amount assured at the current premium. I should also mention here that the original 
premium was set at a much lower rate of £183 but as our investigator said, this was before 
the medical underwriting was completed. This quote was increased once this was done and 
from the start of the policy the premiums were set at £354 each month. 
The key facts also provided the information about what Mrs and Mr B need to do if they 
wanted to maintain the same level of cover in the future. The key facts made it clear that 
when the policy was reviewed after ten years, it was likely to lead to an increase in the 
monthly premiums. This is the standard way these policies work and this was explained in 
the documents produced by Scottish Provident.
Mrs and Mr B acknowledge they were aware at the outset that the premiums were likely to 
increase, but its the extent of this rise theyre unhappy about. They say that the initial 
paperwork didnt give them enough warning about the likely scale of the increase. But its 
difficult to predict what the cost of cover will be at any given time. This is because it will be 
based on a number of variables such as the age of the policyholders, the assumed future 
rate of growth, charges and the mortality and morbidity rates.  This was explained in the 
Standard Providents terms and conditions document. And its to be expected that life cover 
premiums will increase over time. 
I can also see that Mrs and Mr B took out the policy on a maximum basis. As Scottish 
Provident explained to them, this type of cover offers policyholders the highest possible sum 
assured for the lowest premium. This meant that whilst they did have a guaranteed period 
where the policy premiums wouldnt change, when it did, it was always likely the premium 
would need to be increased to maintain the chosen sum assured. I think Standard 
Providents documentation was clear, fair and not misleading in this regard.
Mrs and Mr B say they want the ombudsmans decision to consider the percentage increase 
theyve calculated, as unfair. Theyve calculated this to be more than a 540% increase. But 
as our investigator said the increase is around 440%. I think the higher figure arrived at by 
Mrs and Mr B may be as a result of not deducting the original value. 
Nonetheless, I accept the increase from £354 to £1,912 was substantial. But the scale of the 
increase alone isnt enough to say the increase is unfair. The context of this is that from the outset Scottish Providents documentation told Mrs and Mr B the policy premiums were likely 
to increase following the review. And that this increase would be calculated in line with the 
terms of the policy, which set out clearly the type of things that would be taken into account. 
Scottish Provident also recently rechecked the increase for accuracy. So all in all, I consider 
Scottish Provident have acted reasonably and fairly in this regard.
I would also like to reiterate the point that Scottish Provident wasnt involved in the 
conversations around the purpose of the life policy. So it could not have known the specific 
reason Mrs and Mr B took out this contract including they needed it to cover any IHT liability. 
If Mrs and Mr B feel they were mis-sold or misled in this respect, then they should complain 
to the IFA that advised them.
Finally, Mrs and Mr B have made a general point about why they think Scottish Provident 
may have increased their policy premiums along with other policyholders. But as our 
investigator said, these general points are a matter for the regulator. My role is to decide 
complaints on individual merits. And for all the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied 
Scottish Provident has acted fairly and reasonably in this particular case.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman