DRN-3590946
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy how Kennet Equipment Leasing Limited (Kennet) dealt with the settlement 
of a hire purchase agreement he had with them, after the trailer hed been supplied with had 
been stolen.
What happened
Around April 2021, Mr J was supplied with a trailer through a hire purchase agreement with 
Kennet. In October 2021, he contacted Kennet to let them know the trailer had been stolen, 
and he wanted to claim on the insurance that formed part of the agreement. Kennet 
explained that, although Mr J had told them he wanted the optional insurance, they hadnt 
applied this to the agreement. They apologised for this error, and settled the agreement, so 
Mr J had no ongoing liability.
Mr J wasnt happy with this, as hed been paying for a trailer that he wouldnt now own. And 
he thought that Kennet should provide a replacement trailer, and he said this is what had 
happened when hed had trailers stolen in the past. So, he thought he wouldve been offered 
a replacement if the insurance had been in place, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said theyd reviewed the insurance that shouldve been in place, and Kennet 
was the insured party, not Mr J. So, had the insurance been in place, the insurer wouldve 
asked Kennet how they wanted to settle the claim. And Kennet wouldve been entitled to a 
cash settlement instead of a replacement item. 
So, the investigator didnt think Kennet had done anything wrong by accepting a cash 
settlement, as this is what wouldve happened if the insurance had been in place. The 
investigator also said that, as Mr J had use of the trailer before it was stolen, they didnt think 
it was fair for Kennet to refund the payments Mr J had made during this period.
Finally, as the insurance didnt require Kennet to opt for a replacement item, the investigator 
didnt think they were responsible for covering the costs of Mr J hiring a replacement trailer.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Kennet had failed to set up the insurance 
as requested, and this error has left him out of pocket by having to replace the trailer. And he 
thought it was the normal practice for the insurer to replace the stolen item, as this is what 
had happened before. And, as the insurer has always dealt with him in relation to previous 
claims, he said it shouldve been his decision to take a cash settlement or not.
Whats more, Mr J has said that, when the agreement with Kennet came to an end, he 
wouldve owned the trailer. So, hed lost out in the payments hed made to Kennet, as a 
proportion of these went towards the value of the trailer, not the interest. And, had this claim 
been made on the insurance, a replacement trailer wouldve been provided almost 
immediately, so there wouldnt have been any replacement hire costs.
Because of this, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr J was supplied with goods under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
It's not disputed that Mr J asked for insurance to be added to the agreement, and Kennet 
didnt do this. And, if the insurance had been in place, then a claim wouldve been made for 
the theft. So, in considering if Kennet have acted reasonably, Ill be considering what would 
most likely have happened if a claim had been made under the insurance policy that 
shouldve been in place.
Mr J has commented on what happened on previous similar claims hed made. While these 
comments are noted, each case is treated individually and on its own merits. And insurance 
claims dont set legal precedents as to how future claims must be dealt with and settled. This 
is determined by the wording of the particular policy in place, which may change from claim 
to claim. As such, I wont be commenting specifically on any previous claims, as I dont 
consider these have any bearing on what might or might not have happened in this instance.
In their information to customers about the insurance, Kennet explain there are two possible 
outcomes when it comes to the claim being paid out. These are:
if the covered equipment is considered to be irreparably damaged or lost; it will be 
valued on a full replacement costs basis; OR
if the covered equipment is totally destroyed or lost and we choose not to replace 
the equipment [the insurer] will pay to us the outstanding amount of the agreement 
excluding any interest, maintenance or VAT.
I dont doubt that, had Mr J been given the option of a cash settlement or replacement of the 
goods, he wouldve taken the latter. However, its clear from this information that the insured 
is Kennet, not Mr J. And its their choice to either have the goods replaced or accept a cash 
settlement. Whats more, in an email dated 4 July 2022, Mr J has confirmed that, when hes 
had trailers stolen in the past, they were replaced with Kennets agreement.
So, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Kennet were able to make the choice under 
the terms of the policy as to how they accepted a settlement. And Ive seen nothing to show 
me they were obliged to ask Mr J what he wanted.
Mr J believed the insurance was in place, and hes not said he didnt receive details about 
this. As such, Im also satisfied he had the opportunity to read the information provided by 
Kennet, and if he didnt accept the terms, he couldve asked Kennet to cancel the insurance 
and take out a separate policy himself. So, by not cancelling Kennets insurance and 
reinsuring the trailer, its reasonable for me to conclude that Mr J accepted the terms offered. 
Which included that it was Kennets choice on how to settle any claim.Given this, while I appreciate that, in retrospect, Mr J isnt happy that the terms allowed 
Kennet to make a decision he wouldve ideally liked to make; I cant say that Kennet did 
anything wrong by clearing the outstanding balance on Mr Js agreement, which is what 
wouldve happened if theyd chosen the cash settlement option under the insurance.
Whats more, Ive seen nothing in the insurance that says Mr J would be refunded any 
deposit hed paid, that he would be refunded any part of the payments hed made to account 
for the fact this was a hire purchase agreement, or that the costs of hiring a replacement 
trailer would be covered. So, I wouldnt expect Kennet to have done this when settling his 
agreement.
In conclusion, had Mr J been able to claim under the insurance he thought was in place, 
Kennet were always able to take a cash settlement and clear his outstanding agreement. 
And Mr J wouldve been left in a situation where he would have needed to source a new 
trailer and arrange financing for it. So, hes not in any different a situation to what he 
wouldve been had Kennet not made a mistake in setting up the insurance policy.
Because of this, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr J, I wont be 
asking Kennet to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Kennet Equipment Leasing 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman