DRN-2670669
The complaint
Mr G complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Pensionhelp Limited 
(Pensionhelp) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his preserved benefits of 
£354,928 in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). Hes worried that the advice was unsuitable after being contacted by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) regarding its concerns about British Steel pension transfers.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would be examining
options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits,
one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory
fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes
when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit
accrual from 31 March 2017. In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a
Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by 
the Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to 
set up and sponsor a new defined benefit pension scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain 
conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
These changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr G, under the Time to
Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options regarding their 
preserved benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by a deadline in December 2017  those
that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the
PPF. 
Mr Gs preserved benefits in the BSPS were as follows:
He had accrued 26 years and 9 months qualifying service between 4 June 1990 and 
31 March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to his 
final salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving 
the scheme on 31 March 2017, his annual scheme pension was £14,014;
The scheme pension comprised several elements, each part of which would be 
revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age 
of 65 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
While the scheme normal retirement age was 65, he was entitled to draw benefits 
from his Protected Pension Age (PPA) of 50 because he joined the BSPS before                               
6 April 2006;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension at 65 was £23,248 or a reduced 
pension of £15,407 plus tax-free cash of £102,715. And at 55 it was £12,598 or a 
reduced pension of £8,909 plus tax-free cash of £59,395;
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions of £45,268 plus interest at 3% 
per year compound and a 50% spouses pension would be provided  after 
retirement, a potential lump sum equivalent to his remaining annual pension between 
the date of death and five years after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses 
pension thereafter calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken by Mr G at retirement; 
The provision of a dependants allowance for any qualifying dependants calculated 
as five sixths of the spouse's pension with this amount being shared between 
dependants; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his preserved benefits was £354,928 which had 
been reduced by 5% due to the BSPS being in deficit.
Mr G was concerned what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS. He contacted a financial advisory business (which I shall 
call Firm D) for advice on his options. Firm D introduced Mr G to Pensionhelp to specifically 
provide advice regarding his preserved benefits in the BSPS. 
Pensionhelp recorded the following information about Mr G and his wifes circumstances in 
September 2017:
He was 45, in good health and employed by Tata Steel on a gross annual salary of 
about £35,000;
His wife was 45, in good health and employed as a shop assistant on a gross annual 
salary of about £12,000;
They had two financially dependant children aged 13 and 17;
Their assets totalled £185,000 which comprised the marital home valued at £180,000 
and cash savings of about £5,000, which had been set aside as an emergency fund;
Their liabilities consisted of an outstanding repayment mortgage of about £160,000 
on the marital home which was due to be repaid in 15 years time (when Mr G and 
his wife would be 60). 
Their joint net annual income covered outgoings with minimal disposable income 
available;
In addition to his preserved benefits in the BSPS, he was building up retirement 
benefits in the Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme and had been since April 2017  he and his employer were, in total, contributing 9% of his pensionable 
salary into that scheme and it was then valued at about £3,000;
They were both on course to receive the full State pension at their State Pension Age 
at 67; and
He had a conservative risk profile which was a score of 4 on a scale of 1 to 10 
where 1 was lowest risk and 10 highest risk.
Pensionhelp recorded that Mr G had three broad objectives regarding his preserved benefits 
in the BSPS, which can be summarised as follows:
To obtain the maximum tax-free cash available at 55 to repay the outstanding 
mortgage remaining at that time;
To have flexibility in terms of the timing, amount and regularity of income between 55 
and 60 and thereafter, although when he did fully retire, he and his wife required a 
minimum net annual income of around £16,800 in 2017 terms to support their desired 
standard of living in retirement; and
 
To use any remaining value available on his death as a legacy for his wife and then 
children.
Critical yield 
Pensionhelp calculated the following critical yield figures based on a transfer value of 
£354,928 assuming it was invested in a SIPP or the PPF:
Receiving
SchemeAt age 55 
based on a 
full pensionAt age 55 based on a 
reduced pension 
and maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 
based on a 
full pensionAt age 65 based on 
a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-
free cash
SIPP 10.97% 8.14% 7.22% 5.76%
PPF 6.97% 6.57% 4.60% 4.33%
Pensionhelps advice to Mr G
In November 2017, Pensionhelp issued its suitability report to Mr G. This set out its 
recommendation that he transfer the value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS to a SIPP. 
In explaining its reasons for recommending the pension transfer, its adviser stated:
You require greater flexibility in how you can take your pension benefits, including 
the ability to take the maximum available PCLS [tax-free cash] at age 55. You are 
prepared to take a degree of investment risk and have confirmed that the income 
guarantee as offered by the Scheme is not your main priority. You would also like to 
restructure the death benefits into lump sum form to ensure that the full value of the 
fund is available in the event of your death which gives the option to use for income 
rather than the compulsory nature of using it as income under the scheme rules.
I recommend that you transfer out of the British Steel Pension Scheme into [new 
SIPP] and invest the benefits into the [SIPP providers] Moderate Portfolio.I recommend the route outlined above for the following reasons:
Your existing Scheme pension does not meet your preferences in terms of 
how you wish to be able to access your pension fund in retirement. You wish 
to have full flexibility with your pension as opposed to trying to replicate the 
Scheme benefits, being able to take the PCLS and a flexible income as and 
when required from age 55.
You will be able to take higher levels of income in the early years of your 
retirement and then reduce it in later years, when your State Pension 
becomes payable. This flexibility is not available to you from the Scheme. You 
are aware that taking a higher PCLS and income in the early years will have 
an impact on the pension/income you will receive in the future.
You require the ability to vary any income payments to suit your needs and 
take account of your other income and tax position. You wish to be able to 
access your pension fund at will, and you do not want a guaranteed pension 
income payable to you from the Scheme.
You would also like the potential to pass your pension funds onto your family 
eventually rather than be limited to the more restricted benefits paid by the 
Scheme on death. By transferring to a SIPP Plan, the full fund value is 
available as a potentially tax free (on death pre-75) lump sum death benefit 
compared to the Schemes reduced spouses pension which is taxable at your 
spouses marginal rate. Should your spouse also die prematurely, then the 
remaining fund can be passed to other named beneficiaries, whereas the 
Scheme pension would stop, except in the first five years.
The projected PCLS is substantially higher from the SIPP than the estimated 
PCLS available from the Scheme. You will be able to take an estimated PCLS 
of £83,100 from the [SIPP] at age 55 (based on the CETV of £354,928.21 and 
an investment growth rate of 2.25% per annum, compared to the Schemes 
estimated £59,395 and you would have to take the Scheme pension which is 
not your objective. The PCLS from the [SIPP] can either be taken as a tax 
efficient income stream, or, as a lump sum withdrawal to meet capital 
expenditure.
You would be free at any time to use some or all of your pension fund to 
provide you with a guaranteed income for your lifetime by purchasing a 
conventional annuity. Any such annuity could take into account annuity rates 
in force at the time of purchase and will also take into account your age and 
your health at the time that the annuity was purchased. You have stated 
however that you would not buy an annuity unless forced by circumstances at 
the time.
Transfer will meet your objectives without compromising your ability to meet 
your outgoings, the bulk of which can be met via your State Pensions. You 
therefore have the financial capacity to make this decision and have the 
attitude to taking risk for this to be appropriate.
You will take investment control of your pension and you would like to take a 
degree of risk to try and increase the value of your pension. You can tolerate 
a degree of losses and based on this view you have a suitable risk appetite 
for transfer. You are aware that you are taking on the investment risk and that if investment returns are poor that your eventual fund value could fall. I am 
recommending a fund that is in line with your attitude to risk.
The result from the Capacity for Loss Scoring shows that you have a 
medium capacity for loss, which means you can afford to take the risks 
associated with your chosen risk profile and can withstand a degree of 
underperformance.
The critical yields required to match the Scheme benefits are higher than the 
expected returns for a risk profile four investor and may not be achieved 
based on your attitude to risk. You would need to exceed the average returns 
to match the Scheme pension at ages 55 and 65 based on our assumptions. 
If you were simply looking to replicate the Scheme pension benefits then I 
would not recommend a transfer, however by transferring you can achieve 
your key priorities.
My understanding is that, whilst you may or may not replicate the full Scheme 
pension via purchase of a conventional annuity, replication of the Scheme 
benefits is not your objective and your main priority is flexibility in how you 
take your pension benefits. You would also like the option of a lump sum 
representing the full value from your pension fund to be paid in the event of 
your death, whenever that should occur. 
Based on our comparison of the Scheme benefits against flexible benefits at 
age 65, if you were to achieve a return of 4.41% per annum, the fund value 
would run out at age 98 based on a reduced pension plus PCLS. From age 
55, the fund value would run out at age 101 based on a reduced pension plus 
PCLS. We therefore believe that the CETV represents a fair exchange for the 
benefits that you are giving up.
Please note that the TVAS report makes assumptions, which are unlikely to 
behave in reality exactly how they are assumed to do by the TVAS system. 
You may therefore achieve the critical yield and still not replicate the Scheme 
benefits that you would be giving up on transfer.
In transferring to a SIPP Plan you will have a greater degree of control over 
the way in which benefits are taken. The Scheme will pay an increasing 
pension with a fixed reduced spouses pension, even if this is not what you 
require. With a SIPP Plan, when you come to your benefits, you can decide 
what options to include, whether to purchase an annuity, or you can take 
benefits in a more flexible way, and have the potential to leave a lump sum 
death benefit.
You are aware that on transfer you are taking on the investment risk, interest 
rate risk and longevity risk (the risk that you live too long and the pension fund 
runs out) and that if investment returns are poor that your income could fall. 
This is a risk that you are prepared to take.
Please note that it is not guaranteed that you will match the benefits from the 
Scheme and based on our analysis, you are unlikely to do so on an exact like for like 
basis. However, your overriding requirements are not to match the Scheme benefits 
i.e. prescribed income amount, reduced spouses pension, but to have greater 
flexibility over your benefits and to restructure the death benefits.We believe that you have the capacity to make this decision and the transfer value is 
a fair exchange for the benefits that you are giving up. We have therefore 
recommended transfer to meet your circumstances and priorities and believe this to 
be the most suitable route.
Mr G accepted Pensionhelps recommendation. The transfer value of £354,928 was invested 
in a new SIPP in the recommended providers moderate portfolio to align with Mr Gs 
recorded conservative risk profile. The adviser charge of £9,598.56 for the recommendation 
was deducted from the SIPP fund value and paid to Pensionhelp. 
Following the pension transfer, Firm D, who had introduced Mr G to Pensionhelp, took on 
the servicing of the SIPP. The total ongoing annual charges based on the SIPP fund value 
were as follows:
Ongoing adviser charge payable to Firm D  1%
SIPP charge  0.50% (on the first £25,000), 0.35% (on £25,000 to £100,000), 0.30% 
(on £100,000 to £500,000), 0.25% (on £500,000 to £1m). At the mid growth rate, the 
SIPP would be valued at £352,000 in 12 months time in November 2018. Based on 
that notional SIPP fund value, the annual charge would be 0.325%; and
Underlying fund charge  1.24%
So, in the early years, the total ongoing annual charge would be about 2.56% but would vary 
from year to year depending on the SIPP fund value.
Mr Gs complaint
In October 2020, Mr G contacted this service. He said that the FCA had contacted him 
regarding its concerns about British Steel pension transfers and, after completing its online 
advice checker, was worried the advice hed been given was unsuitable. He said that he first 
complained to Firm D. But it told him that it wasnt responsible for the suitability of the 
pension transfer advice because it didnt advise him. So it forwarded his complaint to 
Pensionhelp. Since Mr G didnt hear from Pensionhelp as quickly as he wanted, he asked for 
our help to go through the process of raising a complaint against it.
Mr G provided information about what happened in 2017 in the period leading up to the 
pension transfer. He said that it was a stressful time due to the uncertainty surrounding the 
security of his job and the value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was concerned 
that his employer would become insolvent, resulting in the loss of his job and the value of his 
preserved benefits being transferred to the PPF. He said he felt that the only viable option 
was a pension transfer. He initially discussed his concerns with Firm D which introduced him 
to Pensionhelp  and that Pensionhelp then advised him to transfer the value of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS to a SIPP. He was unsure whether the pension transfer was 
the right thing to do at the time but, based on what the FCA had recently told him, was 
worried it was unsuitable. Specifically, he told us that Pensionhelp:
gave him a list of generic risks of proceeding with the pension transfer without 
making these personal to his situation; 
failed to explain the value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS or the risks 
associated with the pension transfer;
didnt show him how the alternative options of the BSPS2 or PPF would enable him to meet his objectives; and
recommended a SIPP where the charges he pays are much higher than expected.
Before considering Mr Gs complaint, this service sent a copy of our completed complaint 
form to Pensionhelp to give it the opportunity to investigate and provide a final response.
Pensionhelps response to Mr Gs complaint
In December 2020, Pensionhelp issued its final response letter to Mr G. It clarified that it, 
and not Firm D, was responsible for the suitability of the pension transfer advice including 
the recommended product and initial fund selection. But it didnt uphold his complaint. Its 
position can be summarised, as follows:
In 2017, the BSPS was facing an uncertain future following Tata Steels 
announcement that it planned to restructure the scheme in order to keep its            
UK-based operations afloat;
Mr G wasnt keen on the alternative options of the BSPS2 or PPF;
In its Confidential Financial Review form, signed by Mr G in September 2017, his 
recorded objectives were to: (a) repay his outstanding mortgage at 55; (b) have 
flexibility in terms of the timing, amount and regularity of income between 55 and 60 
and thereafter; and (c) leave a potential legacy for his children, upon the second 
death;
Based on Mr Gs circumstances, it believed that  given the uncertainty surrounding 
Tata Steel and the BSPS  he had a need to repay as much of his mortgage as was 
possible in the circumstances at 55. This would potentially provide two main benefits, 
namely to release disposable income each month to help increase his emergency 
fund and to secure a permanent abode for his family. Furthermore, he didnt require 
pension income at 55  merely to access cash to repay his mortgage at that time, an 
option that wouldnt have been available under the BSPS2 or PPF;
The critical yield figures quoted in its suitability report, while aiming to put Mr G into 
an informed position, were redundant because of the way in which he intended to 
flexibly access his benefits. Based on its more appropriate analysis of sustainability 
of income from the SIPP, the likelihood of Mr G not being able to meet his stated 
target income, throughout his retirement, was likely to be on the low side, though this 
wasnt guaranteed;
As part of its analysis, it discounted the BSPS2 and PPF options because it wasnt 
possible to take tax-free cash at 55 without taking an income from those schemes. 
This would have potentially prejudiced Mr Gs objective of repaying his mortgage and 
securing maximum flexibility in terms of when, how much and how frequently he 
could draw retirement income. In addition, the early retirement factor applicable at 55 
under the BSPS2 and PPF was punitive and opting for either of those options 
wouldve led to the loss of ability to provide a death lump sum benefit for his 
beneficiaries;
This meant that the most feasible option available to meet Mr Gs objectives was a 
pension transfer, particularly his requirement to be able control his retirement 
income;The risks associated with the pension transfer were mitigated by the fact that Mr G 
was building up additional pension provision in the Tata Steel defined contribution 
pension scheme  in theory this meant that by 60 about 15 years worth of 
contributions wouldve been invested in that scheme, providing an additional pot of 
money to help maintain his desired standard of living in retirement; and
It was satisfied that it had acted in accordance with the FCAs requirements including 
COBS 19.1 at the time of its pension transfer advice.
Our investigators assessment
Dissatisfied with Pensionhelps response to this complaint, Mr G referred the matter back to 
this service. Our investigator thought that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld for the 
following reasons: 
His preserved benefits in the BSPS amounted to 26 years and 9 months 
pensionable service and so represented a significant proportion of his retirement 
provision;
He had limited other investments and savings upon which he could rely to support his 
desired standard of living in retirement and so had limited capacity for loss to absorb 
financial loss in connection with the value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS;
The critical yield figure of 8.14% per year (based on Mr G taking a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-free cash from the SIPP at 55 to meet his mortgage repayment 
objective) was likely unachievable and inconsistent with his risk profile. This was 
because it was significantly higher than the relevant discount rate of 3.7% per year 
published by this service and the FCA's projection rates for pensions, of 2% (low), 
5% (medium) and 8% (high) per year;
 
Most of Mr Gs objectives recorded by Pensionhelp were generic and stock motives 
such as early retirement and flexibility rather than being specific to his 
circumstances. The only objective that she could describe as specific was Mr Gs 
apparent wish to access tax-free cash at 55 to repay his mortgage. However, he was 
only 45 at the time of the advice, meaning he couldnt access tax-free cash for 
another 10 years under the SIPP. And there was no indication that he was struggling 
to maintain his monthly repayments and so, on the face of it, had no obvious reason 
as to why he needed to repay his mortgage at 55 rather than letting it run to its full 
term of 60;
This view was reinforced by Mr Gs confirmation that he wasnt struggling to meet 
monthly repayments at the time, and he felt that the objective of paying off his 
mortgage early was something that Pensionhelp tempted him with to encourage him 
to transfer. Therefore, she didnt think he needed to transfer in 2017 to meet that 
objective. And besides, his situation would likely be different in 10 years time and so 
his objectives and wider circumstances would need to be re-evaluated at that time 
when he could actually access his benefits. She noted that under the BSPS2 he 
wouldve retained the right to transfer at a later date when his retirement income and 
tax-free cash needs could be determined with greater accuracy than at 45;
She wasnt persuaded that there were any compelling reasons to justify why the 
pension transfer was beneficial for Mr G and she hadnt seen any evidence he didnt 
need the benefits in the format provided by either the BSPS2 or PPF;She concluded that the pension transfer was unsuitable because it was likely Mr G 
would be worse off by transferring to the SIPP based on the critical yield figures;
Had he been advised not to transfer into a SIPP, she didnt think he wouldve insisted 
otherwise. On balance, she thought he wouldve agreed with a recommendation to 
transfer to the BSPS2 had he been advised to do so; and 
To put things right, she recommended that Pensionhelp carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on 
how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that             
Mr G had instead transferred to the BSPS2 and would be a 20% income tax payer in 
retirement.
 
Pensionhelps response to our investigators assessment
Pensionhelp didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided substantial comments 
in response which can be summarised under separate headings, as follows:
 
Template response  The investigators assessment wasnt based on the facts of         
this complaint but instead on a previously used template because on two separate 
occasions she referred to a different financial business and Mr Gs risk profile changed 
mid-letter from moderate to medium risk, suggesting that the content had been lifted 
from a different, unconnected complaint. In addition, throughout her assessment, the 
investigator made unqualified assumptions without balance and objectivity;
Basis of Mr Gs complaint  The investigator accepted Mr Gs complaint at face value 
without challenging the veracity of his allegations. The content in the complaint letter it 
received from Mr G (which had been forwarded to it by Firm D) was substantially 
different to the content in the complaint form received from this service at a later date, 
which suggested hed sought or was given third party advice in the intervening period 
about how he should present this complaint. In any event, it thought that this complaint 
was generic and didnt specifically explain why he was unhappy with its advice. In its 
view, Mr G only complained in response to the FCAs call to action about British Steel 
pension transfers but his allegations about what it allegedly did wrong didnt correlate 
with the advice provided;
Mr Gs objectives  It didnt agree Mr Gs objectives were generic or stock motives, as 
stated by our investigator. COBS 9.2.2 required it to obtain such information as was 
necessary for it to understand the essential facts about him which it believed it did. No 
mention is made in the FCAs Handbook as to the level of specificity and in COBS 9.2.2 
(2) it goes on to state that the information regarding the investment objectives of a client 
must include, where relevant, information on the length of time for which he wished to 
hold the investment, his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the 
purposes of the investment  it believed that it met these expectations in full. It didnt 
understand why the investigator referred to Mr G struggling to repay his mortgage 
because it wasnt mentioned when it advised him. Based on the information recorded in 
its Confidential Financial Review form relating to Mr Gs objectives, it considered the 
flexible basis of the transfer compared favorably to the scheme pension by providing tax-
free cash at 55 to repay the mortgage and bridging income between early retirement and 
State pension age;
Critical yield figures  The investigator placed a great deal of weight on the critical yield 
figure of 8.14% in her assessment of suitability, but it didnt think this was a fair measure. 
Firstly, because remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option (which was a key underlying assumption of the critical yield). Secondly, because its advice to transfer and take 
benefits at 55 was on a flexible basis. So it thought the comparative analysis shouldve 
been on a flexible basis. It agreed that the critical yield of 8.14% wasnt achievable and 
clearly stated so in its suitability report. It thought that a fairer comparison would be to 
consider the transfer value taken on a flexible basis in line with projections of the scheme 
pension. This shows that based on pension revaluation of 2.5% per year, the flexible 
benefits taken at age 55 would run out after Mr Gs life expectancy  in its view this was 
a fairer comparison given his objectives;
Capacity for loss  In its view, Mr G had limited dependence on the value of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS to meet his retirement income needs. This was because 
he would be entitled to a full State pension and was also building up further retirement 
provision in the Tata Steel defined contribution benefit scheme. This meant that he had 
the capacity to accept the risks associated with the pension transfer. In its Confidential 
Financial Review form Mr G indicated I do not depend upon this pension and am 
prepared to take some risks with it regarding his preserved benefits in the BSPS. But 
the investigator inexplicably reassessed Mr Gs capacity as having a low capacity for 
loss without any justification. In its view, there was a reasonable chance that the 
transferred pension could match the scheme pension payments during Mr Gs expected 
lifetime and so it was appropriate to transfer bearing in mind his risk profile and 
objectives;
Pensionhelps final response letter  The investigator made limited cross reference to 
its final response letter and so it appeared she hadnt fully considered its position in 
response to the complaint made by Mr G;
Discount rates  It was an error for our investigator to refer to the discount rates 
published by this service because theyre used for calculating redress on unsuitable 
pension transfers. Furthermore, it wasnt aware of any regulatory requirement to use the 
discount rates when providing advice. Therefore, in its view, the discount rates shouldnt 
be considered as part of the advice process, as stated by the investigator, so it failed to 
see the relevance when assessing suitability;
Alternative options  It accepted that the BSPS2 and PPF were alternative options for 
Mr G but didnt think they were valid because they were inconsistent with his objectives, 
risk profile, priorities and capacity for loss. Furthermore, it didnt understand why the 
investigator had concluded that the BSPS2 was the better option for Mr G without 
explanation. Due to the changes to the BSPS, Mr G was forced to make a decision on 
one of three options, none of which were perfect, equally none would meet all his 
requirements. Moreover, whatever was recommended was sub-optimal as Mr G 
wouldve had his benefits immediately reduced if he accepted either the BSPS2 or PPF. 
It considered that the approach taken by our investigator was skewed because she 
criticized the quality of its advice without objectively factoring in the downside of the other 
options;
Costs and charges  The costs associated with the transaction were clearly disclosed, 
contrary to Mr Gs allegation; 
Investment performance  Since the pension transfer, Mr Gs SIPP fund value had 
achieved a 16% return post fund charges and was on course to exceed the scheme 
pension on a flexible basis and meet his objectives. Given any reasonable assumption 
for growth over the next six years (when Mr G will be 55), it believes that the 
recommendation it made was more appropriate than the BSPS2 option as concluded by 
the investigator; and 
Compensation offer  While it didnt agree with the investigators assessment, it had 
arranged for a third party actuary to complete a loss assessment and this showed that 
Mr G hadnt suffered a tangible loss. However, in order to avoid prolonging the matter 
further, it offered Mr G £2,000 compensation in full and final settlement. It requested that, 
if he didnt accept its offer, this complaint be referred to an ombudsman to review the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice based on the stated needs and objectives of                  
Mr G, as recorded at the time of its advice.
Pensionhelps compensation offer was put to Mr G but he didnt accept it. So this complaint 
has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under separate headings below.
Our investigators assessment
Firstly, Id like to address Pensionhelps concerns that our investigators assessment wasnt 
based on the facts of Mr Gs complaint but instead on a different, unconnected complaint. 
Our investigators often work on several complaints at the same time involving different 
consumers and businesses. So its possible that they may make a mistake and incorrectly 
refer to a different business or make typos in their assessments, as the investigator did in 
this case. Our investigator apologised to Pensionhelp for her errors but assured it that her 
assessment was based on the evidence and comments submitted by both parties to this 
complaint. I havent seen evidence to the contrary. Id like to reassure Pensionhelp that in 
formulating my final decision below, Ive considered all the evidence afresh including its final 
response letter. And Id like to make clear that the purpose of this final decision isnt to 
address every single point raised by the parties. So If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
The genesis of this complaint
Pensionhelp says that Mr G only complained because he responded to the FCAs call to 
action about British Steel pension transfers. Its clearly unhappy about the genesis of this 
complaint. It may help Pensionhelp to understand why the FCA contacted Mr G. In recent 
years the FCA identified that many steelworkers received unsuitable pension transfer advice 
and may have made poor financial choices, losing significant sums of money as a result. It 
therefore wrote to individuals, like Mr G, who transferred out of the BSPS to encourage them 
to revisit the advice they received and to complain if they had concerns. The fact that Mr G 
made this complaint in response to the FCAs letter doesnt mean its without merit, as I think 
is implied by Pensionhelp, or that hes acted unreasonably. Pensionhelp will, I hope, agree 
that, regardless of how his concerns materialised, Mr G is entitled to complain about the 
advice it provided if hes concerned it was unsuitable. Pensionhelp says that the basis of Mr Gs complaint changed between his complaint letter 
(which had been forwarded to it by Firm D) and completion of our complaint form, suggesting 
that he had sought or was given third party advice in the intervening period about how he 
should present his complaint. I dont think this is relevant. We have an inquisitorial remit. We 
wont just look at the way a complaint is put. Mr G may have provided limited or different 
reasons in his initial complaint letter compared to our complaint form about why he was 
unhappy, but this may be because more information came to light in the intervening period. 
Well consider the overall situation and the complaint more broadly if we deem it appropriate 
to do so. And in Mr Gs case, its my view that this complaint is fundamentally about the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice he received, bearing in mind he complained in 
response to the FCAs letter. So Ill decide this complaint on that basis. Its worth noting here 
that Pensionhelp was sent a copy of the completed complaint form we received from Mr G 
and so it was provided the opportunity to consider and respond, which it did.
 
Ill now go on to consider the suitability of Pensionhelps pension transfer advice given to           
Mr G.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
What follows isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
Pensionhelp advised Mr G but provides useful context for my assessment of its actions
here.
The FCA sets the rules and guidance that businesses must follow when advising
clients on pension transfers. Businesses are required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied are set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the
rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice 
that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a 
level of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile. In order to ensure that this 
was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the 
necessary information for it to be confident its advice it suitable. Broadly speaking, this 
section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a 
fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving 
safeguarded benefits  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client 
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with 
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients best 
interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers 
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance, 
businesses advising on pension transfers must start by assuming that the existing scheme is 
suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded benefits into flexible 
benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests. The FCA has 
repeatedly stated that businesses must adequately consider alternative options to achieve 
the clients objectives to enable them to maintain preserved benefits in the defined benefit 
scheme. 
The important point to make here is that the FCA refers to clearly in its rules. In my view, 
borderline cases  those which appear evenly balanced as to whether to transfer or not  
dont meet the clearly requirement, as required by the FCA. Therefore, if I conclude that 
guaranteed, lower risk alternative options, such as the BSPS2 or PPF, couldve met                 
Mr Gs objectives, then its likely Ill find the advice to transfer unsuitable given the FCAs 
default position.
Investment performance
In response to our investigators assessment, Pensionhelp made the point that since the 
pension transfer, Mr Gs SIPP fund value achieved a 16% return post fund charges. 
Pensionhelp will, I hope, understand that investment performance since the pension transfer 
is irrelevant in deciding whether its recommendation was suitable. What matters is whether suitability can be clearly demonstrated based on the contemporaneous evidence. Put 
another way, whilst positive investment returns may serve to reduce or eliminate loss 
determined by way of a redress calculation, as Pensionhelp believes to be the case here, it 
doesnt transform an unsuitable recommendation into a suitable one. Therefore, in reaching 
my decision on the suitability of Pensionhelps advice, I wont be considering how the SIPP 
has performed since the pension transfer. 
Mr Gs situation
Mr Gs situation at the time Pensionhelp advised him in November 2017 was somewhat 
unusual for the reasons set out in the background above. To briefly recap, after the BSPS 
closed, Mr G was given three options regarding his preserved benefits in that scheme before 
Pensionhelp issued its suitability report in November 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Based on the above considerations and for the purposes of my decision, Ill work on the 
basis that Mr G had the three options listed above at the time Pensionhelp advised him. Id 
like to acknowledge that the FCAs default position that advisers must start by assuming the 
existing scheme is suitable doesnt quite apply here. This is because remaining in the BSPS 
wasnt an option for Mr G. But he could transfer to the BSPS2 and maintain safeguarded 
rights in that scheme or opt for the guaranteed compensation offered by the PPF.
The situation was rapidly evolving and there were serious concerns relating to the BSPS at 
the time Pensionhelp advised Mr G. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty 
for individuals such as Mr G. But this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice 
where a regulated advisory business was appointed. Any concerns Mr G had about the 
security of his benefits shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the 
professional party in the transaction, Pensionhelp. 
I recognise that was no perfect solution for Mr G. And that the value of his preserved 
benefits in the BSPS was ultimately his money to do with as he saw fit. However, he was 
relying on Pensionhelp to provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into 
account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could then make an 
informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial 
advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or 
pension scheme, but as the professional party, Pensionhelp was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options.
Given the availability of the BSPS2 and PPF options, its my view that Pensionhelp shouldve 
only considered a pension transfer to a SIPP if it could demonstrate, on contemporary 
evidence, that it was clearly in Mr Gs best interests rather than utilising those alternative 
options.
Critical yield and discount rates
The TVAS rules applied at the time Pensionhelp advised Mr G. This required it to conduct a 
transfer value analysis and to calculate the critical yield applicable for the proposed transfer. 
The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer 
value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the defined 
benefit scheme (and at a different age, if selected) on the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age  
the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will achieve sufficient 
investment growth to match the defined benefit scheme. Pensionhelp calculated the 
following critical yield figures for the SIPP based on a transfer value of £354,928: 
At age 55 based on 
a full pensionAt age 65 based on 
a full pensionAt age 55 based on 
a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based on 
a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-
free cash
10.97% 7.22% 8.14% 5.76%
Pensionhelp disagreed with our investigator placing weight on the critical yield figure of 
8.14% in her assessment of suitability. She referenced that figure because it most accurately 
reflected Mr Gs recorded objective to access the maximum tax-free cash with which to 
repay his mortgage at 55. But Pensionhelp didnt think this was a fair measure. It stated that 
the critical yield figures attached to the SIPP wasnt achievable and clearly stated as much in 
its suitability report. It also made the point that the critical yield figures were largely 
meaningless for two reasons. Firstly, because remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option which 
was a key underlying assumption of the critical yield. And secondly, because its advice to 
transfer and take benefits at 55 was on a flexible basis. 
So it thought the comparative analysis shouldve been on a flexible basis. It thought that the 
investigators analysis incorrectly focused on a crude measure of investment return only and 
that she shouldve also considered that the critical yield was based on RPI of 2.5% in 
deferment and 3.58% in payment but current revaluation and escalation are less than 1% 
per year, with little immediate prospect of increase (implying that the true critical yield to 
match benefits under the ceding scheme is lower than that calculated at the time of its 
advice). It thought that a fairer comparison would be to consider the transfer value taken on 
a flexible basis in line with projections of the scheme pension. This showed that based on 
pension revaluation of 2.5% per year, the flexible pension taken at age 55 would be fully 
depleted after Mr Gs life expectancy  in its view this was a fairer comparison given Mr Gs 
objectives.
In its analysis of the transfer value of £354,928 offered to Mr G, Pensionhelp concluded We 
therefore believe that the CETV represents a fair exchange for the benefits that you are 
giving up. It held this view because its projections of income sustainability from the SIPP 
extended beyond Mr Gs life expectancy. It also stated, In addition, CETVs are particularly 
high at this time and whilst you could defer transferring out of the Scheme until you are 
closer to reaching age 55, there is no guarantee that the CETV will be as high in future.
I think Pensionhelps comments about the transfer value representing good value for money 
and may reduce in the future were misleading and may have inappropriately influenced                    
Mr Gs decision to transfer to the SIPP. Ill explain why.
In my view, TVAS has a role to play where its likely the individual would use the 
accumulated fund at retirement to provide steady, secure income during retirement such as 
a lifetime annuity. I acknowledge that the critical yield figures in this case were based on              
Mr G remaining a member of the BSPS which wasnt an option. I also agree with 
Pensionhelp that the TVAS isnt a precise tool or personalised to reflect individual 
circumstances and objectives. But the critical yield does give an indication of the value 
offered by the defined benefit scheme and the ability to secure comparable benefits on the 
open market. Its therefore useful in that regard. And in this case, its my view that the critical 
yield figures indicated that that the transfer value of £354,928 represented poor value for 
money in exchange for the relinquished preserved benefits based on the required investment return. I note that the transfer value had been reduced by 5% due to the BSPS 
being in deficit, which partly explains why, in my view, it represented poor value for money.
Pensionhelp says that it was an error for our investigator to refer to the discount rates 
published by this service because theyre used for calculating redress on unsuitable pension 
transfers. Furthermore, it wasnt aware of any regulatory requirement to use the discount 
rates when providing advice. Therefore, in its view, the discount rates shouldnt be 
considered as part of the advice process, as stated by the investigator, so it failed to see the 
relevance when assessing suitability. 
Ill explain why this service refers to discount rates. Pensionhelps advice to Mr G was given 
after the FCA gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 regarding how businesses could 
calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension 
transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published by this service 
on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice 
on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Mr Gs case. 
The closest discount rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was published by this service 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and this ranged from 3.7% to 4.4% per year over the 
terms to 55 and 65 respectively. But even if Pensionhelp rejects that measure as a 
reasonable comparator, the FCA's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. In contrast, the investment 
return (critical yield) required by the SIPP to match the BSPS ranged from 5.76% to 10.97% 
per year, depending on when and how Mr G accessed the benefits from the SIPP  this 
comparative analysis adds weight to my view that the transfer value offered represented 
poor value for money because the invested transfer value would have to achieve significant 
investment returns to match the relinquished benefits.
Based on the above considerations, I think it was highly likely that Mr G would receive 
benefits from the SIPP of a substantially lower overall value than the BSPS at retirement, as 
a result of investing in line with a conservative risk profile as set out in Pensionhelps 
suitability report. So based on this alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Gs best interests. And 
Pensionhelp acknowledges this. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving pension transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
Pensionhelps rationale for transferring
Mr G had been introduced to Pensionhelp by a separate business, Firm D. Theres no 
dispute that Pensionhelp advised Mr G to transfer and that it therefore remains responsible 
for the suitability of the pension transfer advice. In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, 
Pensionhelp undertook its fact finding for Mr G and then set out its assessment of his 
circumstances and objectives. The latter, as set out above, may be summarised as follows:
repay his outstanding mortgage at 55; 
have flexibility in terms of the timing, amount and regularity of income between 55 
and 60 and thereafter, although when he did fully retire, he and his wife required a 
minimum net annual income of around £16,800 in 2017 terms to support their desired 
standard of living in retirement;
leave a potential legacy for his children, upon the second death;
Ive therefore explored these objectives further below.Mortgage repayment 
Pensionhelp recorded that Mr G wanted to take the maximum available tax-free cash from 
his preserved benefits at 55 to repay his outstanding mortgage, but to defer income until a 
later date. The suitability report doesnt include any analysis showing what the outstanding 
mortgage balance was estimated to be in 2027 when Mr G would be 55  and therefore how 
much tax-free cash would be required to clear whatever mortgage remained outstanding at 
that time to achieve his objectives. Furthermore, the report doesnt elaborate on the reasons 
why Mr G wanted to repay his mortgage early or why it was deemed suitable for him to 
relinquish valuable benefit guarantees to achieve this.
Accessing pension benefits early would lead to reduce retirement income later in life. Like 
most individuals, Mr G may have wanted to repay his mortgage early but, given his 
background, its my view that he didnt have the necessary knowledge or experience to 
understand whether it made financial sense to access his pension benefits early to achieve 
this objective at the cost of a reduced retirement income later in life.
At the time of Pensionhelps advice in 2017, Mr G and his wife were both 45 and on course 
to clear their outstanding repayment mortgage of about £160,000 in 15 years time in 2032 
when they would be 60. They didnt have any other debts. The monthly cost of the mortgage 
was £570. Theres no suggestion that Mr G and his wife were having trouble in making 
monthly mortgage repayments at the time Pensionhelp provided advice or that this might be 
the case in the future. Further, interest rates were, at the time, and in the preceding several 
years, very low by historical standards. So its unclear why it was deemed necessary for              
Mr G to repay the mortgage five years earlier at 55 instead of letting it run its full term to 60. 
Nevertheless, Ive considered how the SIPP, BSPS2 and PPF options may have enabled  
Mr G to repay his mortgage early at 55. In its suitability report, Pensionhelp promoted the 
pension transfer option as providing more tax-free cash with which to repay the mortgage. It 
stated that the projected tax-free cash at 55 from the SIPP was £83,100 and substantially 
higher compared to the £59,395 from the BSPS. I think this was a misleading comparison 
bearing in mind Pensionhelp knew that the BSPS wouldnt exist by the time Mr G was 55. 
And Pensionhelp has itself remarked that the BSPS benefits are of limited comparative use.
Based on the available information, a fairer comparison on the tax-free cash position 
wouldve been to highlight the disparity between the SIPP and PPF. The projected tax-free 
cash at 55 from the PPF was £69,753 (compared to the £59,395 from the BSPS). The 
estimated tax-free cash provided by the BSPS2 wasnt calculated  but it was generally 
known at the time Pensionhelp advised Mr G that the PPF would be more generous than the 
BSPS2 when working out early retirement pensions and converting pension income into tax-
free cash. So I think its fair to say that the tax-free cash provided by the BSPS2 at 55 was 
likely to be lower than the £69,753 estimated to be provided by the PPF. Its my view that 
referencing the lower tax-free cash from the BSPS rather than the higher figure from the 
PPF may have unduly influenced Mr Gs decision to transfer to the SIPP. 
While I agree that the SIPP potentially offered more tax-free cash than the BSPS2 and PPF 
based on the estimations at that time, it may well have been the case that the tax-free cash 
provided by either of those alternative options, albeit less than the SIPP, may have been 
enough to clear the outstanding mortgage at 55 in any event. I say this because by the time 
Mr G reached 55 in 2027, the bulk of his mortgage of about £160,000 that existed in 2017 
wouldve been repaid assuming repayments continued during the intervening 10-year period. 
As noted above, the suitability report doesnt include any analysis showing what the 
outstanding mortgage balance was estimated to be in 2027 when Mr G would be 55. Ive 
therefore tried to estimate it here to help me form a view on whether the PPF or BSPS2 
likely wouldve provided enough tax-free cash with which to repay the mortgage.Mr Gs monthly mortgage repayment was £570. If he repaid the mortgage that remained at 
55 hed release disposable income each month of £570 for the five year period between 55 
and 60. This saving amounts to £34,200. This suggests to me that the mortgage balance 
remaining at 55 would likely be somewhere between £30,000 and £40,000, allowing for 
changes in the mortgage interest rate in the intervening 10-year period between 2017 and 
2027. I note that my estimation about the likely outstanding mortgage balance at 55 is 
comfortably below the £69,753 tax-free cash estimated to be provided by the PPF and even 
the likely tax-free cash estimated to be provided by BSPS2 had the figure been calculated. 
Therefore, its my view that both the PPF and BSPS2 likely wouldve produced enough tax-
free cash at 55 to repay the mortgage balance that remained at that time. But Mr G wasnt 
made aware of this by Pensionhelp in its suitability report. 
So its my view that Pensionhelp didnt adequately demonstrate to Mr G that the alternative 
options of either the BSPS2 or PPF wouldnt meet his mortgage repayment objective  and 
therefore that the pension transfer was clearly suitable to achieve this specific objective. I 
think this is a key failing and prevented Mr G from making an informed decision. But for the 
reasons explained above, Im not convinced it was in any case appropriate for Mr G to repay 
his mortgage early at the expense of a reduce retirement income later in life in any event. I 
say this in full acknowledgement that repaying the mortgage five years early wouldve saved 
mortgage repayments £34,200 (assuming the interest rate remained unchanged). But that 
saving wouldve come at the cost of significantly reduced retirement income for Mr G for the 
rest of his life and his wife if she outlived him, both of whom were in good health.
My basic calculation above simply serves to demonstrate that, even if it could reasonably be 
concluded that there was a definitive need for Mr G to repay his mortgage at 55, its more 
likely than not that he wouldve been able to achieve this through the BSPS2 or PPF options. 
In conclusion, I cannot see any compelling reason why it was appropriate for Mr G to repay 
his mortgage early at 55 rather than letting it run its full term to 60, particularly since his 
retirement plans at 45 seemed fluid. I say this because it was unclear exactly when he would 
require retirement income, stating that this could be at any time between 55 and 60. In my 
view, given his wider financial circumstances, I think its more likely than not that he wouldnt 
be able to comfortably fully retire until 60 at the earliest. Pensionhelp seem to share this view 
because in its final response letter it suggested that Mr G would continue paying into his 
Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme until 60. I also note that when Firm D 
introduced Mr G to Pensionhelp it confirmed that he intended to retire in 15 years time at 60.
So it seems to me that it was likely hed remain employed up to 60 and therefore in receipt of 
income and able to continue making the monthly mortgage repayments until it was fully 
repaid.
Flexibility and control
Pensionhelp recorded that Mr G wanted to have flexibility in terms of the timing, amount and 
regularity of income withdrawals at any time from between 55 and 60 and thereafter. As 
noted above, I think its more likely than not that Mr G wouldnt be able to fully retire until 60 
at the earliest. 
Pensionhelp recorded that when Mr G fully retired that he and his wife would require a 
minimum net annual income of around £16,800 in 2017 terms to support their desired 
standard of living in retirement. Therefore, I think its fair to say that Mr G required certainty 
regarding his retirement income, something that wouldve been provided by either the 
BSPS2 or PPF. But Pensionhelp recorded that Mr G didnt want a guaranteed pension 
income. And that replication of the scheme pension wasnt an objective for him. It was for this reason that it dismissed the critical yield figures attached to the pension transfer, as 
explained earlier. I think its unlikely that Mr G actively rejected the prospect of a guaranteed 
income for life, rather than this being something he was perhaps willing to relinquish in lieu 
of flexibility, but even if it could reasonably argued that this was the case, in demonstrating 
that the pension transfer was clearly suitable and in his best interests, Pensionhelp was 
required, under the FCAs rules, to consider alternative options to meet his retirement 
income objective.
To achieve his income objective, Pensionhelp was working on the basis that Mr G would 
take the maximum tax-free cash at 55 to repay his mortgage, take a higher income from his 
SIPP between 55 and 60 (but more likely nearer 60) to his State pension age of 67, and then 
reduce the income from the SIPP thereafter. Pensionhelps recommendation was on the 
basis that payment of Mr G and his wifes State pensions from 67 would meet the bulk of 
their retirement income needs from that point onwards and so he had a medium capacity 
for loss to accept the risks associated with the pension transfer. And it was on this basis that 
it concluded the income provided by the SIPP would be sustainable beyond Mr Gs life 
expectancy. The suitability report confirmed that Mr G was aware that by transferring to the 
SIPP hed be taking on the investment risk, interest rate risk and longevity risk associated 
with the transaction, but these were risks he was apparently willing to accept.
Ive considered whether Mr Gs minimum net annual retirement income need of around 
£16,800 in 2017 terms couldve been met by alternative options including the BSPS2, PPF 
and the Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme.
Pensionhelp calculated the estimated benefits payable by the BSPS and PPF as follows:
Scheme At age 55 based 
on a full pension 
only (gross)At age 55 based 
on a reduced 
pension (gross 
and maximum 
tax-free cashAt age 65 based 
on a full pension 
only (gross)At age 65 based 
on a reduced 
pension (gross) 
and maximum 
tax-free cash
BSPS £12,598 per year £8,909 per year
£59,395 cash£23,248 per year £15,407 per year
£102,715 cash
PPF £12,489 per year £10,485 per year
£69,753 cash£18,588 per year £14,681 per year
£97,661 cash
The estimated benefits payable by the BSPS2 wasnt calculated. But its possible to make an 
approximation based on the BSPS figures. This is because it was known at the time that the 
BSPS2 would provide the same benefits as the BSPS except that future increases in 
deferment and payment would be lower. So the figures for the BSPS2 likely fell somewhere 
between those estimated for the BSPS and PPF in the table above for the benefits payable 
at 65.
Based on the above estimations, I think its fair to say that Mr Gs retirement income need 
wouldve been met by either the BSPS2 or PPF from 65 had he opted for the maximum tax-
free cash and lower income option to meet the income need for the two year period until the 
State pension started to be paid from 67.
There are differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. These differences were communicated to scheme members in the period leading up to 
the deadline so Pensionhelp ought to have been aware of this. In my view, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for Mr G. I say this because, for the reasons explained above, Im not 
convinced accessing pension benefits at 55 to obtain tax-free cash for mortgage repayment 
purposes in exchange for a reduced retirement income could be regarded as suitable based 
on the contemporaneous evidence. I think that had a proper analysis and discussion 
occurred, Mr G wouldve likely let his mortgage run to its full term to 60, negating the need to 
draw tax-free cash from the value of his preserved benefits for mortgage repayment 
purposes. This means Mr G couldve likely delayed drawing his defined benefits until 65 in 
order to meet his retirement income need. Ill explain why. 
I think its more likely than not that Mr G wouldnt be able to fully retire until 60 at the earliest 
until his mortgage was repaid assuming he left it to run to its full term. Repayment of the 
mortgage would provide a monthly saving of £570 for Mr G and his wife. So it seems that if 
Mr G did fully retire at 60, hed need income from another source for a period of up to five 
years until he reached the BSPS2 normal retirement age of 65. 
Mr G had been an active member of the Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme 
since April 2017 after the BSPS had closed to further benefit accrual. He and his employer 
were, in total, contributing 9% of his pensionable salary of about £35,000 into that scheme 
and it was then valued at about £3,000 when he was 45. It appears his intention was to 
continue working full-time with Tata Steel until he fully retired. Pensionhelp share this view, 
as noted above. Over that period, I think Pensionhelp couldve reasonably expected that, 
based on Mr Gs salary and the contribution rate, about £50,000 wouldve been invested in 
his Tata Steel defined contribution pension plan by the time he reached 60. Considering 
likely investment growth and increases in contributions linked to Mr Gs pensionable salary, 
the pot of money available would likely be higher than £50,000 at 60. So any income needs 
from that point onwards couldve been met in the first instance by using money built up in the 
Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme  this money could be used to secure a 
lifetime annuity or provide flexible benefits depending on Mr Gs circumstances and needs at 
that time.
Pensionhelp recorded that Mr G didnt want a guaranteed pension income. As set out 
previously, this seems odd to me since most individuals would prefer guaranteed income, 
particularly when they have a minimum income requirement to maintain a certain standard of 
living, as applies in Mr Gs case. His preserved BSPS benefits represented the backbone of 
his retirement provision. Based on his wider financial circumstances, its my view that he had 
limited capacity to expose this money to significant risk. The alternative course of action Ive 
suggested above wouldve enabled Mr G to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 
and use his Tata Steel defined contribution pension plan to meet his income needs for the 
five-year period from 60 until he could take unreduced benefits from the BSPS2 at 65. This 
would then be followed by the full State pension at 67. If receipt of both the BSPS2 and 
State pension provided excess income over and above Mr Gs income need, this couldve 
been reinvested for future use.
So, from 65 onwards, most of his core retirement income needs couldve been met by 
guaranteed and escalating pensions with all the risks of providing this the responsibility of 
other parties. And if it turned out that the Tata Steel defined contribution pension plan didnt 
provide adequate income for the full five-year period between 60 and 65, Mr G couldve 
taken his benefits from BSPS2 at some point in between, meaning the early retirement factor 
wouldnt be as great as at 60. The SIPP option was portrayed by Pensionhelp in the 
suitability report as simply allowing for early retirement without the penalties which would 
be applied to the scheme pension. It stated, Following a transfer, you will be able to access 
your benefits immediately without any reductions applying. The reality was of course that 
the SIPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed before 65 and any resulting income 
would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to Mr G so that he could understand accessing both the scheme pension or SIPP early would likely lead to 
reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at 65.
I note that in its response to this complaint Pensionhelp stated that the risks associated with 
the pension transfer were mitigated by the fact that Mr G was building up additional pension 
provision in the Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme  and in theory this meant 
that by 60 about 15 years worth of contributions wouldve been invested in that scheme, 
providing an additional pot of money to help maintain his desired standard of living in 
retirement. So were in agreement that the money built up in that plan could help meet          
Mr Gs retirement income need. But Im required to decide this complaint on the 
contemporaneous evidence. And theres no such evidence provided to me that shows 
Pensionhelp adequately considered, discussed and presented this option to Mr G at the time 
of its advice.
I consider that this alternative course of action Ive suggested entailed significantly lower 
risks compared to a pension transfer because it meant managing the investment, inflation 
and longevity risk wouldve remained the responsibility of the BSPS2 rather than Mr G. 
However, theres no reference to this alternative, lower risk course of action in Pensionhelps 
suitability report. I think this is a key failing and prevented Mr G from making an informed 
decision.
Id like to make one final point here. Since Mr G was 45 at the time of Pensionhelps advice, 
he couldnt draw benefits from the SIPP until at least 55 based on the normal minimum 
pension age rules that then applied. By transferring to a SIPP in 2017, it transferred all the 
risk to him and limited his options later on. Had Mr G opted for the BSPS2 he wouldve 
maintained safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a SIPP at a later date, 
if then deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, 
determine his retirement income and lump sum needs with greater accuracy than at 45. He 
no longer has the transfer option because of Pensionhelps advice.
Death benefits 
Pensionhelp recorded that death benefits were important to Mr G and that he didnt wish to 
consider any option that could cease following his death. In its suitability report it stated You 
would also like the potential to pass your pension funds onto your family eventually rather 
than be limited to the more restricted benefits paid by the Scheme on death. By transferring 
to a Personal Pension Plan, the full fund value is available as a potentially tax free (on death 
pre-75) lump sum death benefit compared to the Schemes reduced spouses pension which 
is taxable at your spouses marginal rate. Should your spouse also die prematurely, then the 
remaining fund can be passed to other named beneficiaries, whereas the Scheme pension 
would stop, except in the first five yearsyour overriding requirements are not to match the 
Scheme benefits i.e. prescribed income amount, reduced spouses pension, but to have 
greater flexibility over your benefits and to restructure the death benefits.
Mr G may have not wished to consider any other options to achieve his death lump sum 
benefit objective. But in demonstrating that the pension transfer was clearly suitable and in 
the Mr Gs best interests, Pensionhelp was required to consider alternative options to meet 
his death lump sum objective. If it was a genuine desire that Mr G provide a lump sum on his 
death, then life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum to him 
beneficiaries. Pure life cover for a defined term is generally cheap and may have been 
affordable for Mr G given his age and good health. However, I cannot see evidence that 
Pensionhelp adequately investigated this alternative option. For example, I havent seen 
evidence that Pensionhelp quantified Mr Gs death lump sum need, over what term, how this 
might change over time, how it might be met by other means or present life cover quotes to 
him. I acknowledge that in its suitability report, Pensionhelp referred to optional features which may be available at additional cost including life cover but it then didnt go on to obtain 
and provide personalised quotes to make this meaningful to Mr G to help him make an 
informed decision.
In any event, Im not convinced Mr G needed to restructure his death benefits. I 
acknowledge that the recommended SIPP offered flexible death benefits  nominated 
beneficiaries could choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump 
sum or income drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurs under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are 
taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately 
following the transfer to the SIPP and for the period until Mr G could draw any tax-free cash 
and from 55, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at 
least 10 years.
But Mr G was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect normal life expectancy
into his late 70s or early 80s. And as Ive noted above, the value of his preserved BSPS
benefits represented the backbone of his retirement provision and that hell inevitably
require this money to meet his core income needs in retirement. Therefore, withdrawing
the maximum tax-free cash at 55 and then more money during retirement to meet his 
minimum income requirement, as planned, would likely mean that the size of the fund 
remaining in later years  when death is most likely  could be much smaller than expected. 
Its impossible to say with any degree of certainty what fund might reasonably be available to 
Mr Gs beneficiaries based on his expected rate of withdrawal and life expectancy  and 
therefore how the SIPP might provide financial support for his wife and children. 
The BSPS2, on the other hand, would provide the certainty of a spouses pension set at 50% 
of Mr Gs pension at the date of death and would escalate in payment. Furthermore, the 
spouses pension would escalate in payment linked to movements in the CPI capped at 
between 2.5% and 5%. Pensionhelp described the spouses pension as restrictive. I dont 
think this is a fair assessment given that Mr Gs wife was in good health and could expect to 
live into her late 70s or early 80s and so could rely on guaranteed income to be provided for 
her lifetime in the event he predeceased her.
Mr G had no health issues at the time of Pensionhelps advice which might reasonably have 
prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the 
sake of an enhanced safety net for his wife and children. So Im not convinced there was any 
real merit in Mr G transferring to a SIPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit. Its 
my view that theres no real evidence that a death lump sum was required for Mr Gs wife 
and their children. Therefore, based on the above considerations, I disagree with 
Pensionhelps view that the only way to achieve Mr Gs death benefit objective was by 
transferring to the SIPP at that point in time. Given Mr Gs circumstances, I consider that the 
BSPS2 and even the PPF, if required, would likely offer better death benefits to his 
beneficiaries over the longer term compared to the SIPP.
Costs and charges
Mr G complained that the costs and charges under the SIPP were far higher than he 
expected, which wasnt explained or discussed during the advice process. Having reviewed 
Pensionhelps suitability report, its my view that the charges on transfer to the SIPP were 
explained clearly. However, fair disclosure of costs and charges doesnt alter my view on 
suitability in this case.
If properly informed, would Mr G have still insisted on the pension transfer?In potential mitigation of Pensionhelps advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr G, if 
placed in a fully informed position that his objectives couldve been met by either the BSPS2 
or PPF options, as Ive set out above, would nevertheless still have insisted on the pension 
transfer. On balance, its my view that had Mr Gs fears about the security of his preserved 
benefits been adequately allayed and was placed into an informed position about the 
alternative options, he wouldnt have insisted on a pension transfer given his conservative 
risk profile and his wider personal and financial circumstances. Im simply not persuaded 
that, if fully informed, he wouldve relinquished the guaranteed income offered by either the 
BSPS or PPF in exchange for the unlimited downside risks associated with the pension 
transfer. 
Conclusion
The aim of the pension transfer was to access flexible benefits, maximise the tax-free cash 
and take it early, and to maximise death benefits available to Mr Gs beneficiaries. In its final 
response letter to this complaint, Pensionhelp said that the pension transfer was the most 
feasible option available to meet Mr Gs objectives. However, for the reasons explained 
above, I dont think Pensionhelp adequately demonstrated this at the time because it failed 
to adequately consider, investigate and discuss alternative options with Mr G. In my view, a 
combination of the Tata Steel defined contribution scheme and BSPS2 couldve met Mr Gs 
retirement income objective. Im not convinced there was a genuine, or at least clearly 
demonstrated, need to repay the mortgage five years earlier at 55 or to provide a death lump 
sum to his beneficiaries in exchange for the loss of guaranteed retirement income. Its my 
view that Pensionhelps failure to carry out adequate analysis of alternative options resulted 
in Mr G making the decision to transfer from an uninformed position.
The key contributing factors here relate to inadequate consideration of alternative options, 
the unbalanced and misrepresentative portrayal of the value of Mr Gs preserved benefits 
compared to the recommended SIPP and exposing Mr Gs significant retirement provision to 
more risk than we was able to tolerate  all of which are a failure to adhere to COBS 2.1.1R, 
COBS 4.2.1, 9.2.2R, 19.1.2R, 19.1.6G, 19.1.7G and 19.1.8G.
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr G, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Pensionhelps 
unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Gs deferred benefits isnt possible. Therefore, 
Pensionhelp should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My view is aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mr G not transferred the value of 
his preserved benefits to the SIPP, he wouldve opted to join the BSPS2 rather than the 
PPF. Ill explain why. 
There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS2 wouldnt reduce the starting entitlement for deferred members. The reduction for 
early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for tax free cash 
entitlement were also more favourable under the PPF. And so, on the basis of prospective 
early retirement, both the starting income and the tax-free cash would likely have been 
higher with the PPF. But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly 
advised, Mr G wouldve envisaged accessing his Tata Steel defined contribution scheme 
benefits in the first instance to make up any income shortfall in the period between 60 and 
65 before starting to take his defined benefits, which could then have been deferred until 
normal scheme retirement age of 65. In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP2 the 
spouses pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. And so its the benefits offered by the 
BSPS2 which should be used for comparison purposes. 
As such, the calculation based on choosing to enter the BSPS2 should be carried out using 
the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. Pensionhelp may 
wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs contribution 
history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as tax free cash and 75% wouldve been 
taxed according to Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
Pensionhelp receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of this final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes Pensionhelp to pay Mr G. 
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require Pensionhelp to pay Mr G the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the 
compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Pensionhelp to pay 
Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount 
already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Pensionhelp to pay Mr G any interest as set 
out above on the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I recommend that 
Pensionhelp pays Mr G the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts my final decision on the above basis, the money award would be binding on 
Pensionhelp. My recommendation would not be binding on Pensionhelp. Further, its unlikely that Mr G could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to 
consider obtaining independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Pensionhelp Limited must undertake the 
above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr G accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman