DRN-3678796
The complaint
Mr H complains Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account unfairly. They had previously given him 
two months notice that his account would close, but they changed their mind and closed his 
account immediately. He says this caused him severe distress, inconvenience, and financial 
problems.
What happened
Mr H revealed he suffers from bi-polar disorder which makes him vulnerable to sudden 
change. I thank Mr H for sharing this information and Ive borne in mind how he said 
Monzos actions impacted him.
Mr H held a personal account with Monzo. During the time he held the account he raised 
multiple disputes about transactions on his account. He also told Monzo about his medical 
condition and how this can impact him.
Monzo carried out a review, after which they decided to close his account and they gave him 
two months notice. But Monzo reviewed matters again and decided to close his  account 
with immediate effect. 
Mr H complains he had insufficient time to rearrange important payments, including a direct 
debit for car insurance  the consequence of which meant his insurance was cancelled due 
to a missed payment and he sold his car because he was uninsured. He says the sudden 
decision also impacted on his mental health considerably and led to him attempting to take 
his own life.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. The concluded Monzo could close 
his account and they didnt need to tell him why. While they initially gave him two months 
notice, they reviewed their position and closed his account immediately. Based on the 
information available, they didnt make an error by closing his account this way.
Mr H disagreed with the outcome. He asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his 
complaint has been given to me to decide. He emphasised his medical condition; the 
consequences of him missing a direct debit payment for his car insurance; and that he thinks 
Monzo deliberately closed his account because it was unprofitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I understand this will be very disappointing to 
him, but Ill explain why.
Mr H said he accepts Monzo could close his account by giving him two months notice. He 
said this would have allowed him to rearrange important payments such as direct debits. 
And it also meant he was less likely to have an episode affecting his mental health, which 
can be triggered by sudden change.
I have listened to what Mr H has said carefully. Monzo does have a responsibility to consider 
the individual circumstances of customers when making decisions, particularly customers 
who are vulnerable. This would include decisions related to ending their relationship with a 
customer and the amount of notice they give them.
But I have also weighed what Mr H has said against Monzos commercial freedom and the 
various factors which comprise this, as well as the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account. 
The account terms do allow Monzo to immediately close an account subject to specific 
criteria. 
Monzo isnt obliged to reveal the reason(s) to Mr H about why they changed their position 
and immediately closed his account. But Ive reviewed the basis of their decision, and on 
balance I find they reasonably applied the immediate account closure terms in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I dont find their decision was based on reasons of non-
profitability like Mr H thinks it was.
I appreciate Mr H experienced distress which impacted on his medical condition, and that he 
might have experienced financial loss as a result of Monzo immediately closing his account. 
But I dont find Monzo made an error or acted unfairly by closing his account immediately. 
So, I am not awarding him compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman