DRN-4435529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about how U K Insurance Limited handled a claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs N have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. In April 2023, they curtailed a trip as a family member was admitted to hospital. 
They rearranged their return flights at no extra cost. 
Mr N made a claim against the policy in relation to unused car hire and accommodation 
costs. UKI applied two excesses to the settlement. Mr and Mrs N didnt think that was 
fair and pursued their complaint. 
Essentially, Mr and Mrs N say that the costs claimed were the same whether Mr N was 
travelling alone or with Mrs N. They want UKI to refund one of the excesses and pay 
compensation for their distress and time spent dealing with the matter. 
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying two excesses. The investigator said that she 
appreciated that Mr N booked the car hire and accommodation but as Mrs N was also 
covered under the policy, UKI was entitled to apply the excess in the way that it had. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree with the investigator. Mr N responded to say that UKI 
originally applied only one excess and only applied the second excess when he said that 
he was travelling with Mrs N. He said that its harsh, as he didnt claim for reimbursement 
of two air fares. Mr N also said that the service he received from UKI was poor and that it 
didnt return his call, as promised.  
Mr N asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
In this decision, Im dealing with the matter Mr and Mrs N raised with UKI which led to its 
final response on 23 June 2023. If Mr and Mrs N have further concerns about the service 
they received, they should raise them with UKI in the first instance. I should mention 
here that, in any event, our service can only consider complaints about financial 
services. So, if Mr and Mrs Ns further concerns are about UKIs handling of their 
complaint  as distinct from their claim - we wont be able to consider it because 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. I dont intend to  uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and Ill explain why:    
the relevant terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of the policy include the following: 
Section C
-Cutting short your trip (after your trip has started)
What is covered
1. Curtailment
We will cover you for your:
unused accommodation costs and travel costs (including car hire, excursion and 
activities)
[]
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to abandon your trip 
while you are away for one of the following reasons:
One of the following people is [] seriously ill
-[]
-a close relative
-[]
What is not covered
We will not cover:
The excess amount. This is £75 for every claim for each insured person. []
Excess  the amount you must pay towards any claim. The excess applies separately to:
each insured person claiming; and
each event that leads to a claim.
has UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably?
I dont think that UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in dealing with the claim. Ill explain 
why.
Both Mr and Mrs N are insured under the policy. They were both on the trip they had to 
curtail. I think it was reasonable for UKI to treat this as a claim for both Mr and Mrs N.
Mr N says that he paid for the accommodation and car hire costs. Its not unusual for one 
person in a couple to make payments for joint trips. The unused accommodation and car 
hire costs were for the benefit of both Mr and Mrs N. 
I think that UKI acted fairly and reasonably in applying two excesses to the claim. Put 
another way, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require UKI to apply only one 
excess because only one of the insured in a couple paid for certain expenses where both 
insured had to curtail their trip. 
As the investigator explained, if Mrs N were not insured under the policy, Mr N would only 
be able to claim his proportion of the unused accommodation and car hire costs. In those 
circumstances, only one excess would be applied.
Ive set out above the relevant part of the policy. I think its clear that the excess applies to 
each insured person, which in this case means Mr and Mrs N. UKI acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the policy in applying the excess due under the policy to 
both Mr N and Mrs Ns claim. I dont think that it acted unfairly in doing so. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N but there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
UKI to waive one of the excesses.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman