DRN-3284866
The complaint
Mr F complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly declined part of his claim for 
storm damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr F first noticed staining on internal walls around the chimney area in his 
lounge. He reported it to esure.
esure sent an assessor to survey the damage. They didnt consider that the damage had 
been caused by a storm. They didnt locate the ingress point for the water. But declined the 
claim for both internal and external damage as they felt it was due to wear and tear. 
Mr F was unhappy so complained to esure. Initially, they didnt accept that thered been an 
insured event. So Mr F complained to this service. esure reviewed the weather information 
and accepted that there had been heavy rainfall which had allowed water to enter Mr Fs 
property. But they didnt agree that the weather conditions couldve caused any damage to 
the roof. So they agreed to cover the internal damage but declined to cover the external 
damage. They also offered Mr F £100 to apologise for the frustration caused. Our 
investigator found that there was heavy rain at the time the damage occurred. But that the 
gusts werent sufficiently strong to be considered a storm. And she couldnt see clear storm 
damage to the roof. So she felt that esure had made Mr F a fair offer. 
Mr F didnt agree. He felt that esure should also cover the damage to his chimney. He 
provided evidence from a roofer that he felt showed that the storm had damaged the top 
flaunching area of his chimney. He said that the top flaunching, leadwork and pointing had 
been replaced in 2015. And felt that under normal weather conditions this work wouldve a 
minimum life expectancy of 25 years. 
esure reviewed the new information Mr F had provided but didnt agree that it showed the 
weather conditions had damaged his chimney. They felt that the photos showed a gradual 
deterioration of the chimney. esure said that Mr Fs policy only provided cover for a set of 
insured events or perils. And that cover could only be provided if hed been able to establish 
the presence of such an event. They said while Mr Fs roofer had highlighted extreme wind 
and rain as the cause of the damage, the photos provided as evidence didnt show damage 
consistent with a one-off storm event. They said they would expect mortar/flaunching in the 
correct condition to be able to withstand such conditions without any issue. And that the 
damage seen in the photos appeared to show gradual deterioration over time.
Unhappy with their response, Mr F brought a further complaint to this service. And also 
asked esure to prove that they had obtained professional opinion on his roofers report.
esure asked an assessor to review Mr Fs new evidence. The assessor felt that there was no 
visible storm damage. And that rain and wind wouldnt have caused the flaunching to crack. 
They felt that the cracks had built up over time. They disagreed with Mr Fs roofer that the 
damage had been caused by the rain and wind. So esure told Mr F that they still couldnt 
cover the external damage. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that the damage to the roof had been
caused by wear and tear, not a storm. She felt that the storm had highlighted an existing 
issue with the roof rather than caused the issue. So she didnt think esure had treated Mr F 
unfairly.
Mr F didnt agree. He felt that the heavy rainfall had caused the damage. He also felt that 
this service had considered an almost identical case  which was featured on our website  
and upheld it. So the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is 
covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by 
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of 
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its 
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Mr F feels strongly that his chimney was damaged by heavy rainfall. esure consider that the 
chimney was damaged through normal wear and tear, which isnt covered under the policy.
As our investigator mentioned, when our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are 
three questions to consider:
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three of these questions is yes, then a claim should likely succeed.
However, if the answer to any of the questions is no, then its unlikely the claim would be 
covered under the storm damage part of the policy.
For 1., theres no longer any dispute that there was heavy rain at the time of the damage. So 
I wont considered this further.
For 2., the source of the leak appears to be cracks in the chimney flaunching. Ill consider 
this point alongside 3.
For 3, esure dont think that heavy rainfall was the dominant cause of the cracks in the 
chimney flaunching. They said the damage was caused by normal wear and tear. Mr F 
disagrees. He considers that his roofer correctly assessed the damage as having been 
caused by the heavy rain. 
Looking at the evidence, Mr Fs roofer considered that the chimney was the most probable 
cause of the leak. He said: The top flaunching area has sustained considerable water 
damage from an extreme rain and wind event.  Photos evidence the top flaunching, leadwork and pointing having undergone replacement in 2015 by a well-respected building 
contractor.  Under normal conditions such works would have a minimum life expectancy of 
25 years. Mr Fs roofer also said that the roof had no other issues.  
esures assessor didnt consider that the photos of the roof provided any evidence of storm 
damage. They also noted: the rain and wind would not cause the flaunching to crack. They 
noted: there is a third aperture/flue that has been covered over, this area is where the 
majority of the cracks seen radiate from, indicating that the substrate/ capping in this area 
has not been robust enough to ensure a lasting repair. They said they considered that the 
cracks had happened over time. They fundamentally disagreed with Mr Fs roofer that the 
damage the photos showed couldve been caused by rain and wind. They agreed that the 
repair work that had been carried out in 2015 shouldve lasted for a longer period than it had. 
And advised Mr F to consider taking up the failed repair with his contactor under any 
guarantee. esures assessor also noted that the photos of the roof showed that the general 
condition of the chimney stack was poor. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that the cracked flaunching isnt consistent with 
damage from heavy rainfall. I say this because it isnt the sort of damage Id expect to see 
following heavy rain. And because if the rain was heavy enough to crack otherwise sound 
flaunching, Id expect to see damage elsewhere. And from what Mr Fs roofer said this isnt 
the case. Instead, Im satisfied that the cracks in the flaunching had already appeared before 
the heavy rain. So I consider that the heavy rainfall highlighted an existing issue, rather than 
causing it. 
Im also satisfied that the heavy rainfall wasnt the dominant cause of the chimney damage. 
Im not persuaded that Mr F has shown that the damage to the roof was caused by the 
heavy rain, or any other policy peril. The damage appears to have been caused by wear and 
tear to the chimney, or poor workmanship when the 2015 repairs were carried out, which 
isnt covered under Mr Fs policy. So I dont consider that esure did anything wrong when 
they declined to cover the cost of the chimney repairs.
I acknowledge that Mr F considers that an example case on this services website is almost 
identical to his case. As we upheld that case, he doesnt understand why were not 
upholding his. I dont have much detail about the case on our website, other than the 
outcome. But I dont agree that its almost identical to Mr Fs complaint. I say this because, in 
that case, the insurer couldnt provide detailed information from their assessor. And the 
information they did share from their assessor wasnt persuasive. However, the consumers 
contractor provided a report which the Ombudsman considered was more persuasive. In Mr 
Fs case, the opposite is true. Ive found esures assessors report to be more persuasive 
than the comments from his roofer.  
Taking everything into account Im not persuaded esure did anything wrong. So I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman