DRN-2656865
The complaint
Miss M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited increased her credit card limit when she 
couldnt afford the borrowing.
What happened
Miss M took out the credit card in April 2014, via an on-line application. The account was 
opened with a £150 credit limit. In October 2014, Vanquis offered to increase the limit to 
£550; and in July 2015 to £1,500 (with the increases taking effect soon after).
Vanquis says it was first alerted to Miss Ms financial difficulty in December 2015, when she 
was temporarily out of work. In February 2016, the account was repaid and closed.
In June 2020, Miss M complained to Vanquis about its decision to accept her credit card 
application, and the two limit increases. In response, Vanquis explained that on each 
occasion Miss M had passed its credit scoring check. 
Miss M remained unhappy, so she contacted our service. One of our investigators concluded 
that, under the rules we must follow, due to the time that had passed we couldnt consider 
Vanquis original decision to lend. She did consider the two credit limit increases, but she 
didnt think Vanquis had done anything wrong.
Miss M accepted we couldnt consider Vanquis original decision to lend, but she asked for a 
final decision from an ombudsman in respect of the two limit increases. Therefore, her 
complaint about the two increases were passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2021. I explained I intended to uphold the 
complaint, in part. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender is required to carry out proportionate checks, which are specific to the lending 
decision; and carry out borrower-focused affordability checks by considering individual 
circumstances. The lender also needs to ensure repayments are sustainable for the 
borrower.
Based on the information provided so far, I understand the following:
-When the credit card was taken out, Miss M declared she was unemployed, but she 
had a personal income of £10,000. Miss M did have ad-hoc employment. However, 
she says her declared income was largely made up of DWP payments, tax credits, 
and child benefit (her current account statements show that in 2014, she only 
received about £1,600 from paid employment).
-Miss M says she was living in a property owned by her mother, and she didnt have 
any rent or utility bills. However, she did have a dependant who was born in 2013 
and food costs. Miss M also says she had a partner who contributed ad hoc.
-When the card was first taken out, and after the first and second limit increases, the 
available balance was immediately spent on gambling.
-At the time of the first increase, although Miss M had exceeded her credit limit on two 
occasions, she had made the minimum payment or more each month. She also had 
no other lines of credit.
-At the time of the second increase, Miss M had other debt of £1,210 (a credit report 
provided by Miss M shows this debt was split across three other credit cards taken 
out in December 2014, April 2015, and June 2015  and the limit had been spent 
immediately on each one).
-Miss Ms current account statements show that at the time of the second increase, 
she hadnt received an income from paid employment for six months, and she was 
solely reliant on DWP payments, tax credits, and child benefit.
In view of Miss Ms declared income, her limited outgoings, and no other borrowing, overall, 
Im persuaded the credit scoring check before the first credit limit increase was sufficiently 
proportionate and borrower-focused. I say this because, Im not persuaded the information 
available to Vanquis before and after its check, ought to have given it reason to doubt the 
affordability of the limit being offered.
However, overall, Im not persuaded the same can reasonably be said for the second limit 
increase. I say this because Miss M had taken out three other credit cards between the first 
and second increase and immediately spent their limits, just as she had immediately spent 
the previous limits on this card when it was first taken out and after the first increase. She 
had also only been making the minimum payment on this credit card for the previous four 
months. So, whilst I accept Vanquis wasnt obligated to monitor the account for gambling 
difficulties, in my view, the other information alone ought reasonably to have prompted a 
more borrower-focused check, particularly given Miss Ms declared unemployment and 
previous defaulted debts. 
I consider it likely that a more borrower-focused check would have identified the spending 
pattern on this credit card (immediately maxing out the limit on gambling), and that similar 
spending was occurring on her current account and other credit cards; and that Miss M 
hadnt received any paid income for six months.
In view of the information that was available to Vanquis, and the information Vanquis ought 
reasonably to have discovered, Im not persuaded increasing the credit limit to £1,500 was 
sustainable borrowing for Miss M (in respect of her being able to repay the debt without 
further borrowing).
Although I accept Miss M fell within Vanquis lending criteria in respect of the credit scoring, 
that doesnt automatically mean it was responsible to lend to her. 
Miss M accepted my provisional decision, but she made the following comments: 
- Miss M reiterated she was unemployed when the account was opened. Shes still of 
the view that the first credit limit increase shouldnt have been offered, as she 
remained unemployed.- Miss M says, when closing the account, the balance was repaid by borrowing money 
from her sister. Shes pointed towards her bank account statement by way of 
evidence. Miss M says she needed help due to her financial difficulties.
- Miss M asked me to also consider the fees she was charged by Vanquis for the 
gambling transactions. She says these fees were excessive.
Vanquis made the following comments:
- In October 2014, there were four active credit lines shown on Vanquis searches, and 
in July 2015 there were six. So, Miss M may have taken out three other credit cards 
between October 2014 and July 2015, but from the available information, its likely 
one line of credit was also closed during that period.
- Vanquis searches showed that, by July 2015, no external debt repayment had been 
missed for more than two years.
- Based on data from a credit reference agency, since the account was opened Miss M 
had been making small payments towards her defaulted debt. By July 2015, whilst 
her external debt had risen from zero to £1,210, her total debt, including defaulted 
debt, had dropped from £4,534 in October 2014 to £4,083 in July 2015.
- From October 2014 to July 2015, Miss M hadnt missed a payment to her Vanquis 
account, and the statement balance had exceeded the credit limit on only one 
occasion.
- Vanquis acknowledges Miss Ms gambling transactions. However, there had been no 
change in spending habits on the card, no reliance on ATM withdrawals, and no 
reliance on short term lending such as payday loans.
- The account operated within the terms and conditions for several months after the 
second limit increase; and it appears Miss M had gained employment, because in 
December 2015, Vanquis was advised of financial difficulty due to the seasonal 
nature of her work.
- In February 2016, Vanquis received payment of £1,462 to close the account, and its 
found no evidence of this having been financed by increased external debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M still believes the first limit increase shouldnt have been offered. However, no further 
information has been provided, and I remain persuaded that the credit scoring check before 
the first credit limit increase was sufficiently proportionate and borrower-focused. So, I dont 
uphold this part of her complaint.
Vanquis has made a number of observations, but overall, my view remains unchanged. Ill 
explain why.Vanquis says at the time of the first limit increase Miss M had four active lines of credit, and 
at the time of the second limit increase she had six. However, although I acknowledge the 
summary information provided by Vanquis supports what it says, theres no details about 
what these other accounts were, and based on the two credit reports that Ive seen, Im 
persuaded its reasonable for me to base my decision on the information I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
The two credit reports show that at the time of the first limit increase, Miss M only had active 
borrowing with Vanquis and a mobile phone provider; and before the second limit increase, 
three more credit card accounts had been opened.
Im also not persuaded that Miss Ms small payments towards her defaulted debt supports 
Vanquis case. I accept this shows Miss M was, to some extent, managing her debt. But it 
also highlights that she had defaulted debt to repay, in addition to the further credit card 
accounts she had opened, by the time of the second limit increase.
Although Miss M may have had some paid employment by December 2015, the fact remains 
she had disclosed she was unemployed when the account was opened, and at the time of 
the second limit increase, she had not received any paid income for six months.
Whilst I accept Vanquis point about the card not being used for ATM withdrawals and Mrs M 
not relying on payday loans, overall, in view of the other circumstances, I remain persuaded 
that the second limit increase wasnt responsible lending. 
Miss M has asked me to consider the account charges applied to her gambling transactions. 
However, if she accepts this final decision, any interest and charges applied as a result of 
the second limit increase, will be refunded. 
If Miss M remains unhappy about the transaction charges she incurred before the second 
limit increase (because she believes the charges were excessive, rather than due to the 
lending being irresponsible) thats something she needs to raise with Vanquis in the first 
instance, so it has the opportunity to respond. The complaint Im considering here, only 
concerns Vanquis lending decisions. It doesnt concern the charges that applied to 
individual transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in 
part. My final decision is Vanquis Bank Limited should:
- rework the account as if the second increase hadnt happened, ensuring any 
additional interest and charges are refunded; and
- if the account goes into a positive balance as a result, add 8% simple interest1 on 
that amount for the duration of the positive credit balance
1If Vanquis Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from any interest paid, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also provide a certificate 
showing the amount deducted, if requested, so she can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman