DRN-3604814
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU Mutual) has voided the insurance policy she took out for her horse on the ground that 
she had made misrepresentations to it when taking out the policy.
What happened
On 2 October 2020 Mrs S contacted NFU Mutual to obtain a quote for insurance for her 
horse which Ill refer to as P. During the online quote process Mrs S was asked a number 
of questions including:
Is it currently lame, off work or suffering from any illness, injury or condition? 
Mrs S answered No to this question.  The quote was subsequently accepted, and the 
policy began, on 29 October 2020.
On or around 12 July 2021, Mrs S contacted NFU Mutual as P had become lame. NFU 
Mutual contacted Ps vet to obtain her veterinary history. The vets file notes confirmed that 
he had been to see P on 2 October 2021 and identified that she was stiff / lame. His notes 
said:
02/10/20 Clinical Note. New horse.
NAD on clincial wrt ascultation of the chest and on ophthalmic exam.
NAD on palp.
In walk stiff on LH, howver 2/10th RH lame.
In trot no change in lameness parameters. Positive to flexion RH.
Horse has had two foals and never been in work. Therefore as started work to
be pragmatic and send video in 1 week with trot up.
The vet visited again on 29 October 2021. The notes on that occasion dont appear to 
comment on Ps lameness, but when subsequently asked by NFU Mutual if P was still lame 
on 29 October the vets surgery responded:
The RH lameness/stiffness seen on 02/10/20 was still present on examination on the 
29/10/20. The pony was not in work between Oct 2020 and March 2021 therefore 
difficult to assess if the lameness was still present.
When Mrs S made her claim in July 2021,  because its quote of 2 October 2020 had been 
accepted and the policy started on 29 October 2020, the same day that the vet visited P for 
the second time, NFU Mutual referred the claim to its Policy Validation Team (PVT) for 
further investigation. 
The PVT wrote to Mrs S on 16 September 2021 and asked some questions about P. It 
wasnt satisfied with Mrs Ss responses. It considered that Ps lameness was pre-inception of 
the policy and said that had Ps condition been known at the time the policy was taken out, it 
wouldnt have offered cover. It was of the view that Mrs P had recklessly misrepresented Ps 
health. NFU Mutual therefore voided the policy and treated it as if it had never existed. It 
refunded Mrs Ss premium to her.
 As Mrs S was unhappy with NFU Mutuals decision to void the policy, not pay her claim and 
the potential consequences of having to mention this fact to other insurers, she complained 
to NFU Mutual. Her complaint wasnt upheld, so Mrs S brought it to this service. 
Our investigators view was that Mrs Ss answer of No to the relevant question asked did 
not disclose Ps lameness or that P was off work at the time. Had NFU Mutual known this, it 
wouldve told Mrs S that it wasnt able to offer cover for P. It was entitled to void her policy.
In response to our investigators view, Mrs S has explained that she hadnt seen the vets 
written records which mentioned lameness and hadnt understood him at the time to have 
identified lameness. She says hed mentioned P had stiffness and positive flexion. She says 
she answered all NFU Mutuals questions to the best of her knowledge at that time. Shes 
asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Mrs Ss complaint has therefore been passed to me to review and to provide a final decision 
from this service
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mrs Ss complaint, and Ill explain why not.
The relevant law in cases involving misrepresentation is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2021 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided that 
the misrepresentation is what CIDRA calls a qualifying representation. For it to be a 
qualifying representation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on different 
terms. or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. The remedy 
available to an insurer depends on whether the misrepresentation was careless, reckless, or 
deliberate. 
Ive considered what Mrs S has said. As part of the application process she was asked the 
specific question Ive quoted above, which I consider to be a clear question. She answered 
No. 
In my view, Mrs Ss answer of No was in relation to a number of facts  about lameness, 
about whether P was off work, and about any existing illness injury or condition. 
The vets notes on 2 October 2020 say that P was lame, and also that shed never been in 
work, which Mrs S knew. So for Mrs S to have answered No to this question was therefore 
incorrect on two grounds. There was therefore a misrepresentation.
I now need to consider if this was a qualifying misrepresentation, which involves considering 
first whether Mrs S took reasonable care when providing her answer to the question asked 
and then whether this would have made any difference to the terms of cover offered. 
 I dont consider that Mrs S took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation on two 
grounds.
1) P had seen the vet on 2 October. He had written in Ps notes that she was lame. I 
find it surprising that Mrs A says that when examining P he hadnt mentioned this to 
her. I think it more likely than not that he would have done. It was on that same date 
that Mrs S had sought a quote from NFU Mutual for insurance cover. The vet saw P 
again on 29 October and says that the lameness was still present. Mrs S doesnt say 
what she was told on that occasion, but it was on that date that she accepted NFU 
Mutuals quote and cover began. 
2) Mrs S was also aware that P had never worked, yet she said she wasnt off work. I 
consider that this information shouldve been given to NFU Mutual. 
I asked NFU Mutual what it would have done if Mrs S had answered the question Yes.
In response, it has said that it would investigate why this was the case - what the nature of 
the problem was; whether it was an illness, disease, condition or injury; the prognosis; if 
there was a vets report; if the vet had seen the horse. Cover would not be offered whilst the 
horse was not fit and healthy. But if the horse was off work because it had not been 
backed/broken in, then this would be different. Provided the horse was fit and healthy and 
had not seen the vet for anything other than routine, then it would look to offer cover, subject 
to other acceptance criteria.
So if Mrs S had answered the question accurately, NFU Mutual wouldve requested further 
information that mightve disclosed Ps lameness. 
So irrespective of whether Mrs S genuinely wasnt aware of Ps lameness on 2 and/or 29 
October 2020, the fact that P was not in work shouldve been disclosed and was not. The 
reason couldve been very relevant.
I also have to consider whether NFU Mutual wouldve offered cover to Mrs S had it known 
about the misrepresentation or would have done so but on different terms. 
NFU Mutuals underwriters have confirmed that if Mrs S had disclosed that P had lameness, 
it wouldnt have provided cover on any terms. Its said that lameness is not a condition. It is a 
description of a physical abnormality or symptom of a condition which could have many 
different causes, and its important to know what condition is causing the lameness. Pre-
existing conditions are not generally covered.
Im therefore satisfied that Mrs Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I now need to consider whether Mrs Ss misrepresentation was careless, reckless or 
deliberate. An innocent misrepresentation is no longer an option under CIDRA. NFU 
Mutual has said that Mrs Ss misrepresentation was reckless.
Under CIDRA, if the qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, the insurer can 
avoid the policy and refuse all claims and need not return any premium paid.
If the qualifying misrepresentation is careless, and the insurer wouldnt have provided the 
insurance on any terms, it may avoid the policy and refuse all claims, but it must return the 
premium paid.
NFU Mutual has voided the policy and returned Mrs Ss premium. It has followed the course 
of action dictated by CIDRA for careless misrepresentation. My conclusion is that I dont consider that NFU Mutual has acted unfairly by voiding Mrs Ss 
policy from its inception and not paying her claim for Ps treatment. I consider it has acted 
fairly in refunding her premium.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman