DRN-2925110
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision to find him at fault 
following a car accident. He said the third party he had the accident with was attempting a U-
turn on the dual carriageway and Advantage hasnt done enough to investigate the accident. 
He doesnt think its fair he has lost his excess. 
Mr K is being represented by a legal advisor, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr K throughout my 
decision. 
All references to Advantage include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ks policy said that Advantage could decide whether or not to accept liability 
for an accident. And having reviewed the evidence Advantage based its decision on, she 
said Advantage had fairly decided Mr K was at fault. 
Mr K disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he didnt have any faith in 
Advantages ability to review the evidence and that he wasnt at fault for the accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr K feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
This service doesnt decide liability for an accident; thats a matter for the courts. But we do 
consider whether an insurer, Advantage in this case, acted in accordance with the policy 
terms and made a fair decision.
Mr Ks policy says that Advantage is entitled to take over and deal with a claim on his behalf. 
Its a common term in motor insurance policies. And wed expect it to be applied fairly. 
So, Ive considered whether Advantage has treated Mr K fairly and reasonably when 
deciding if he was at fault. I note Advantage asked for further evidence from Mr K but then 
found him liable for the accident before this was returned. I can understand why Mr K was 
frustrated with that. But his testimony wasnt the only evidence Advantage used to make its 
decision. It also considered the damages on both vehicles and the location of the accident. 
Advantage decided it was unlikely that the third party attempting a U-turn in front of Mr K 
was the reason for the accident. Instead, it felt the testimony of the third party, which said he 
was merging from two lanes into one on a dual carriageway when Mr K collided with the 
back of his car, was more likely to have happened. This is because Advantage felt the 
photos of the road and damage on the vehicles showed this was the more likely version of 
events. And because there wasnt an independent witness of the collision, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Advantage to find Mr K at fault and to tell him that, in the circumstances, it 
was unlikely to be successful if liability for the incident went to court. 
So, Im not going to ask Advantage to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman