DRN-2730107
The complaint
Mr K says that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) acted unfairly when 
they recorded a default against his credit file. He says theyd agreed not to do this, and 
Barclaycard didnt tell him about the default.
What happened
Mr K held a credit card account with Barclaycard with an agreed limit of £250. In 
October 2017 he told Barclaycard that hed lost his job and was struggling to maintain 
payments.
Barclaycard called Mr K in January 2018 as hed missed some payments. He again said 
hed been out of work since June 2017 and had no money. He also told Barclaycard he had 
an injury and was suffering from mental health problems. He said he was receiving 
government support, but only a small amount. He said his main bills were overdue 
including rent payments and utilities. Mr K was referred to a specialist team at Barclaycard 
for support. He says that Barclaycard agreed not to record a default on his credit file.
Mr K called Barclaycard in February 2018 with an update. He wanted to discuss a 
payment arrangement and wanted to know what interest was being charged. Barclaycard 
confirmed that all interest and charges had been frozen. He offered to make a payment, 
but the specialist team was closed for the day. Barclaycard agreed to arrange a call back.
In June 2018, Barclaycard sent a default notice to Mr K. They said theyd not received 
any payments and he needed to pay £53.10 or contact them. As they didnt hear 
anything, Barclaycard placed Mr Ks account into default and registered this on his credit 
file
In November 2018, Mr K contacted Barclaycard again. He wanted to know how much he 
owed and what additional interest and charges hed incurred. Barclaycard confirmed again 
that interest and charges had been suspended. Mr K asked if he could make a part 
payment as an early settlement and if this would affect his credit file. Barclaycard said that 
his credit file would show that hed made a partial payment. Mr K made a payment of £25.
Barclaycard wrote to Mr K on 29 May 2019. They said hed receive a refund following a 
review of their operating procedures. This would result in his outstanding debt being 
cleared and a payment of £82.26 to him. Mr K called Barclaycard in June and July 2019 to 
discuss the letter hed received.
Late summer 2020, Mr K had a mortgage application declined. Hed also had two bank 
account applications declined in February 2020. He discovered that Barclaycard had 
recorded the default on his credit file, so he complained to them. He said that Barclaycard 
had agreed, in 2018, not to record a default on his credit file. He wanted them to remove 
the default and compensate him.
Barclaycard said their default notice had been issued correctly and so the default 
was correctly applied. They explained that Mr Ks account defaulted because they 
hadnt received any payments or contact from him and this couldnt be changed.
Mr K wasnt happy with Barclaycards reply. So, he complained to Barclaycard again. 
Barclaycard still didnt agree they shouldnt have registered the default. But they did 
agree that Mr K may not have received the best service which may have caused 
confusion. They paid compensation to Mr K of £100 to recognise any distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr K was still unhappy. He wanted the default removing from his credit file. So, he referred 
his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint. He 
didnt think Barclaycard had done anything wrong. Mr K didnt agree. So, he asked that his 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ks Barclaycard statements. During 2016, Mr K missed or was late with 
payments on at least four occasions. Each time, Barclaycard charged a fee. But on each 
occasion, that fee was refunded the following month. So, it would appear that 
Barclaycard were being flexible in the way they managed Mr Ks account.
In 2017, Mr K made minimum payments until the end of May 2017. No further 
payments were then made by Mr K until October 2017 when Barclaycard also 
refunded further charges. This reflected when Mr K first told Barclaycard about his 
circumstances.
From November 2017 to August 2018, Mr K made only one further payment of £25.00 on 
21 May 2018. Barclaycard closed his account in July 2018 with a balance owed of £265.29.
Barclaycard have provided recordings of some of their telephone conversations with Mr 
K. Not all of the calls were available. While it wouldve helped to listen to what was said 
and agreed in all calls, Barclaycard didnt record all of them or retain them indefinitely. 
They werent obliged to do so.
Barclaycard card said Mr K contacted them in October 2017 to explain he had no 
income. They said he wasnt willing to enter into a repayment plan as he didnt want it to 
affect his credit file. So, his account continued to operate under their standard terms and 
conditions.
Ive listened to Barclaycards call to Mr K on 9 January 2018. They wanted to understand 
why hed missed payments. They were clear that they were not chasing him. They just 
wanted to understand his circumstances. I believe they were trying to help. Mr K 
explained that hed been out of work since June 2017 and had very little money. He said 
that his essential bills were all overdue. Barclaycard agreed to transfer the call to their 
specialist support team.
Unfortunately, a recording of that conversation isnt available. But Mr K said that 
Barclaycard agreed not to record a default on his credit file. He said he was told to update 
them every few months. Barclaycard told us that Mr K didnt want to agree a payment, but 
he did agree to talk to a debt support charity. Barclaycard agreed to hold interest and 
charges. They confirmed this to Mr K in writing.
Ive also listened to Mr Ks call to Barclaycard on 28 February 2018. He confirmed his 
situation at the time and told them he wanted to discuss an arrangement to put in place. 
But the specialist support team werent available. So, Barclaycard agreed to call him back. 
I cant see that a payment plan was ever agreed.
The other call recordings were from Mr K to Barclaycard and were after Mr Ks account 
defaulted. On each occasion Barclaycard confirmed that no interest and charges had 
been added to the debt. Mr K also asked if he could agree a reduced settlement figure. He ultimately paid £25 on 22 November 2018.
Ive then considered whether Barclaycard acted correctly and fairly by issuing a 
default notice and recording the default on Mr Ks credit file.
Page 21 of Barclaycards terms and condition says If you miss your minimum payment 
well add a late payment fee to your accountthe following will also apply to your 
accountYour records with credit reference agencies may be affected, meaning it may be 
harder or more expensive for you to borrow in the futureMissing payments could lead to 
legal action or insolvency proceedings.
Where Mr K failed to make minimum payments, Barclaycards statements said, Failing to 
make your minimum payment can mean that you have broken the terms of this credit 
agreement and could result in us taking legal action against you. The statement also 
refers to default fees resulting from missed or late payments.
Before informing Barclaycard of his situation, Mr K had missed payments for three 
consecutive months. From November 2017 until his account was closed, only one 
payment of £25 was made. So, it appears that Barclaycards terms and conditions did 
apply here and Mr Ks account was in default.
The rules and standards that apply to how Barclaycard handle Mr Ks financial difficulties 
are detailed in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), Section 7. It says that lenders should consider consumers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For example, this might include:
Suspending or waiving future charges  Barclaycard did that here,
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payment 
to be unsustainable  they said they werent chasing a payment in their call in 
January 2018,
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period in order to allow Mr K to 
recover from an unexpected reduction in income  Mr K wasnt willing to enter 
into a reduced payment agreement,
Inform Mr K that free debt advice is available and provide details  Barclaycard 
did that here,
Not pressuring borrowers to make unreasonably large payments with an 
adverse impact on their financial position  I cant see that Barclaycard did 
that here.
A default is when someone fails to meet their financial obligations under an agreement. Its 
generally when arrears have built up to an unacceptable level and is commonly between 
three and six months of arrears. Mr K failed to make minimum payments for 11 of the 14 
months before his account was closed, so appears to have defaulted against the 
agreement.
Barclaycard have provided a copy of the default notice sent to Mr K dated 25 June 2018. 
This is a legal document and is required to be sent to the last address held for Mr K. The 
address used is the same one Mr K provided to this service. I appreciate that Mr K says 
he didnt receive this. But as its correctly address, I cant reasonably hold Barclaycard 
responsible if it wasnt ultimately delivered. Once posted, they wouldnt have any control 
over this.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says, when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default must be registered. And it would expect 
the default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind. So, while Mr K 
believes that Barclaycard agreed not to register a default, Barclaycard were obliged to 
record a default of the credit card agreement when they did. They have accepted that the service that Mr K received may have led to some confusion. So, they paid compensation 
of £100. I believe this was a fair resolution in the circumstances here.
Mr Ks debt has now been fully repaid as a result of the refund referred to in Barclaycards 
letter of 29 May 2019. Its important to recognise that this refund resulted from 
Barclaycards proactive review of their past procedures. They said these differed from how 
they would support customers today. But this doesnt negate the fact that Mr K did have a 
Barclaycard debt on which he defaulted, and Barclaycard acted in accordance with their 
terms and conditions and the card agreement. The default represents what actually 
happened and Mr Ks credit file must reflect this.
I appreciate that Mr K will be disappointed, but based upon what Ive seen, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the default and the record on his credit file were either 
inappropriate or inaccurate. So, I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
Dave Morgan
 
Ombudsman