DRN-1734488
The complaint
Mr D has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) mis-sold a private medical 
insurance (PMI) policy to him in 2017. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have had PMI with AXA for the family since 2006 and have renewed their 
cover each year. Any reference to AXA includes its agents and representatives. 
In 2017, AXA told Mr D that the plan he was on (the Secure Health Options plan) was no 
longer being offered. And it offered an alternative plan which was the most comparable. The 
annual premium increased from £5,335.32 to £6,208.08. Mr D removed one of his children 
which brought the premium down.
Mr Ds premium rose again in 2018 and Mr D complained to say that AXA had mis-sold the 
policy as he wasnt told about the no claims discount (NCD) and thought the new plan was 
the same as the old plan. Mr D complained to AXA and it sent a final response to his 
complaint confirming that the old plan was no longer available and the new plan was the 
closes alternative in terms of cover. It said the renewal paperwork confirmed the key 
differences between the two plans and highlighted the NCD on the new plan.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
didnt think AXA had done anything wrong as it hadnt treated Mr D differently to other 
customers and the plan he had been put on was the closest match to the old one he was on.
Mr D disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as explained by the investigator. 
AXA wrote to Mr D in 2017 to confirm that the Secure Health Options plan was no longer 
being offered and the closest alternative was the Personal Health Plan. The renewal 
paperwork confirmed the old plan was no longer available and that the plan used an NCD 
scheme.
Mr D says he is being unfairly penalised and feels that AXA is trying to price him out of the 
market as he cant get cover elsewhere due to his pre-existing conditions and previous 
claims. Mr D wanted to know if he would be paying the same higher premiums now if hed 
been kept on the old plan. But AXA has explained that the old plan has closed and so no 
further pricing reviews have been done for the plan. So it isnt possible to say what the 
premiums would have been. Mr D also thinks AXA moved him onto a plan with higher premiums as it knew he couldnt 
move insurers due to his pre-existing condition and claims history. AXA explained that the 
old policy was discontinued for all members and not just Mr D. AXA also confirmed that even 
if Mr D has refused to move onto the new plan, he wouldnt have the option of remaining on 
the old plan as it was closed to all customers.
On that basis, I dont think AXA has treated Mr D unfairly as it hasnt treated him any 
differently to other customers on the same plan. 
Mr D thinks AXA has mis-sold the plan to him. But Ive seen that the old plan was an annual 
contract and the policy paperwork confirmed: Your policy is for one year. Prior to the end of 
any policy year we will write to the policyholder to advise on what terms the policy will 
continue, provided the policy you are on is still available. 
So from this, Mr D was aware that the plan only lasted a year at a time and AXA could make 
changes to any part of the policy and Mr D would be given reasonable notice of any 
changes. 
In September 2017, AXA sent Mr D a renewal notice highlighting the key differences 
between the old and new plan. It said the new plan had an NCD scheme and explained how 
this worked. Following this, Mr D spoke to AXA a number of times after receiving the renewal 
notice and his main concern was with the cost of premiums. AXA explained that the only way 
to lower the premium was to change cover levels but Mr D didnt want to do this. Mr D told 
AXA he had asked another intermediary to look at other cover options.
Mr D says he wasnt told about the NCD during the phone calls and that he wasnt given the 
option of NCD protection. But Mr D wasnt eligible for NCD protection due to his claims 
history and the NCD scheme was clearly highlighted in the renewal documents. 
Based on the above, I dont think AXA mis-sold the plan to Mr D as it clearly set out the 
differences between the two plans in the renewal paperwork. And there wasnt an alternative 
option for Mr D to buy NCD protection or move onto a policy with no NCD. So Mr D would 
always have to pay higher premiums based on any claims made due to the way the NCD 
worked. And he was aware that he could shop around as he has instructed an intermediary 
to look at alternative options and had also mentioned another insurer in one of his calls. 
I appreciate that finding alternative cover with another insurer would be difficult due to Mr Ds 
pre-existing conditions and claims history. But as AXA drew sufficient attention to the 
features of the new policy and explained it was the most comparable to the old policy, I dont 
think it mis-sold the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman