DRN-3991071
The complaint
Mr D complains that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim he made under his buildings 
insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to Covea includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr D made a claim for subsidence damage in 2018. Covea accepted the claim and 
carried out drainage repairs. It may also have carried out some building repairs but in 
February 2022 it settled the claim by paying Mr D to arrange the remaining repairs.
In October 2022, Mr D noticed the damage return. He got back in touch with Covea, 
but it didnt think it was responsible for the recent damage. It said no evidence of 
poor workmanship by its contractors had been provided.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied Covea 
had handled the original claim fairly  it had identified trees as the cause of the 
subsidence movement but hadnt dealt with them before moving to repairs. He asked 
it to consider the claim as a reoccurrence and pay £250 compensation.
Mr D said he didnt think the compensation went far enough to cover the stress hed 
suffered thinking his house might not be structurally sound. Covea said it disagreed 
but, despite our investigator asking it to explain why, it didnt add anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the original damage was caused by subsidence and covered 
under the policy.
In 2019, after carrying out investigations, Covea said there were drainage defects. I 
understand it had them repaired but it said they were a contributory factor and we do 
not believe that it is the principal causative factor. It went on to say, moisture 
extraction by nearby vegetation is the most likely cause.
Covea appointed an arborist who concurred with this and identified two trees it 
thought were causing the movement. It recommended pruning both of them, carrying 
out monitoring, and if movement continued, to review the recommendation. Covea 
got in touch with the owner of the trees to ask it to prune them in order to achieve 
stability. I understand the trees werent pruned. Nonetheless, Covea proceeded to 
settle the claim.
When handling a claim for subsidence, I would expect Covea to ensure a lasting and 
effective repair of the damage is achieved. To do this, the building must be stabilised. 
It took steps towards that by repairing the drains  but it didnt deal with what it 
considered to be the main cause of the movement.
Covea has provided no evidence to show it changed its recommendations and/or 
achieved lasting stability without the trees being pruned.
The damage returned within nine months of settling the claim. Im not satisfied that 
amounts to carrying out a lasting and effective repair  especially in the context of a 
subsidence claim, where I think its reasonable to expect the structure of the building 
to remain stable for significantly longer than nine months.
In these circumstances, I dont think the onus was on Mr D to show poor 
workmanship by Coveas contractors  it was on Covea to look into why the damage 
had returned. If it had been able to show the building was stable but the problem 
related to work carried out by Mr Ds contractors, I may have reached a different 
outcome. But Covea hasnt taken any steps to look into the return of the damage.
Given it hasnt shown it achieved stability, I can only conclude its likely that 
movement has continued and Covea hasnt dealt with the claim fairly.
To put things right, Covea should continue dealing with the claim and ensure it 
carries out a lasting and effective repair. To do that, it should consider whether the 
trees remain the cause of the movement and/or whether any other factors are 
relevant. It should then take steps to stabilise the building before settling the claim.
As Covea will be dealing with the damage as a continuation of the original claim, it 
shouldnt log a second claim and/or charge a second excess. The remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy the claim was originally made under still apply.
It would have been distressing for Mr D to think the claim was settled  and then to 
see the damage return soon after. I think Covea should compensate him for that and 
Im satisfied £250 is reasonable in the circumstances. Its clear hes been concerned 
about the stability of the building and the impact that might have on him if its not 
dealt with. Once Covea has provided a lasting and effective repair, it will have put 
those concerns right.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Covea Insurance plc to:
Continue dealing with the claim, as set out above.
Pay £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman