DRN-2274722
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled a claim she 
made on her travel insurance policy. 
Any references to URV include its representatives and cost containment agents.  
Background
Mrs T bought a travel insurance policy underwritten by URV to cover a trip to the United 
States (US). 
Mrs T went to Florida in 2014 with her daughter aged 12. Her daughter had to have 
emergency treatment including an operation for appendicitis in hospital (the healthcare 
provider). She stayed in hospital for a number of days. 
Mrs T contacted URV and it accepted the claim. 
URV has made part payment towards the following invoices:
Invoice from Florida hospital EMS for $ 831 - URV has paid $627.07
Invoice from Florida hospital for $49,544.61  URV has paid $13,436.82
Invoice from JLR Anaesthesia Associates for $1,750  URV has paid $350.55
Mrs Ts daughter is now 18 years old. Mrs T has recently received a demand for payment for 
$36,107.79 from a Swiss based debt collector on behalf of Florida hospital, addressed to her 
daughter. 
URV has corresponded with the debt collector about the bills and has said the hospital costs 
are unreasonable and inflated. It has said Mrs T has been overcharged and it has evidence 
of this. The debt collector has asked URV for this evidence but URV hasnt provided this. 
The debt collectors have confirmed Mrs T has been charged the same as other patients who 
have had the same treatment as her daughter. 
Mrs T continues to receive correspondence from the debt collectors and complained to URV. 
Unhappy with URVs response, Mrs T referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said URV hadnt provided clear evidence to 
show that the costs claimed were unreasonable or excessive and there was no evidence of 
any meaningful negotiation between URV and the hospital. He recommended that URV 
should pay the outstanding amount in full (or reach an immediate agreed settlement) and 
also pay £300 compensation for the stress and upset caused as a result of the repeat 
demands for payment. 
URV responded and said:
Mrs T and her daughter have no financial liability for any costs  but they are likely to 
continue to receive future correspondence from the debt collectors. 
In the unlikely event that the medical providers or the debt collectors pursue the 
matter far enough to make payment necessary, the insurer will pay in full.
It will not pay grossly excessive costs and will safeguard itself against medical 
providers inflating medical charges.
If insurers allow medical facilities to overcharge, the price of insurance premiums will 
rise and it will be more expensive for consumers to purchase cover.
The charges raised are far in excess of the actual cost of providing service and can 
be inflated by 500% or more.
URV has contributed costs which have been audited and has paid what it considers a 
fair and reasonable settlement, in line with USA government guidelines.
Some hospitals choose to route their bill to Swiss debt collectors for the sole purpose 
of more income. However, they dont have the power to do anything in the UK so 
their calls can and should be ignored and blocked and letters should be sent to URV 
unanswered. They also have no legal standing in the US - so Mrs T or her daughter 
should not worry.
URV appreciates it must be very alarming for Mrs T to receive chasers for payments 
which remain outstanding and as URV hasnt changed its position in relation to the 
unpaid bills, it is willing to double the compensation amount awarded by the 
investigator to £600.
Mrs T responded to URVs offer and rejected it. She made the following points:
The debt collector has assured her that the bill is still open for negotiation and has 
sent emails to URV.
Mrs T is not seeking compensation despite the money, time and stress over 6 years 
 she just wants the bill to be settled for her daughters sake. 
Mrs T doesnt accept URVs assurance that there is nothing to be concerned about or 
that they dont have any financial liability.
Mrs Ts daughter plans to study in the US in two years time and is worried about 
needing treatment at a hospital while she has a huge unsettled bill.
The hospital has said that the government rates URV has used are for emergency 
treatment for patients without insurance and these rates have no basis in reality for 
the market they are operating in.
URV keep sending emails to the hospital asking them to prove why their rates are 
higher  URV knows the hospital wont respond and it therefore needs to negotiate 
with the debt collectors directly.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 27 August 2020. Ill repeat my provisional findings here:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Mrs Ts complaint 
should be upheld and largely for the same reasons as already outlined by the investigator. 
As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mrs T against losses 
covered by the policy as and when the amount of her loss (here the amount of Mrs Ts 
liability to the healthcare provider) has been ascertained. That may be by agreement, by 
court judgment or by arbitration. So URV has a commercial interest in being able to take 
over the defence and settlement of such claims in Mrs Ts name. 
URVs policy terms say it can:take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement of any claim made 
under the policy.
In effect, this means URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  defending or 
settling it  in the name of Mrs T. But that isnt an unqualified right. 
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mrs Ts, URV has a responsibility to 
act in good faith when it takes over the defence/settlement of a claim  having regard to Mrs 
Ts interests as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt entitled to act arbitrarily in the 
way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of the invoice and contesting the 
outstanding amount. In deciding whether  and how  to settle or defend  claims against Mrs 
T, URV is required to base its decision on the circumstances of Mrs Ts individual case. 
The applicable regulations lead to a similar conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly; 
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and 
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses (the Principles) and the detailed rules 
require providers and distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to treat 
customers fairly. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the impact of their actions, 
or inactions, on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the service being provided.
I also find it appropriate to take into account what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance  and their 
agents  to engage diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over 
medical bills by actively seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. That includes 
actively engaging in negotiation. 
Ill now explain what this means for Mrs Ts complaint. 
URV says the USA government annually issues the congressional guidelines (the 
guidelines) which set out the suggested rates of payment for medical procedures and 
treatment. URV says it uses the guidelines as a benchmark when deciding whether the 
amounts charged are reasonable. It says it then pays a certain percentage above this, which 
its disclosed to our Service.
URV has accepted responsibility for the sums properly due under the invoices and hasnt 
said that any of the procedures which are itemised, shouldnt have been charged for  or shouldnt be paid at all. It has simply said the amounts charged are unreasonably excessive. 
Its sought to reply on the guidelines to support the amounts it has paid to the healthcare 
provider for the medical care Mrs Ts daughter received in 2014. 
Our investigator asked URV for evidence of the guidelines it had relied on. URV has 
provided a screenshot from its system with some figures and dates but no further 
explanation. And it hasnt provided a link to the guidelines it has referred to. 
Ive looked at the costs charged, and the screenshot provided by URV, but I havent been 
provided with a clear explanation of how URV has used the information in the guidelines it 
has referred to and the screenshots provided together to reach a conclusion on what a 
reasonable payment would be.
Without any clear information and data showing which figures URV has used for each code 
on the invoices, Im not satisfied that the items charged for on the invoices are equivalent to 
those drawn by URV from the guidelines or correspond to figures for the particular state of 
the US (Florida) where Mrs Ts daughter received emergency treatment. Nor, have I been 
shown anything to convince me that the guidelines establish a valid benchmark for the fair 
market value of services provided outside the US Medicare/Medicaid systems to which they 
relate. So Im not persuaded the invoices are grossly excessive or out of line with what might 
be charged. 
But in any case, even if the guidelines do support URVs decision to not pay the outstanding 
amount, Im not satisfied it has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it has handled Mrs Ts 
claim. 
Ive seen correspondence from Mrs T to URV since submitting the claim, asking URV to pay 
the outstanding amount. Mrs T is concerned that this will affect her daughters ability to 
access any treatment or care she may need whilst studying in the US due to the outstanding 
bills. And although URV has given Mrs T some reassurances, she is still worried and 
concerned by the correspondence she continues to receive from the debt collectors on a 
regular basis. 
The policy allows URV to take over, and deal with the defence/settlement of any claim made 
under the policy in Mrs Ts name. But I do expect it to do so in a fair and reasonable way  
and I must have regard to the law, the relevant industry rules and regulations, and good 
practice. URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly and to act with due skill, 
care and diligence, paying due regard to Mrs Ts interests and treating her fairly. I dont think 
its done that in this case.
URV took a unilateral decision to only pay part of the invoices. I havent seen any evidence 
that it discussed its approach with Mrs T before doing so. In its final response to Mrs Ts 
complaint, URV said: when dealing with hospitals in the United States, negotiation of bills is 
essential. But there is no evidence that URV has attempted to negotiate with the healthcare 
provider or the debt collector. 
Whilst nobody could suggest that negotiation will lead to a reasonable settlement being 
achieved in every case, in many cases it may do so; and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it 
couldnt have been productive in this case. Before negotiation is abandoned in a case like 
this, I would normally expect to see an insurer explain and justify its position by reference to 
the particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives and advance 
arguments addressed to the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the healthcare 
provider to accept the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise. Bearing in mind the rules and regulations set out above, I havent seen any evidence that 
URV has sufficiently engaged with the hospital or the debt collector. And it didnt actively 
seek a compromise or actively engage in negotiation even though it said it would in its final 
response to the complaint. So I consider this to be unreasonable and unfair to Mrs T.
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly manage any 
conflicts between its own interests and those of Mrs T. I dont think it has had due regard to 
Mrs Ts interests here. And I think it has unreasonably put its own commercial interests 
above hers without considering her specific circumstances. 
I dont think its fair to continue to subject Mrs T or her daughter to a protracted dispute 
considering the length of time this has gone on for and the continuing trouble and worry this 
is causing to her. Mrs T is concerned about the effect on her daughter and I dont think URV 
has considered the impact of its actions as it is required to do. 
Ive considered everything URV has said as outlined above. But URV doesnt have the 
absolute right to partially settle or defend a case in accordance with its own practices or 
interests  it still must act fairly and reasonably when doing so  and must have regard to the 
interests of the policyholder. I dont think its done that here.
Mrs T is being chased regularly by debt collectors and URV has told Mrs T to ignore any 
correspondence and forward it on. But I dont think its fair and reasonable that Mrs T has 
been put in this position. She purchased travel insurance which covers medical attention and 
she doesnt expect to be exposed, without a very good reason, to continuing action from 
debt collectors years after visiting an overseas hospital and meeting the excess under the 
policy  and looking at the circumstances of this case, URV doesnt seem to have 
considered the impact of this on Mrs T. 
putting things right 
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is 
URV.
DISP 3.7.11R also provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV to take 
such steps in relation to the complaint as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken. 
I accept that, because the healthcare providers bill hasnt been agreed or adjudicated, there 
isnt an ascertained legal liability on Mrs T to pay the balance of the bill to the healthcare 
provider, so URVs duty to indemnify her by paying that balance hasnt been triggered. But in 
this particular case, Im persuaded its fair and reasonable for URV to do so.
Thats because, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think there is sufficient evidence 
that the invoices were grossly excessive, and, I dont think URV has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way in which it has taken over the handling of the defence or settlement of 
the healthcare providers claim against Mrs T. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to 
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the healthcare provider and agree a figure 
less than the outstanding amount. However, its had since 2014 to do so, and hasnt. And so 
in the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for 
URV to settle the outstanding amount without further delay. Mrs T isnt being chased for the invoice from JLR Anaesthesia Associates and so Im not 
asking URV to pay this. However if Mrs T does begin to be chased for this, I would expect 
URV to be aware that the duties I have described above continue to apply to it and that if it 
breaches those in future its conduct after the date of this decision could give Mrs T grounds 
for a fresh complaint.
URV had made an offer of compensation on the basis that Mrs T agreed that its position 
hadnt changed. But Mrs T doesnt agree with URVs position and rejected URVs offer. Our 
investigator had said £300 was reasonable for the worry and upset caused by its actions 
which I consider is reasonable in the circumstances of this case when taken together with 
the direction that I intend to make. 
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mrs T accepts our final decision I direct 
URV to:
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any interest 
due on the outstanding amount and any collection fees Mrs T is liable for, and
pay Mrs T £300 compensation for the trouble and upset, if this hasnt already been 
paid.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides have responded to my provisional findings, which I adopt as part of this final 
decision. Mrs T has accepted my provisional decision along with the compensation I said I 
intended to direct. But URV had put forward a further offer to Mrs T, which she has rejected. 
URV offered to pay Mrs T an additional £300 compensation and said it would attempt to 
settle the bill within three months.
Mrs T says URV has already had long enough to sort this out and it isnt considering the 
effect this has had and it should be settled as quickly as possible. 
URV also made some further points which Id like to address here:
There is a very real interest for all insureds that cost containment is allowed to 
operate effectively. Without this, the cost of insurance will increase for all insureds 
that seek to travel to high cost countries, such as the US.
A decision by this service to force an insurer to pay significant disputed costs on the 
basis that a debt collection agency has harassed an insured will likely embolden 
these agencies into increasing the potential detriment of other insureds and URV is  
keen to mitigate this.
Ive considered URVs points very carefully again. My provisional decision sets out all the 
facts and circumstances as well as the rules and regulations I have considered. If insurers 
handle a dispute properly then they are fully entitled not to pay the bill for so long as the 
negotiation or dispute has been handled in a way that pays proper regard to the interests of 
the insured. My decision explains why I think URV should pay the costs in this particular 
case, taking into consideration the length of time that this matter has been outstanding. In 
addition URV has had the course of this investigation to attempt negotiations and open 
dialogue with the healthcare provider or debt collector and I dont think any further time is 
reasonable. As Mrs T hasnt accepted URVs offer, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. I agree that URV has had long enough to settle this bill and so it shouldnt delay 
matters any further. As I indicated in my PD, Im going to make a direction that URV has to 
implement within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mrs T accepts this decision. 
By the end of that period it must pay the bill in full. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint. Within 28 days 
from the date on which we tell it that Mrs T accepts our final decision, I direct Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to:
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any interest 
due on the outstanding amount and any collection fees Mrs T is liable for, and
pay Mrs T £300 compensation for the trouble and upset, if this hasnt already been 
paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman