DRN-3635971
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about HDI Global Specialty SEs decision to decline their buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to HDI also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy doesnt cover any loss or damage arising from defective design, defective
materials or faulty workmanship.
HDI confirmed the foundations of the conservatory were 690mm but relevant building 
regulations recommend a minimum depth of 750mm. And therefore, it declined the 
claim based on the above exclusion.
Although building regulations dont apply to all conservatories, this does provide a 
guide to the depths that need to be considered to keep the structure stable.
However, I also consider the extension stood for around 20 years without any issues. 
And considering this along with the difference in between the two depths, I think it 
broadly complies with the regulations. I also think I think its more likely than not, if 
there were issues with the foundations, they would have presented themselves 
sooner.
The conservatory wasnt built to the same depth as the main building, but Ive not 
seen anything that persuades me it had to be. And HDI have not pointed to anything 
specific that shows this was a requirement.
The information available supports that roots found at a depth of 2,500mm are the 
cause of the damage. So, I also consider had the depths been the same as the main 
property, its more likely than not the damage would still have occurred. 
HDI has also referenced guidance from a provider of building warranties. The policy 
doesnt set out any requirement to adhere to these standards. And HDI have not 
provided anything that persuades me the conservatory was subject to them when it 
was built. So, I dont think this guidance is relevant here.
So for the reasons Ive set out above I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I dont think 
HDI have applied the exclusion fairly. It should now consider the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman