DRN-4020820
The complaint
Mr B complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs actions when blocking his account, 
subsequently closing it and returning the money back to its original source. Mr B is also 
unhappy HSBC have recorded a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
Mr B held an account with HSBC. Around March 2022, Mr B decided to sell a watch on a 
third-party platform and his HSBC account was used to receive payment when the watch 
was sold. The buyer sent the money in separate transactions, and after seeing the watch, 
didnt want to go ahead with the purchase, so asked for the money to be returned to a 
different account from where it was originally sent from. Mr B said he was allowed to keep 
£500 of the money for the inconvenience of the watch not selling. Mr B didnt have internet 
banking so had to go to the HSBC to make the transfer. On the same day as receiving the 
fraudulent money into the account, Mr B withdrew around £12,000 in cash.
Mr B says he called HSBC to check the legitimacy of the money received into his account, 
and says he was assured everything was fine.
HSBC received a fraud report concerning the payments in question, and therefore blocked 
Mr Bs account. As part of their investigation, they asked Mr B for evidence of the sale advert 
and further clarification relating to the sale. Mr B said hed provided this evidence in branch 
beforehand, but was unable to provide anything further as the potential buyer had now 
blocked him from the site he used to sell the watch on. Mr B also explained that the £12,000 
he withdrew was money he was expecting from a solicitor following an accident and he 
withdrew this money to pay off debts amongst other things, as well handing over £2,000 of 
this to the potential watch buyers.
Mr Bs account remained blocked while HSBC continued with the review. They did, however, 
inform Mr B he could access his benefits money from his account by attending branch with 
photographic identification. 
A few days later, Mr B reported a burglary to the police  he says his safe was raided at 
home and the watch, amongst other things, was stolen. Mr B informed HSBC. He told our 
service he believes the burglary is linked to the potential buyers of the watch.
Following the review, HSBC decided to close Mr Bs account and register a Credit Industry 
Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against him. Mr B says he feels he has been a 
victim as he has lost out on the watch, and around £6,000 of his money. 
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think HSBC had acted unfairly. In summary, he 
said they were entitled to review, block and close the account and was satisfied the CIFAS 
marker had been applied correctly.
Mr B didnt agree. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I dont believe its necessary to address each and every point made in order to meet 
my statutory duty to determine this complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, 
and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress however 
that Ive considered everything that Mr B and HSBC have said before reaching my
decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive
information. Some of the information HSBC has provided is information that we
considered should be kept confidential.
Firstly, HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their
legal and regulatory obligations. HSBC decided to review Mr Bs account when the
credits received into Mr Bs account were reported as fraudulent from another bank. Im
satisfied HSBC were entitled to carry out a review based on this information and Im
pleased they asked Mr B for evidence to support their review.
Mr B provided HSBC with what he believes to be sufficient evidence. Mr B explained that he 
sold a watch which belonged to his family member. The money received into Mr Bs account 
for the watch was received in three separate transactions, and when the buyer changed their 
mind, the money was taken out, but Mr B was allowed to keep £500 for the inconvenience. 
He has also since supplied our service with screenshots to show a conversation between 
him and the buyer of the watch. Mr B has also explained that he received some money from 
an accident and withdrew money to give to his mother and pay off debts. 
Its important banks and building societies complete thorough investigations to ensure
theyre adhering to their legal and regulatory obligations. In Mr Bs case, I agree the
evidence he supplied isnt adequate. I say that because Mr B hasnt been able to show a
legitimate account of the sale of the watch, or anything between him and his family member 
to confirm the direction to sell the watch on their behalf. Mr B also hasnt got a copy of the 
authentication of the watch. Taking all of this into account, alongside the fraud reports HSBC 
received, I cant fairly agree HSBC should therefore ignore the need for further necessary 
evidence. So, while I recognise this has left Mr B in a difficult position as he doesnt have the 
money or the watch, HSBC have a duty to protect and they wouldnt be doing that if they 
gave the money to Mr B without sufficient evidence. So, I cant say theyve done anything 
wrong.
HSBC decided to end their banking relationship with Mr B by closing his account. And
theyre entitled to do that under the terms and conditions of the account. I appreciate
Mr B feels he is at a loss of around £6,300 but Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, HSBC took the appropriate action as there isnt any sufficient evidence to show Mr B 
is entitled to the money in question. I also havent seen anything which clearly shows Mr B is 
missing £6,300. I appreciate Mr B has also mentioned a burglary  so if the missing funds 
are in relation to this, I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible.
Was the fraud marker applied fairly? 
When a business is a member of CIFAS it can record a marker against an individual 
customer when that customer has used their account fraudulently. This type of marker will stay on record for six years and will usually make it difficult for a customer to take out new 
financial products as Mr B has said hes encountered. In order to file such a marker, HSBC 
arent required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of a fraud or financial 
crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and] 
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that either there was an 
attempt to put fraudulent funds into Mr Bs account or fraudulent funds have entered Mr Bs 
account and were either moved on or retained. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong 
evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment 
and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered 
against someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity. 
HSBC received fraud reports from a third-party bank relating to the payments which had 
entered Mr Bs account. Therefore, I dont consider it to be in dispute that the funds that 
entered Mr Bs account were fraudulent and he didnt have any legitimate reason to receive 
these into his account. So, I have carefully considered whether HSBC could conclude he 
was deliberately dishonest in the receipt and utilisation of these funds and not an unwitting 
money mule. Having done so, I do think there is enough evidence to suggest that HSBC 
could reasonably conclude Mr B had been deliberately dishonest. Ill explain why: 
Mr B has told both HSBC and our service that he received money into his account 
due to the sale of a watch. The money which entered the account came in in 
separate transactions, and Mr Bs version of events say that he had to transfer the 
money back out to accounts when the buyer changed his mind  however the buyer 
allowed Mr B to keep £500 worth of funds for his inconvenience. 
Mr B didnt have access to internet banking to be able to transfer the money back 
out, so says he had to attend a HSBC branch to make the transfer. Mr B said he got 
burgled on his way to the HSBC branch, and also says he gave the potential buyers 
around £2,000 in cash from the £12,000 he withdrew himself.
I havent seen any evidence of the burglary on the way to the HSBC branch, or that 
Mr B handed over £2,000 cash. I appreciate Mr Bs comments on this but I find his 
story contradictory in parts.
While Mr B has since been able to provide screenshots of a conversation between 
him and the seller of the watch, I dont find this evidence explains the full 
circumstances of what happened  or explains why the money received into Mr Bs 
account was then reported as fraudulent.
Mr B has explained that the watch he sold belonged to one of his family members 
who had owned it for around 17 years. I havent seen any evidence of the watch 
itself, or original purchase or authentication receipts which I would expect for a watch 
of such high value.
Mr B said he was willing to keep £500 of the money when the buyer wanted the 
money returned  I havent seen anything to show Mr B questioned why the money 
came from different accounts and needed to be returned elsewhere. I also dont think 
its reasonable to keep £500 from a complete stranger to the non-purchase of an 
item. I appreciate Mr B says this offer was to recognise the inconvenience caused, 
but I dont find it plausible that Mr B thought this was legitimate. In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Bs account was used to receive and pass on fraudulent 
funds. Based on all of the available evidence and arguments, Im more persuaded that Mr B 
was an active participant in what happened as I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me 
that the sale of the watch legitimately took place, and no reasonable explanation as to why 
the money was to be returned to different accounts or why Mr B was willing to keep £500. 
So, I think it was fair for HSBC to register the appropriate fraud marker.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman