DRN-3597023
The complaint
This complaint is brought by the estate of Mrs J about the refusal of a claim under her pet 
insurance policy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
What happened
In July 2020, Mrs Js dog was diagnosed with bronchitis. Sometime later, Mrs J submitted a 
claim to Red Sands for the treatment costs. Red Sands refused the claim. It said the dog 
had first shown signs of a cough in April 2020 and as this was before the start date of the 
policy (i.e. 1 June 2020) the claim is excluded from cover. 
Mrs Js estate is very unhappy about this. They do not consider the dog had a pre-existing 
condition; the dog was treated for a cough in April 2020 but this was not linked to the 
condition claimed for later. Mrs Js estate also says the dog was not ill when the policy was 
taken out and if he had been, Mrs J would have stayed with her previous insurer (which 
would then have covered the claim) and not taken out the policy with Red Sands. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, as she considered that Red Sands was entitled to refuse the claim. 
Mrs Js estate does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been 
passed to me. Mrs Js estate has made a number of submissions, including that: 
the dog was diagnosed with kennel cough in April 2020 and there is no proof this was 
linked to the later diagnosis of bronchitis. 
Mrs J was not aware of any existing medical conditions when she bought the policy.
The documentation sent to Mrs J after she took out the policy online asked her to call 
if the dog had ever been to the vet but this ought to have been asked earlier in the 
process of taking out a policy. 
In any case, most if not all policyholders would have to call Red Sands at this point 
because the majority of them would have had to take their pet to the vet at some 
point in time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Js policy provides cover for vet fees but also says: 
What is not insured?
Any illness or condition which is present or has clinical signs or symptoms before taking the
policy out or occurs in the first 14 days of the policy.
The policy also defines a condition as being: 
any manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or resulting from 
the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body 
affected. 
This is not unusual or unfair in my opinion and the terms are set out reasonably clearly. Most 
pet insurance policies have similar exclusions, for claims made soon after the policy begins, 
as well as for conditions that exist before the start of the policy. 
The above term means it is not necessary for any condition to have been diagnosed, or for 
Mrs J to have been aware that her dog had a particular condition, for it to fall within this 
definition and exclusion. But the symptoms which occur before the start of the policy must be 
a clinical sign or symptom of the condition claimed for. So in this case, this means that Red 
Sands must establish (that it is more likely than not) that the problems in April 2020 were 
related to the bronchitis diagnosed in July 2020. And it is not necessary for Red Sands to 
establish that Mrs J knew her dog was suffering from any condition when she took out the 
policy in order to rely on this term.  
The dog was seen by the vet in April 2020. The vets notes show he prescribed some 
medication and recorded kennel cough? It seems to me the vets notes show he thought 
the cough was possibly a result of a kennel cough infection but no formal diagnosis of kennel 
cough was made. I accept that Mrs J might have left that consultation believing the dog had 
kennel cough but as stated, it doesnt matter what she thought the condition was, only 
whether it was clinically linked. 
Mrs J took the dog back to the vet on 6 July 2020. The vets notes from that consultation  
say the dog was Still coughing and the same medications were dispensed again. As the 
cough still did not resolve, the vet carried out further tests, including a referral for x-rays 
which were carried out on 23 July 2020, when it was recorded bronchitis seen.
While there was no formal diagnosis of bronchitis until July 2020, so after the policy had 
started, the cough that was present in April 2020, seems to have continued and resulted in 
the diagnosis of bronchitis in July 2020. I can see that the cough then continued and did not 
respond to treatment as well as the vet had anticipated, according to the notes, until January 
2021.
There is no convincing evidence that the dog had an entirely separate kennel cough 
infection in April 2020, which resolved before the policy started in June 2020. In my opinion, 
the relatively close proximity in time between April and July 2020 and the references to the 
cough still being present, means Red Sands is entitled to consider the April 2020 symptoms 
to be linked to the later claim. I am therefore satisfied Red Sands is entitled to rely on the 
above terms to refuse the claim. 
Mrs Js estate has also said that she would not have taken out this policy if she had known 
the dog was suffering with an illness, as she would have continued with her previous insurer 
if she had. Mrs Js estate has also suggested Red Sands should have done more to ensure 
she knew the risks of taking out the policy and what might be considered a pre-existing 
condition. 
I think the policy terms relied on are reasonably clear and as stated above, are common to 
most pet insurance policies. Indeed most insurance policies do not cover incidents or events 
that have already started, as the purpose of insurance generally is to cover unforeseen and 
unexpected events. 
The documentation issued to Mrs J after she took out the policy asked her to call Red Sands 
if the dog has ever been taken to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations. Theres no evidence Mrs J did contact Red Sands.  But I dont think it would have made any 
difference to the outcome of this complaint, or her decision to take this policy even if she had 
done so, as I accept Mrs J thought the dog had kennel cough in April 2020 and not an 
ongoing medical condition. So Mrs J was not seeking cover for an existing medical condition 
and would have just declared an incidence of kennel cough, which I have no reason to think 
would have changed anything. Based on that, it seems to me that Red Sands and Mrs J 
would have still continued the policy. I do not think Red Sands did anything wrong here. 
Mrs J may well have not realised the dog was suffering from an illness that would lead to a 
claim at the time she took out this policy. However, I do not think this means Red Sands 
should be required to disregard the policy terms. As stated above, the terms require a link 
between the clinical symptoms in April and July 2020 and do not require knowledge or 
diagnosis of any particular condition. I do appreciate this may seem unfair to Mrs Js estate, 
given she had cover with another insurer that might have covered this claim if she had 
stayed with them but that does not mean that Red Sands did anything wrong in providing the 
policy to Mrs J, or that I can require Red Sands to meet a claim which is not covered by its 
policy.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs J 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman