DRN-2739967
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) hasnt yet paid him the 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy compensation it said it was going to pay him in 
2011.
What happened
Briefly:
Mr J complained to BoS towards the latter part of 2020 that hed been mis-sold PPI on a 
loan.
BoS responded by saying that the matter had already been dealt with. It said that in July 
2011 it wrote to Mr J upholding his PPI mis-selling complaint telling him that it was offering 
him compensation  an amount of just over £2,500. BoS says it then sent Mr J a cheque for 
the amount, which it says he cashed. Because things happened many years ago, BoS can 
no longer put a trace on the payment to get the full banking details - but it has provided a 
copy of the cheque, which it says shows the cheque was cashed.
In summary Mr J says he didnt receive BoS offer letter from 2011 and he hasnt received a 
cheque for the compensation. He says it was only in 2020 when he made his complaint that 
he first understood he was due compensation.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said the copy of the cheque 
BoS provided was enough to show that BoS had made payment. It also showed which 
account it was paid into. So they concluded BoS had made the PPI compensation payment 
to Mr J in 2011 and there was nothing more it needed to do.
Mr J disagrees. Mr J has sent in a number of submissions, which I have read carefully. But 
in summary he repeated his argument that he hasnt received payment. Hes also said that 
BoS letter from 2011 says payment would be made by direct credit  not by cheque. And 
hes also raised concerns about the wording on the reverse of the copy cheque, which he 
says shows the cheque was unpaid.
Because the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr J, Ive decided not to uphold 
his complaint. My reasons are set out below.
BoS has provided a copy of the letter from 2011 it says it sent Mr J upholding his complaint 
and awarding him compensation. This letter was correctly addressed and because Mr J 
hasnt said or implied that he had problems with his post around this time, I think its likely it 
was delivered correctly.
BoS has also provided a copy of the cheque for the full compensation amount it says it sent 
Mr J around the same time as the above letter. Looking at this, I can see the cheque is made 
out to Mr J using his full name. And on the reverse of the cheque the bank details  both the 
sort code and account number  into which the cheque was paid in and when is clearly 
printed. The date is two days after BoS says it sent Mr J the cheque, which would allow 
enough time for it to be received and banked.
In addition the bank details into which the cheque records it was paid into appear to 
correspond to an account Mr J held in his name. I say this because Mr J wrote to his bank 
asking them to provide copy bank statements for the period in question in an attempt to 
evidence the payment being made into his account. And while the bank replied saying that it 
no longer held the statements on its system, the account details Mr J quoted to his bank 
match those recorded on the copy of the reverse of the cheque. Mr Js bank didnt reply 
saying that it didnt recognise the account details  simply that it could no longer retrieve the 
information Mr J requested. So it appears the bank details recorded on the reverse of the 
cheque do belong to an account in Mr Js name.
I can see Mr J has said that BoS letter from 2011 says the PPI compensation would be paid 
directly into his bank account and not by cheque. But I dont think this is unusual or it means 
payment wasnt made to Mr J as BoS says. The wording of this section of the letter to Mr J is 
in my view a standard type of wording. And from my experience, it isnt unusual for some 
compensation payments to be made by cheque, particularly for loan PPI compensation 
payments.
Mr J has also pointed to some wording on the reverse of the copy cheque, which says: 
Unpaid to... and then quotes a sort code and series of other numbers. Mr J says this 
indicates the cheque was in fact unpaid. BoS says this isnt an unpaid stamp  its the details 
to show which account it should be paid to if it was returned unpaid.
Im not persuaded the cheque was returned unpaid. I say this because I find it unlikely a 
cheque issued by BoS representing PPI compensation would be returned unpaid. And 
secondly, if it was unpaid I would expect to see one or more of the standard banking reason 
codes to explain why it was unpaid marked somewhere on the cheque  for example  refer 
to drawer. But there isnt in this case.
I can see Mr J isnt satisfied because in part his bank is unable to provide him with bank 
statements from the time in question to prove that the cheque was cashed as BoS says. But 
its not surprising the statements are no longer available given the passage of time. 
And whilst I understand that Mr J would like proof BoS made payment to him,  in deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case, I need to be satisfied that it is 
more likely than not BoS made payment  I dont need to prove it was the case.
So taking everything into account, I think the available evidence supports BoS having paid 
Mr J his PPI compensation by cheque in 2011. I also think Mr J paid that cheque into a bank 
account in his name as per the details recorded on the reverse of the copy cheque. Ive not 
seen enough to persuade me otherwise. Because of this, BoS doesnt have to do anything 
more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman