DRN-3142887
The complaint
Mr L complains Santander UK Plc failed to treat him fairly when he disputed transactions he 
had made towards a contract with a third party.  
What happened
The background is well known to all parties to I will summarise only briefly:
Mr L used his Santander credit card to pay a company I will call MRL £1,000 on 
31 May 2017. The payment was made towards a contract he signed with another 
company, R, to secure his release from a holiday club membership with a third 
company (C), and claim compensation. Mr L paid a larger sum of £5,000 by 
cheque to R, some time later.
Mr L says R never carried out the work it said it would. He tried to get in touch 
with it in 2018 but it didnt reply, and it turned out the company had gone into 
liquidation. He contacted Santander on 4 July 2018 to dispute the amounts hed 
paid. 
Santander said it wasnt liable under section 75 because one of the key technical 
criteria for a claim to be valid hadnt been met. It said that because the credit card 
payment had been made to MRL, and not R, this broke one of the criteria: the 
debtor-creditor- supplier (DCS) link. Internally, it considered whether it could have 
disputed Mr Ls £1,000 card payment via a chargeback, but concluded that it 
couldnt do this, again because the payment had gone to MRL.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr L brought a complaint to this service about 
Santanders decision. The most recent investigator look into the complaint 
thought that Santander had been right to decline the section 75 claim, but wrong 
not to have pursued a chargeback. She recommended the bank refund Mr L the 
£1,000 he paid on his card. Santander accepted this, but Mr L disagreed as he 
thought he should receive a refund of everything hed paid.
No agreement could be reached, so the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person makes a payment for goods or services using a credit card, their credit card 
provider may be able to help them in limited circumstances if something goes wrong with 
what they have bought. The credit card provider may have a legal responsibility under 
section 75 of the CCA, or it may be able to assist in obtaining a refund via the dispute 
resolution procedures operated by the card network, typically referred to as chargeback.
The Section 75 claim
Section 75 of the CCA allows a consumer to claim against their credit card provider if they 
have paid a supplier of the goods or services, and that supplier has breached its contract 
with them, or misrepresented something to them. Certain technical criteria need to be met in 
order for section 75 to apply to a particular purchase. One of these criteria is a key point of 
dispute in Mr Ls case: the need for there to be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in 
place.
What having a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place generally means is that the 
person making a claim needs to have used their credit card to pay the same company they 
say has breached its contract with them, or misrepresented something to them. This is a 
basic explanation but it is sufficient for the purposes of this decision.
If the payment has been made to a third party then this will often cause the delicate chain of 
connections to be broken, and for there to be no valid claim against the credit card provider.
In Mr Ls case, his credit card payment has not been made to R, which it appears nobody 
disputes breached its contract with him. His payment instead went to MRL. On the face of it 
then, the necessary criteria for him to be able to make a claim against Santander under 
section 75 of the CCA, are not in place.
There are some exceptions however, to this general rule. If two companies are associates 
as defined in section 184 of the CCA, then for the purposes of a claim under section 75 of 
the CCA, a payment to one can be treated as being the same as a payment to the other. 
This is because section 187 of the CCA has the effect of making companies which are 
associates interchangeable for the purpose of the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement.
What exactly is meant by associates is very specifically defined in the CCA. Just being 
linked in some way, or having a commercial relationship, isnt enough by itself to make 
companies associates. As defined in the CCA, two companies will be associates of one 
another if they are controlled by the same people, or if people who control one company are 
associates of people who control the other company. People are associates of one another if 
they have certain familial relationships, or if they are in partnership.
Our investigator looked into the question of whether or not R and MRL were associates. She 
found that they were, but only until 1 December 2016, and they would have needed to have 
been associates at the time of the payment to MRL, for this exception to apply. I share our 
investigators analysis of the links between the companies. There was an individual, a Mr K 
who caused R and MRL to be associates up until 1 December 2016. However, it appears he 
then departed R, causing the association, in terms of section 184 of the CCA, to break.
Ive thought carefully about whether, notwithstanding the fact R and MRL were not 
associates at the relevant time, there was anything else about their relationship which 
means it could be argued the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement was intact in this case. Ive 
thought particularly about the case our investigator referred to: Bank of Scotland v. Alfred 
Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB), in which the court found the debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement was intact in a scenario where a firm of solicitors had taken credit card payments 
for one of its clients, a company importing cars. The judge observed in the course of his 
conclusions, that other scenarios would need to be resolved on a case by case basis and 
the liability of the creditor would depend on the precise contractual arrangements between 
the parties. The judge contemplated that there would be scenarios where the relationship 
between the parties would be too tenuous for a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement to 
exist. In the Alfred Truman case, the court had a great deal of information about exactly what 
the business relationship was between the solicitors and the car importer. Bearing in mind 
the fact the judge highlighted the importance of the precise contractual arrangements in cases like this, this service has attempted to obtain more information about the relationship, 
and any agreement, between R and MRL.
The information which we have been able to obtain has been inconclusive, despite attempts 
to contact the liquidators and individuals connected to MRL. Its clear enough that there was 
a relationship between the companies, as otherwise I would not have expected MRL to take 
payments for Rs customers. But I do not have enough information to establish what the 
precise contractual arrangements were between them, and so I dont think I can reach a 
conclusion that these arrangements were analogous to those in the Alfred Truman case. It 
follows that I am unable to conclude there is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in 
place which would allow Mr L to hold Satander liable for what has happened under section 
75. The bank was therefore not wrong to decline his claim.
Chargeback
I mentioned earlier in this decision that a chargeback was a way in which a card provider 
could assist in obtaining a refund for its customer via the dispute resolution process operated 
by the relevant card network (in Mr Ls case, this was Mastercard).
A chargeback is not something a consumer can demand their card provider attempt as of 
right, but when contacted by a consumer requesting assistance with a disputed card 
transaction I would expect the card provider to consider attempting a chargeback, and to do 
so if there was a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. I would also expect the card provider 
to administer the chargeback process in a competent way, without making errors.
A common scenario in which a chargeback may be attempted is when goods or services 
have been paid for, and they have not been received as agreed. Mr Ls dispute would fall 
into this category, as it appears R failed to release him from his membership with C within 
the time agreed in the contract, and then went into liquidation. It also appears his contract 
came with a guarantee of a full refund if he wasnt released from his membership within 12 
months.
Chargebacks are not always successful, as Ive indicated above. There are rules which must 
be followed for chargebacks, and these are set by the card networks. Chargebacks can be 
opposed by the recipient bank if they think the rules have not been observed. One aspect of 
the rules concerns the window of time, following a card transaction, in which a chargeback 
must be attempted.
The rules which applied at the time of Mr Ls transaction said that a chargeback needed to 
be attempted within 120 days of the last date he expected to receive the service from R, so 
long as this was no more than 540 days from the date of the credit card transaction. The last 
date Mr L could have expected to receive the service from R would have been either when 
the date in his contract came and went, and he remained a member of Cs holiday club 
(around 31 May 2018), or when R went into liquidation and this became public knowledge 
via Companies House filings (11 June 2018).
Mr L first contacted Santander on 4 July 2018, long before any chargeback deadline had 
expired. Santander at the time appeared to discount the possibility of a chargeback because 
the payment had been made to MRL and not R. In my view this was wrong, as under the 
relevant chargeback rules it is the company which receives the payment who is responsible 
for chargebacks and disputes, as the merchant of record.
It seems Santander made a mistake here, and ultimately the bank unfairly deprived Mr L of 
the opportunity to obtain a refund via a chargeback. I think there was a fair prospect that a 
chargeback would have succeeded in Mr Ls case, given it seems he was not provided with the service he paid for.
Bearing this in mind, I think it would be fair and reasonable if Santander treated Mr L as 
though it had successfully charged back his credit card transaction of £1,000.
It is worth noting here that a chargeback can only be performed on a card transaction, and 
(unlike section 75) it doesnt allow for refunds over and above the amount paid by card. The 
payment Mr L made by cheque therefore, is not something Santander could have reclaimed 
via a chargeback.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and direct Santander UK 
Plc to take the following actions:
Pay £1,000 to Mr L.
Pay 8% simple interest per year* on the above amount, calculated from the date Mr L 
first raised his dispute, to the date the refund is paid.
*If Santander considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from this 
interest then it must tell Mr L how much tax it has taken off, and give him a certificate 
showing how much tax it has taken off, if he asks for one, so he can reclaim this tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman