DRN-4034214
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy with the time it took for Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay her claim. 
What happened
Miss E has travel insurance with Astrenska. Whilst on holiday, she was robbed and her 
wallet containing her bank card and cash was stolen. She reported the robbery to the local 
police and Astrenska. Her claim was accepted on 5 December 2022, however, it wasnt paid 
until 20 January 2023. Miss E is unhappy with the delay as she was told itd be paid within 
five working days. Shed like compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
Astrenska acknowledged it didnt pay Miss Es claim in good time. But it refused to pay her 
compensation. Astrenska said it was dealing with another claim for Miss E and that itd 
mistakenly made an overpayment. It said any compensation that was due should be offset 
against that claim. 
Our investigator disagreed. She said Astrenska should pay Miss E £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in paying her benefit and that this shouldnt be offset 
against the alleged overpayment on the other claim. She said that claim should remain 
separate from this one and that the compensation she is awarded should be paid directly to 
Miss E.
Astrenska, unhappy with this, requested an ombudsman to review the complaint. And so, its 
for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the same opinion as our investigator. Astrenska must keep both 
claims separate and as such, Ill only be considering its actions on this particular issue. I 
should also say there is another complaint being considered separately where the alleged 
overpayment is subject to that case. 
It's not in dispute that Astrenska delayed making the payment to Miss E on this case. It said 
on 5 December 2022 that itd make the payment to settle this claim. Astrenska said itd make 
that payment within five working days. But this didnt happen. Instead, it took around 40 
days. Under the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) Astrenska must 
handle claims promptly and fairly. For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Astrenska 
didnt handle Miss Es claim promptly because there were unnecessary delays with making 
the settlement payment.
Further, I note Astrenska didnt give reasons to satisfactorily explain the delay, nor did it give 
Miss E any updates during that period. For those reasons, I consider the £100 compensation 
recommended by our investigator to be fair.  
I should also explain that it wouldnt be fair for Astrenska to offset this compensation against 
another claim. I say that because the issues here are separate to those in that particular 
case. The compensation awarded here is related solely to the delays in paying Miss Es 
settlement for this claim and the £100 compensation is awarded to her for the distress and 
inconvenience that caused.   
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Es complaint and Astrenska Insurance Limited must pay her £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman