DRN-4133287
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Pinnacle Insurance plc (Pinnacle) has declined his claim for the 
cost of treatment for his pet dog on the ground that the condition treated existed before the 
policy start date.
What happened
Mr L took out a policy with Pinnacle for his pet dog, who Ill refer to as L, on 1 October 
2022.
In November 2022 L was seen by her vet for ear problems. Her vet initially treated her for 
allergic otitis for which shed been treated before, but this treatment didnt work. Further 
testing in January 2023 showed that the problem with Ls ears was pseudomonas which is a 
bacterial infection. When treated for this, Ls ears recovered.
Mr Ls claim to Pinnacle was originally submitted as being for 'suspected allergies - bilateral 
otitis' which Ls vet then corrected. The claim should have been submitted for 'bilateral 
pseudomonas of ears'.
Pinnacle reviewed Ls medical history. It noted that in June and August 2022, before Mr L 
took out his policy with Pinnacle, L had also been seen by the vet for ear problems. She was 
treated at that time for bilateral allergic otitis. Pinnacle rejected Mr Ls claim for Ls treatment 
from November 2022 on the ground that the condition was connected with a condition that L 
had been treated for before policy inception. Mr Ls policy states:
We will not pay for:
1. Any condition or symptom, or anything related to it, that you were aware of or has 
been noted and/or investigated by a vet, before this policy started.
Ls vet has given her view as follows:
As you are aware from [L]'s history she has presented to the surgery previously for 
issues associated with her ears. On these occasions the associated otitis had been 
associated with allergic skin disease. When [L] was presented on 3rd Jan 2023 with an 
ear infection. This ear infection has been diagnosed as Pseudomonas infection and is 
unrelated to allergic skin disease. I am hoping that as the cause is unrelated to the 
previous causes, that you would reassess her most current claim, as the treatment plan is 
so very different to previous episodes.
In response to the view of Ls vet, Pinnacle obtained a detailed report from its own vet with a 
further addition to that report which, in summary, expressed the view that allergic otitis is the 
underlying cause for the infection seen in November 2022 and so the two conditions are 
linked.  It included the following:
There is no factual evidence that the cause of the pseudomonas is not related to 
previous ear pathology.
An ear infection or indeed pseudomonas may have also been present previously; 
however, cytology or culture was not performed!
Overall, this dog has an underlying cause for repeat episodes of itchy ears and ear 
infections since it was first seen for vaccination in September 2020, which is statistically 
likely to be allergic dermatitis. There is no evidence that the ear episodes seen in June 
and August 2022 were purely allergic, with the ears were treated with antibiotics.
Equally, a pseudomonas infection does not cause primary ear disease  there will be an 
underlying allergic component and subsequential disruption to the skin barrier, which then 
allows a secondary infection to occur.
In response to the report from Pinnacles vet, Mr L provided further information about the 
history of the treatment of the various issues with Ls ears. He maintains that theres no proof 
that L had an infection before January 2023 and all previous treatment had been to treat an 
allergy/inflammation and not in infection and to say that they were related was pure 
speculation.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Hed like Pinnacle to honour and continue to 
honour his claim for the ongoing vet bills.
Our investigators view was that Ls medical notes show that L was free of allergic otitis in 
November 2022 and that the condition for which she was treated at that time was a different 
condition. This had been confirmed by Ls vet and Pinnacle had acted unfairly in linking the 
two conditions.
Pinnacle doesnt agree with our investigators view, so Mr Ls complaint has been referred to 
me as an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
I accept that the condition for which Mr  L is claiming is bilateral pseudomonas of Ls ears, 
which is an infection. I also accept that L had previously shown signs of 
allergies/inflammation. Theres no evidence of any history of an infection before November 
2022. Pinnacles vet says there might possibly have been, but no tests were undertaken at 
the time that mightve identified this. Im not persuaded that because L mightve been found 
to have had an infection if shed been tested for one that the conditions can therefore be 
linked.
Pinnacles vets report also states that  an underlying allergy will allow a secondary infection 
(such as pseudomonas) to occur. I dont consider that theres sufficient evidence that Ls 
pseudomonas was connected to an underlying allergy when it couldve been connected to 
something else. Ls vet has said they are unrelated.
In my view, whilst I respect the professional opinion of Pinnacles vet, I place greater reliance 
upon the opinion of a vet who has personal experience of Ls presentation over time and of 
the treatment provided to her. She has clearly stated that Ls pseudomonas infection is 
unrelated to her previous allergic skin disease. Ive also taken into consideration the terms of Mr Ls policy and specifically the exclusion it 
relies upon to reject Mr Ls claim  that the policy excludes Any condition or symptom, or 
anything related to it, that you were aware of or has been noted and/or investigated by a vet, 
before this policy started.
On the evidence provided to me, Im not persuaded that the condition to which Mr Ls claim 
relates  a bilateral pseudomonas infection  which was first diagnosed in January 2023, 
was a condition or symptom that Mr L was aware of or which had been noted and/or 
investigated before the policy started. 
My conclusion is that Pinnacle hasnt acted fairly in rejecting Mr Ls claim so Im going to 
require that it pays it with interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. I require Pinnacle 
Insurance plc:
1. to settle Mr Ls claim subject to any other terms and condition of his policy. 
2. to pay interest on the sum so paid at the simple rate of 8% from the date Mr L made 
his claim until payment is made to him.
If Pinnacle Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman