DRN-3660634
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. hasnt settled a baggage claim he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had returned from holiday and had discovered, upon landing, that his suitcase had 
been damaged. He said there was no-one available at the airport to report the damage to. 
And that when hed called the airline, hed been told to make a claim on his travel insurance 
policy. So Mr M got in touch with Mapfre to make a claim.
Mapfre initially turned down the claim because it said that the policy excluded losses a 
policyholder could recover from elsewhere. It said that as the suitcase had been in the 
airlines care, the airline had had an obligation to ensure that the suitcase was returned to Mr 
M in a reasonable condition.
Mr M was unhappy with Mapfres decision and he complained. Mapfre reviewed its position 
and it concluded that the claim had been turned down prematurely. It asked Mr M for further 
evidence to allow it to consider the claim. Specifically, it asked for an image of the damaged 
suitcase; proof of purchase and written evidence from the airline to confirm that it wasnt 
paying Mr M any redress for his suitcase and the reasons why.
However, Mr M remained unhappy with Mapfres decision and so he asked us to look into 
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She felt it had been 
reasonable for Mapfre to request further information from Mr M about his loss in order to 
reassess his claim. And she noted that Mr M hadnt provided us with any of the evidence 
Mapfre had requested either. So she thought Mapfre had treated Mr M fairly.
Mr M disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think Mapfre has treated him fairly and 
Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ms policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Mapfre treated him 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ms 
contract with Mapfre. Mr M claimed for a damaged suitcase, so I think it was appropriate for 
Mapfre to consider Mr Ms claim under the personal baggage provisions set out in the 
Personal Property section of the policy. This says Mapfre will pay:
Up to the amount shown in the summary of cover on pages 8 and 9 for the value or repair of 
any of your own personal baggage (not hired, loaned or entrusted to you except mobility 
aids, hired, loaned or entrusted to you by the NHS or similar body), which is lost, stolen, 
damaged or destroyed (after making proper allowance for wear and tear and depreciation).
Mapfre has also set out a list of specific things it excludes from cover. Ive included the 
following relevant terms:
You are not covered 
If your personal baggage is lost, damaged or delayed in transit, if you do not:
a) notify the carrier (i.e. airline, shipping company, etc) immediately and obtain a written 
carriers report (or Property Irregularity Report in the case of an airline) or,
b) follow up in writing within 7 days to obtain a written carriers report (or Property Irregularity 
Report in the case of an airline), if you are unable to obtain one immediately.
For any property more specifically insured or recoverable under any other source.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mr M wasnt able to obtain a Property Irregularity Report 
from his airline. However, Mapfre has offered to look the claim again outside of a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms if Mr M is able to provide further evidence in support of his 
claim.
It's a general principle of insurance that its a policyholders responsibility to provide enough 
evidence to show, on balance, that they have a valid claim on their policy. Mapfre is entitled 
to be satisfied that Mr M owned the item that he claimed for and that it was damaged in the 
way hes said. Its also entitled to be satisfied that he hasnt been able to recover the costs of 
repairing the damage or replacing the suitcase from the airline. The policy also includes a 
general condition which says: If we require any medical certificates, information, evidence 
and receipts, these must be obtained by you at your expense. This term makes it clear that 
Mapfre may require evidence before it will accept a claim.
In this case, Mapfre has asked Mr M to provide additional evidence to allow it to further 
assess his claim. Its requested an image of the damaged suitcase; proof of purchase and 
confirmation from the airline that it hasnt paid any redress to Mr M for his loss. I think this is 
a fair request from Mapfre. I think its reasonably entitled to be satisfied that Mr M owned the 
suitcase he claimed for and that the case was damaged as Mr M has said. It needs to know 
the purchase price of the suitcase and when it was purchased in order to calculate any 
potential settlement if it accepts the claim. And I find its fair for Mapfre to want to be satisfied 
that Mr M hasnt recovered his loss from the airline before it agrees to pay out. 
Presently, Mapfre doesnt appear to have the information its asked for and neither has Mr M 
provided us with the information Ive set out above. So I dont think its unreasonable for 
Mapfre to decline to pay Mr Ms claim until its had a chance to assess the further evidence 
it's asked for and consider what, if any, settlement should be paid. It remains open to Mr M 
to provide this evidence to Mapfre for its consideration should he wish to do so. If he is 
unhappy with the outcome of any further assessment of his claim following the provision of 
the evidence Mapfres requested, he may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that 
issue alone.
Overall, I currently find that Mapfre has treated Mr M fairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman