DRN-3445608
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the way Clydesdale Bank plc trading as Virgin Money handled a 
credit card application and balance transfer.
What happened
Mrs K applied for a Virgin Money credit card and requested a credit limit of £7,000. Virgin 
Money approved the application but only approved a credit limit of £1,000. Mrs Ks 
application requested a balance transfer and Virgin Money sent £950 to her existing credit 
card provider, 95% of the available credit limit. 
On 16 February 2021 Mrs K spoke with Virgin Money and explained she had wanted to 
make a balance transfer based on a credit limit of £7,000, not £1,000 and asked for the 
transfer to be recalled. Mrs K was referred back to her original credit card provider but it said 
the balance transfer couldnt be sent back. Mrs K spoke with Virgin Money again on 17 
February 2021 and asked it to carry out a balance transfer recall. Virgin Money says it didnt 
offer any guarantees that the balance transfer could be recalled. 
Virgin Money sent Mrs K regular monthly statements and requested payments. No payments 
were made and the account fell into arrears. Charges were applied and the account 
ultimately closed and was sold to a third party. 
Mrs K complained but Virgin Money didnt agree it had made mistakes or promised to recall 
the balance transfer. An investigator at this service considered Mrs Ks complaint but thought 
Virgin Money had dealt with it fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs K asked to 
appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the credit card application process Mrs K followed. As part of the application, 
Mrs K wouldve had to select she wanted to complete a balance transfer of up to 95% of the 
approved credit limit. Another section asks for the process to be completed automatically 
and Mrs Ks application was made on that basis. 
When the application was approved, the credit limit was set at £1,000. I havent seen any 
evidence that shows Virgin Money ever offered Mrs K a higher credit limit. As Mrs K 
accepted the credit card agreement, the balance transfer was automatically processed, in 
line with her instructions in the application. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K but Im satisfied her 
application was processed correctly and the balance transfer completed in line with her 
application. 
Mrs K asked Virgin Money to recall the balance transfer funds. Ive listened to Mrs Ks calls 
with Virgin Money and it said there were only limited circumstances under which it could 
recall the balance transfer. Virgin Money says it couldnt recall the balance transfer as the 
rules dont allow it to do so on the basis a consumer has changed their mind. As Ive said 
above, Im satisfied Virgin Money was acting in line with Mrs Ks instructions when it 
processed the balance transfer. I think its reasonable to say the request to recall it came 
about as Mrs K changed her mind about the application. As this isnt a reason Virgin Money 
could use to recall the balance transfer, Im unable to agree it acted unfairly. 
I understand Mrs K requested to cancel the agreement during the cooling off period. But the 
funds released as part of the balance transfer process needed to be repaid in order to cancel 
during that time.  The credit cards terms say Mrs K had to repay any balance and interest 
within 30 days of advising she wanted to withdraw. As that didnt occur, the credit card 
remained open. I havent found anything that shows Virgin Money acted unfairly by leaving 
the account open. 
Virgin Money sent Mrs K regular statements and information as the account fell into arrears. 
The credit card has since been closed and sold to a third party. But as the balance transfer 
sum wasnt cleared and no payments were made to Virgin Money, Im satisfied it had 
grounds to close the account. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K but I havent been persuaded 
that Virgin Money acted unfairly. 
As Im satisfied Virgin Money dealt with Mrs Ks complaint fairly Im not telling it to take 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman