DRN-3378451
The complaint
Mr M's complaint is about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a
claim under the legal expenses insurance section of his home insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month, the mains parts of which are 
copied below: 
Mr M made a claim in February 2020, as he wanted cover to take legal proceedings in
relation to an employment dispute. DAS says he did not respond to further communications
and so the claim was closed until Mr M contacted it again in May 2020. In June 2020 DAS
refused the claim on the basis it did not think Mr M was an employee and it didnt think the
legal claim he wanted to make was covered under employment legislation.
Mr M says he had no option to proceed with the case himself, so he obtained advice from his
own solicitor. I understand he incurred costs with one solicitor (Firm A) but was unhappy
with them. He then appointed (Firm B) who wrote to DAS on 16 June 2020 to say his claim
should be covered as he was eligible under the Equality Act 2010. Around eight days later,
DAS replied to Firm B maintaining its position. I understand this was returned with a failed to
deliver message but DAS did not try and re-send its response.
I understand Firm B couldnt take the case on, so Mr M then instructed Firm C who acted for
a while but the fee earner handling the case left the firm, so and he instructed another firm
(Firm D) to act on his behalf. They prepared proceedings for him and issued proceedings in
the tribunal on 2 September 2020.
On 29 September 2020, Firm D wrote to DAS to ask again on his behalf for cover under the
policy. They confirmed his eligibility in line with the previous advice from Firm B and raised
concern that DAS had not responded to Firm B in June 2020.
DAS asked its panel solicitors to review the matter and they confirmed the claim shouldnt
have been declined. On 24 November 2020, DAS confirmed that it would accept the claim,
subject to ongoing consideration of prospects of success. DAS said it would appoint one of
its panel solicitors to proceed with the case, as the policy only provides cover for a panel
solicitors until proceedings are necessary.
Mr M was not happy with this. His solicitors confirmed that proceedings had been issued on
2 September 2020, so he had the freedom to choose his own solicitors from that date in any
event. Mr M asked that his own solicitors be appointed to act and that DAS should pay the
costs he had already incurred with them (and the previous firms) amounting to more than
£18,000.
After Mr M complained, DAS agreed to Mr Ms solicitors acting for him with effect from 2
September 2020 but said they would need to agree to act in accordance with the standard
terms of appointment, which included that they would be paid £100 per hour plus VAT. DAS
also agreed it had taken too long to accept the claim and offered £150, later increased to
£225, compensation for this.
Mr M remained unhappy as his solicitors rate is £275 per hour and he says cover should
have been backdated to February 2020 when he first made the claim.
One of our investigators looked into the matter, He thought the delays by DAS meant Mr M
had no choice but to instruct his own solicitors to deal with his case, so while the policy
would normally only provide for a panel solicitor to act pre-proceedings, he recommended
that DAS should back date cover to 24 June 2020 (when Mr M had established he had a
valid claim under the policy) because of the delays. The Investigator said the costs covered
should all be at the £100 per hour rate, as the policy clearly states this is the amount that will
be provided. The Investigator also said that the costs would be assessed by costs draftsmen
at the end of the proceedings and did not consider DAS need to make any interim payment.
DAS accepted the investigators assessment and agreed to backdate cover to 2 September
2020, as previously agreed, and to also reimburse Mr Ms own solicitors costs from 24 June
2020 at the standard rate of £100ph.
Mr M does not accept the Investigators assessment. Mr M has made a number of
submissions in his initial complaint and in response to the Investigator directly and also via
his solicitors. I have summarised his points below:
There were considerable delays caused by DASs incorrect refusal of the claim from
February 2020 onwards and Mr M had no choice but to instruct his own solicitors and
issue proceedings, otherwise he would have missed the tribunal limitation date and
been barred from pursuing his legal case. Mr M says cover should be backdated to
February 2020, when he first made the claim.
Mr M acted as a prudent uninsured party and was badly let down by DAS and
incurred significant legal costs as a result.
Mr Ms legal case is complex and detailed. He had already instructed his own
solicitors (due to DASs wrongful refusal of his claim) and DAS was wrong and in
breach of the relevant regulations to ask him to change to one of its panel solicitors
and to say it would not consider the appointment of his own solicitors under the
policy.
Part of Mr Ms tribunal claim relates to a disability of which DAS is aware. Its actions
in handling the claim have significantly increased the stress and anxiety of the matter
on top of the already stressful tribunal proceedings.
The £100 per hour offered is not reasonable and cannot be justified. It restricts
Mr Ms freedom to choose his own solicitor, such that it is rendered meaningless.
They refer to a relevant Court of Appeal decision in Brown-Quinn & Anor.
The legal costs Mr M has incurred are reasonable and, in any event, the £100 non 
panel rate cannot be applied retrospectively, as he had already incurred these costs
due to DASs wrongful refusal of the claim.
Mr M has also incurred around £1,000 in legal fees in dealing with the insurance
cover
At the time Mr M bought the policy the only financial limit referred to was the overall
limit of indemnity of £100,000 and the policy documents did not mention any hourly
rate.
In January 2021, DAS wrote to say it could not agree the appointment of Mr Ms
solicitor, again in contravention of the relevant regulations which state it cannot
refuse the policyholders chosen solicitor, simply because they have not agreed
certain terms.
Mr Ms solicitor charges £275. She is a grade 1 fee earner, which is appropriate and
reasonable given the nature of the case.This was an extremely stressful time and DASs failure to deal with the claim
reasonably greatly exacerbated that stress.
DAS has been aware of Mr Ms disability from the outset and failed to take account of
this in the way it dealt with him and the claim.
Mr M said he would accept the £100ph backdated further, which would in effect mean a
contribution of £6,700 towards the £18,000 costs he had already incurred. He also said he
needs to have a figure that DAS will pay towards the fees he has already incurred, otherwise
he doesnt know whether he can accept any offer/decision.
As the Investigator has been unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claims handling from February 2020 to April 2021
Mr M made his claim on 28 February 2020. DAS says it wrote back the same day asking for
further information. DAS says it chased a response in March 2020, there was a query about
Mr Ms employment status and therefore his legal rights in relation to termination of an
agreement for services. It is not unreasonable of DAS to make enquiries about this. I can
see Mr M did not respond to some enquiries until May 2020, including providing a copy of his
contract for services, so I do not think DAS was responsible for all the time taken to consider
the matter and provide its refusal of the claim on 2 June 2020.
However, this refusal of the claim was countered by Mr Ms solicitors (Firm B) by letter of 16
June 2020. Firm B said he was a contract worker but even though not employees, such
workers have rights under the Equality Act 2010 to be protected against discrimination from
service users. Firm B also confirmed that this point had already been conceded by the
respondent and a draft list of issues between the parties had already been produced.
It seems to me that at this point, DAS should, at the very least, have asked one of its panel
solicitors to consider the claim, or have confirmed cover under the policy as Mr M had
established he had a valid claim. However, DAS did not do so. Instead it wrote and
maintained its refusal. In addition, it was aware its response was not delivered to Firm B but
did not resend it or communicate with Mr M or his solicitors by other means.
As a result, Mr M had no choice but to continue with his claim, incurring costs with his
solicitors in doing so.
Firm D wrote to DAS at the end of September 2020 to ask on his behalf again about cover
but DAS did not reply and Mr M had to chase up on 16 October and 21 October 2020. DAS
responded on 27 October 2020 that it had referred the matter to one of its panel solicitors to
assess. On 24 November 2020, DAS confirmed it would accept the claim and pass it to a
panel solicitor to act.
So it took another two months (from Firm D contacting DAS in September 2020) and five
months in total, for DAS to respond and confirm the claim was covered; and it then said it
would have to be dealt with by a panel solicitor. I dont think this was appropriate. Firm D
correctly pointed out that as proceedings had already been issued, Mr M had the right to
choose his own solicitors to act at that stage. DAS should have known that proceedings had
already been started, as it had a copy of the draft issues.
I understand that Mr M wrote in January 2021 to ask that his solicitors be appointed underthe policy and ask again for reimbursement of previous costs. He had to chase again ten
days later. I understand DAS refused their appointment as they would not agree terms. I
cannot see that there was any further communication until Mr Ms solicitors wrote to DAS
again on 8 March 2021 asking to be appointed under the policy.
DAS finally agreed to consider Mr Ms own solicitors appointment in response to this letter.
Although it seems to have taken another 10 days for it to do so and then DAS took until 7
April 2021 to ask the solicitors for a claims management report (giving a summary of the
case and prospects etc). Firm D sent a completed claims management form with details of
the case on 14 April 2021. The solicitors confirmed witness statements had to be exchanged
by 30 April 2021 and the pleadings and bundle already prepared, so significant work had
already been carried out. The final hearing had been listed for January 2022.
DAS wrote on 26 April 2021 to confirm it would appoint Mr Ms solicitors under the policy but
subject to the standard terms of appointment, including that it would only pay £100ph.
So it took DAS around four months after DAS accepted it had wrongly refused cover  and
around 10 months after Mr M had established he had a valid claim under the policy - before
it took any action to progress the matter meaningfully, meanwhile Mr M was having to pay
his solicitors to deal with this claim
Mr Ms solicitors wrote the next day (27 April 2021) objecting to the hourly rate offered and
providing reasons why its rates were justified and reasonable. There was another delay of
several weeks before DAS responded. As I understand it terms have still not been agreed.
The delays in progressing the claim, which Ive detailed above, were in my opinion
unnecessary and avoidable. I will address how this should be put right below.
Should cover be backdated?
In a case such as this, where a business has done something wrong, our overriding aim is to
restore the consumer, as closely as we can, to the position they should have been in, but for
the business error.
As I have concluded that DAS should have accepted the claim on receipt of the letter from
Firm B, I therefore consider that cover should be backdated to 16 June 2020. The
Investigator said to backdate to 24 June 2020 but I consider it is reasonable to backdate
cover to 16 June 2020 (the date it received the favourable solicitors opinion). In addition,
DAS should also reimburse the costs of Mr Ms solicitor in obtaining the legal advice that
established his claim under the policy, in line with usual practice. So it should reimburse
Mr M the costs incurred with Firm B for that (i.e. advising on the case and writing to DAS in
support of his claim in June 2020) together with interest at our usual rate.
I am not persuaded cover should be backdated to February 2020, as Mr M has requested,
as I am not persuaded that DAS is solely responsible for the time taken from then until June
2020 to progress the matter.
The Investigator said that the backdated costs should be paid at the policy rate. However, I
disagree. I will address this point and the appropriate rate to be paid.
Hourly rate to be paid on costs from June 2020 to April 2022
Mr Ms policy says:
We will pay an appointed representative, on your behalf, costs and expenses for the insured
incidents in this section the most we will pay in costs and expenses is no more than theamount we would have paid to a preferred law firm. The amount we will pay a law firm
(where acting as an appointed representative) is currently £100per hour. This amount may
vary from time to time.
DAS therefore says that all costs to be paid under the policy, including the backdated costs,
are to be paid at the rate of £100ph. However, I do not think this puts right what has gone
wrong in this case.
There is no evidence to suggest Mr M would not have accepted one of DASs panel
solicitors dealing with the case, if it had been accepted in February 2020 or June 2020. He
was simply not given that opportunity because of DASs wrongful refusal of the claim and
then by the delay in accepting the claim. Mr M therefore had no choice but to obtain his own
legal advice and progress his claim, otherwise he might have been time-barred.
The solicitors that Mr M instructed all appear to be reasonable appointments and he would
not have been in any position to negotiate their fees down to the policy rate.
So while the policy might say that cover is only provided for fees of £100ph, Mr M had no
choice but to pay the fees his solicitor charged him, certainly from June 2020 until 27 April
2021. He has therefore suffered a financial loss as a direct result of the wrongful refusal of
his claim and is in my opinion therefore entitled to reimbursement for that.
I also note that witness statements were due to be exchanged by 30 April 2021. Given this, I
dont think it would have been reasonable to expect Mr M to change to a panel solicitor only
a few days before this was done. I therefore consider that DAS has lost its right to insist on
panel rates for that period  i.e. 16 June 2020 up to and including, 30 April 2021 -
as it was only due to its errors that Mr M was in that position and he acted reasonably in
instructing solicitors to protect his legal position. 
DAS does have the right to have those costs assessed for general reasonableness but not in 
relation to the hourly rate charged.
I cant say that all the £18,000 referred to by Mr M as having already incurred will be payable
by DAS, as some of the invoices date from 2019, before he made his claim. DAS is not
responsible for costs incurred before it was aware of the matter.
I note Mr M is anxious to know exactly how much DAS will pay towards the costs he has
already incurred. However, I am unable calculate that. As the Investigator explained, even if
we had the invoices and time sheets from the solicitors setting that out in sufficient detail
(which we dont) this would usually be done by cost draftsmen at the conclusion of the case.
Having said that however, I note Mr M has had to pay his solicitors fees already, whereas if
he had the option to use a panel solicitor he would not have had to do so. Normally when a
complainant has incurred a financial loss to be reimbursed by an insurer we would award
interest. I think that would be fair here. So DAS should pay interest at our usual rate from the
date Mr M paid any such fees that fall to be reimbursed, to the date of reimbursement.
(To be clear interest is only payable on the costs incurred and due to be paid as a result of
this provisional decision between June 2020 and 30 April 2021. DAS might choose to make
an interim payment in relation to those, or continue to accrue interest.)
Hourly rate from April 2022
DAS sent terms of appointment on 26 April 2022 setting out that it would pay £100ph plus
VAT. So at that point Mr M was aware DAS would not alter this to his solicitors charging
rate. Mr M then had the option of using a panel solicitor. I can see why he would have beenreluctant to change solicitors at that stage, as his solicitors had progressed the matter and
carried out a lot of work on his behalf already. Mr M had clearly established a good
relationship with them and it would have been disruptive to change. I also agree with Firm D
that DAS is not entitled to refuse their appointment under the policy, simply because they
cannot agree an hourly rate.
However, I also have to consider the indemnity provided by the policy and it does state cover
is limited to £100ph. Firm D has said this is inherently unfair and unreasonable as it
essentially renders his freedom to choose his own solicitor meaningless. However, I am not
persuaded that it fetters Mr Ms choice of solicitors to the extent that his choice is
meaningless. And I have not seen any convincing evidence that the panel solicitors available
to Mr M would not have been suitably qualified or experienced to deal with the matter.
I therefore consider that DAS is entitled to impose the policy terms from that point onwards
and is therefore only liable for Mr Ms solicitors costs up to the limit of £100ph from 1 May
2021 onwards.
Having considered everything, I consider it fair and reasonable that his solicitors costs
should be covered from 1 May 2021 at £100ph plus VAT (subject to any remaining terms,
including prospects of success). I am aware the hearing was listed for January 2022, so the
matter might have concluded. I ask the parties to let me know if this is the case, in response
to this provisional decision.
Interim payments
Because a legal expenses insurer's liability is restricted to indemnifying unrecovered costs,
we have long taken the approach that it is within its rights to wait until the conclusion of a
case before paying a claim. The insurer may agree, at its discretion, to make interim
payments, but we would not usually require it to do so.
So for the costs incurred from 1 May 2021 onwards, I do not consider that I can reasonably
ask DAS to make interim payments, as Mr M did have the option at that stage to use a panel
solicitor.
Costs of legal representation in the claim and the complaint
Mr M has also said he has incurred fees with his solicitor in relation to correspondence with
DAS. We dont normally award the costs of professional representation in dealing with an
insurance claim or complaint, as consumers have the right to come to us free of charge and
unrepresented if they have a dispute about insurance policy. And other than the solicitors
opinion, which I have provisionally decided DAS should reimburse Mr M for, I am not
persuaded that it would be reasonable to require DAS to reimburse the costs of the solicitors
for other correspondence with DAS.
Compensation
There were considerable delays on DASs part in the handling of this claim and Mr M and his
solicitors had to chase responses repeatedly. I do not consider the sum of £250 to be
sufficient to reflect the trouble this caused. Legal proceedings are extremely stressful and
Mr M needed urgent legal help and DAS failed to provide him with the assurances he was
entitled to. I can understand why this caused considerable additional distress and
inconvenience at the time Mr M needed support. I intend to also award £650 compensation
for this.
My provisional decisionI intend to uphold this complaint and require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Limited to do
the following:
reimburse the costs incurred by Mr M with Firm B before 16 June 2020 in advising
and providing evidence to DAS to establish his claim, together with interest at 8%
simple per annum on the costs to be paid from the date Mr M paid them to the date
of reimbursement;
reimburse the costs incurred by Mr M in relation to this claim, from 16 June 2020 to
30 April 2021, together with interest at 8% simple per annum on the costs to be paid
from the date Mr M paid them to the date of reimbursement (DAS has the right to
have these costs assessed for general reasonableness but not in relation to the
hourly rate charged);
provide indemnity for Mr Ms solicitor's costs (subject to the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy) at the hourly rate of £100 per hour plus VAT, with effect from
1 May 2021 onwards; and
pay Mr M the sum of £650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
to him by its handling of his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. Both Mr M and DAS have confirmed they accept my 
provisional decision and neither party has added anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again and as neither party has provided any further 
arguments or information, I see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Limited to do
the following:
reimburse the costs incurred by Mr M with Firm B before 16 June 2020 in advising
and providing evidence to DAS to establish his claim, together with interest at 8%
simple per annum on the costs to be paid from the date Mr M paid them to the date
of reimbursement;
reimburse the costs incurred by Mr M in relation to this claim, from 16 June 2020 to
30 April 2021, together with interest at 8% simple per annum on the costs to be paid,
from the date Mr M paid them to the date of reimbursement (DAS has the right to
have these costs assessed for general reasonableness but not in relation to the
hourly rate charged);
provide indemnity for Mr Ms solicitor's costs (subject to the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy) at the hourly rate of £100 per hour plus VAT, with effect from
1 May 2021 onwards; and
pay Mr M the sum of £650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
to him by its handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman