DRN-3142903
The complaint
Miss M and Mr R are unhappy with the service they received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when 
making a mortgage application.  
What happened
Miss M and Mr R had an existing mortgage with HSBC. Their interest rate deal was coming 
to an end, so they wanted to apply for a new fixed interest rate deal. They also wanted to 
borrow additional money. One of the things the additional borrowing was to be used for was 
to pay off a credit card, also held with HSBC.
Miss M and Mr R had an appointment with an HSBC mortgage adviser on 29 October 2020. 
A valuation of their property was subsequently booked, and the application put on hold, 
awaiting the result of this.
Another appointment was booked for 10 November 2020. But HSBC cancelled this at short 
notice as the valuation, which had been carried out on 6 November 2020, hadnt yet been 
loaded to its systems. The valuation was though uploaded, later the same day.
An appointment was rebooked and took place on 28 November 2020. A mortgage offer was 
produced as part of that appointment. This offer was subsequently accepted by Miss M and 
Mr R and the newly agreed mortgage took effect from 21 December 2020.
Miss M and Mr R complained to HSBC about the service theyd been provided. They said 
theyd made HSBC aware before the first meeting that a new valuation of their property 
would be needed. They also felt the adviser they met with during the first appointment was 
unaware of HSBCs product range and procedures. Miss M and Mr R said they were also 
unhappy that the second scheduled appointment had been cancelled at short notice as 
arranging time off work to attend appointments was not straightforward. And they added 
theyd chased the mortgage adviser they first met with several times, but theyd received no 
response. Because of the delays, Miss M and Mr R said theyd paid more interest on their 
existing mortgage - as it had switched to HSBCs standard variable rate (SVR). And theyd 
had to pay interest on their credit card that wouldve been avoided if the new lending had 
been provided sooner. They also said that these delays had caused them significant distress 
and inconvenience, through having to arrange childcare at short notice to deal with matters 
on several occasions.
HSBC acknowledged that it hadnt provided the best customer service and offered Miss M 
and Mr R £250 to address this. It said this was to cover the additional interest charged at the 
SVR, additional costs and the distress caused.
Miss M and Mr R questioned how HSBC had arrived at this figure as they didnt think it was 
fair. HSBC disagreed. So, the matter was referred to our service. HSBC has since explained 
that the offer of £250 was made up of £150.75 of additional interest charged to the 
mortgage, with the remainder for the inconvenience caused.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She felt HSBC should increase its offer. 
She felt the refund of additional interest charged on the mortgage was fair, but felt HSBC 
should pay 8% interest on this from the point it was charged, to the date the complaint was 
settled. She also felt it should increase the offer for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to £150. She did not though think HSBC needed to cover interest charged on the credit card 
as she was of the opinion this would always have been incurred.
HSBC largely accepted the Investigators findings but said it felt it should only pay 8% 
interest until the point it made its offer in January 2021. Having considered the matter again, 
our Investigator agreed this alternative proposal was fair.
Miss M and Mr R did not accept the Investigators opinion. They didnt agree that the offer 
was fair or that the interest charged on the credit card would always have been incurred.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has acknowledged that it has made errors here. It has said, in its file submissions, 
that the application could have been progressed during the first appointment Miss M and Mr 
R had with it on 29 October 2020. The valuation would still have been required, and this 
wouldnt have taken place until the mortgage appointment had been completed. But the 
application couldve been progressed, rather than being put on hold, and the mortgage offer 
couldve then been issued once the valuation had taken place and was uploaded to HSBCs 
systems, on 10 November 2020. But this didnt happen until 28 November 2020  due to 
HSBCs error.
As HSBC has acknowledged it has made an error here, Ive thought about what it should do 
to put things right.
Additional interest charged on the mortgage
HSBC has calculated the additional interest it says was charged to Miss M and Mr Rs 
mortgage from 29 October 2020, when the first appointment took place, to the date the funds 
were advanced, on 21 December 2020. It has said this came to £150.75. And HSBC has 
offered to refund this.
I think this offer is fair in respect of the additional interest incurred through the mortgage 
switching to HSBCs SVR. I say this because HSBCs errors only caused a delay from 10 
November 2020 to 28 November 2020. The time between the offer eventually being made 
and the funds being advanced seems to have been due to administration that would always 
have been required. 
Our Investigator initially said HSBC should pay 8% on this amount from the point it was 
charged until the complaint was settled. HSBC said it felt it should only pay 8% from the 
point the interest was charged to the point it offered to refund the interest in January 2021. 
Our Investigator subsequently agreed this was fair. And taking everything into account, I also 
think itd be fair for the 8% interest to only be paid until January 2021. This is because, as 
Ive already said, I think the interest refund HSBC has offered actually covers a greater 
period that the delay its errors caused. And as the offer it made in respect of this in January 
2021 is in my view fair, I dont think it would be fair in the circumstances for it to pay interest 
beyond that point, solely because an agreement could not be reached to settle the 
complaint.Credit card interest
Miss M and Mr R have said the delay by HSBC also caused them to incur credit card 
interest. Theyve explained some of additional money they were borrowing was to pay off 
this card. Which wouldve happened sooner if it werent for the delays by HSBC.
Miss M and Mr R have provided credit card statements. These show that there wasnt an 
outstanding balance on the card before 20 October 2020. There were then three 
transactions at the end of October that brought the outstanding balance to just over £1,300. 
The statements confirmed that a payment was due by 30 November 2020 and estimated 
interest, in the event the balance wasnt paid off in full, was roughly £27.
The balance wasnt paid in full by 30 November, so interest of approximately £27 was 
applied. There was more spending on the card in November and December 2020. But the 
balance was cleared in full on 23 December 2020  after the mortgage went through  so no 
further interest was charged.
Ive thought about whether the £27 interest would always have been incurred, without the 
delays by HSBC. And I think it would. 
The transactions on the credit card in October 2020, which led to the interest, were made 
before the initial mortgage appointment had taken place. So, at that point, there was no 
guarantee that HSBC wouldve agreed to the additional borrowing  so the interest could 
always have been payable in any event.
In addition, for the interest to be avoided, the balance wouldve needed to be repaid in full by 
30 November 2020. Because of the errors by HSBC a mortgage offer was issued on 28 
November 2020, when it shouldve been issued on 10 November 2020  a delay of 18 days. 
But the mortgage didnt complete until 21 December 2020, as there were other processes 
associated with the application that still needed to be carried out. I havent seen anything 
that leads me to think HSBC caused any further delays after 28 November 2020. So even if 
the mortgage offer had been issued on 10 November 2020, these processes would still have 
needed to happen. I think it is reasonable to assume they wouldve taken approximately the 
same amount of time. So even without the delay by HSBC, it seems likely on balance that 
the mortgage would not have been in place until around 3 December 2020 (factoring in the 
delay of roughly 18 days HSBC caused). Which is after the credit card needed to be repaid 
in full to avoid interest.
Taking this into account, I dont think itd be fair to require HSBC to refund the interest 
applied to the credit card account as, on balance, I think this likely would always have been 
incurred. 
Distress and Inconvenience
Miss M and Mr R have said that the errors by HSBC put them under a lot of stress and 
caused them significant inconvenience. Theyve said it wasnt straightforward arranging time 
away from work and childcare for the mortgage appointments  one of which was cancelled 
at short notice. And theyve said they had to spend time bringing their complaint, which 
impacted on time with their family.
I do agree that the service provided by HSBC likely caused Miss M and Mr R unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. HSBC has acknowledged that the latter two appointments (one 
of which was cancelled) wouldnt have been needed had the first appointment been handled 
correctly. And it did cause some delays here.That being said, a mortgage application  even a re-mortgage  is often not straightforward 
and can take time to complete. This is evidenced somewhat by the mortgage not being 
advanced here until several weeks after the mortgage offer was issued, as there were 
several processes that needed to be carried out. And there is always some degree of stress 
involved, as well as time being expended that wouldnt be routine. 
Taking everything into account, while I know Miss M and Mr R do not necessarily agree, I 
think a payment of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused here is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint.
To put things right, I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to;
Pay Miss M and Mr R £150.75  representing the additional interest it calculated they 
incurred on their mortgage due to its errors.
Pay 8% interest on this sum from the point the interest was charged until January 
2021, when it first offered to settle the complaint.
Pay Miss M and Mr R £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its errors.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman