DRN-3049478
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by Northfield Wealth 
Limited, referred to as Northfield or the business. 
In summary, he says:
He was assured that the investment was low-risk but it turned out to be the opposite. 
A shortfall, a couple of months after the investment started, left him in shock.   
The adviser shouldve pointed out how risky the investment was and carried out 
proper due diligence.  
There was no discussion about risk, and he signed no paperwork agreeing to the 
risks involved. 
He wasnt told that anything above the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) limit  set at £85,000  was at risk of not being covered if the fund went 
bankrupt or failed to meet its obligations. 
Hes unhappy that he was advised to invest more than the FSCS limit into one 
investment and instead shouldve been advised to invest in several funds in order to 
have this protection.  
To put things right, Mr H wants compensation for his losses in the sum of £6,161 and a 
refund of the £1,249 adviser fees. 
What happened
In late 2020, Mr H met with an adviser to review his retirement planning. He also sought 
advice on his pension which doesnt form a part of this complaint.   
In December 2020, he was advised to invest £282,200  held across four cash ISAs  into 
the Vanguard Life Strategy 20% Equity Accumulation Fund (the fund), within a stocks and 
shares ISA wrapper. 
At the time Mr H was retired, had no financial dependents, and living mortgage free. He also 
had no planned expenditure. In addition to the four cash ISAs, Mr H also held:
£5,000 in a bond with a third-party business  due to mature April 2021.  
£48,900 in a stocks and shares ISA with a third-party provider. 
£20,460 in cash deposit. 
He was also waiting to receive between £82,000 and £85,000 from his late fathers 
estate. 
It was recorded that Mr H wanted to invest in something that would provide him with capital 
growth over the medium term.
In March 2021, Mr H raised concerns with the business about the performance of the fund 
and in due course cancelled the ongoing service agreement he had with the business which 
was confirmed in writing.  
The business rejected Mr Hs complaint. In summary, it said that the recommendation was 
suitable and that he was recommended a lower risk investment than he originally wanted. In 
other words, it advised him to invest in a multi asset investment fund that matched his low 
appetite for risk. It also said that the fund had excellent medium and long-term performance, 
but short-term volatility was to be expected, but that doesnt mean the recommendation was 
unsuitable.    
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
On 20 October 2020, Mr H completed the EValue Attitude to Risk questionnaire. On 
26 November 2020, the business prepared a report on his attitude to risk, based on 
the answers he provided it found his attitude to risk being moderate. However, as a 
result of further questions his attitude to risk was adjusted to cautious, which is 
defined as follows:
oYou are prepared to take only a small amount of investment risk and it is 
important to you that your capital is protected. This means that your portfolio 
will concentrate on investments that provide low returns in the long term but 
present lower risk to your capital. Only a small amount of riskier assets will 
usually be included in your portfolio in order to increase the chance of 
obtaining better long-term returns. 
Mr H could afford to invest and had capacity for loss. 
oHe had enough emergency funds, plus inheritance from his late fathers 
estate. He also didnt need access to his money for at least five years and 
any short-term losses wouldnt impact on his current standard of living.
Based on further questions asked, the adviser adjusted his risk rating for this 
investment from three to one out of five in order to preserve the cash ISA values. 
In the circumstances, she cant agree that Mr H was advised to take too much risk, or 
that it was higher than what he was prepared to take  there was no lower risk rating 
than one.
Mr H was also given an opportunity to consider the advice  and risk rating  before 
deciding to go ahead with the advice. The recommendation report made clear why he 
was advised to invest in this product. 
Just because Mr H made losses in the first two/three months doesnt mean that the 
recommendation was unsuitable. This is the nature of investments linked to market 
movements.  
The Key Investor Information showed that the fund was invested across a spread of 
assets comprised of roughly 80% in bonds and 20% in shares, with exposure to UK 
and no-UK markets.
Notwithstanding what Mr H says about the FSCS, the recommendation letter made 
clear that the FSCS offers a compensation scheme to customers who have lost 
money as a result of dealings with FCA authorised firms. It also made clear that the 
limit varies and that up to date information can be found on its website. So Mr H 
wasnt not told about it.     
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
Hed like the complaint investigated in more detail, particularly in relation to the FSCS 
point. 
He wasnt given adequate warning of the FSCS limit, therefore investing all his cash 
into just one fund, was a huge risk, if it had gone out of business. 
The business should therefore compensate him for lack of duty of care towards him.  The investigator having considered the complaint wasnt persuaded to change her mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
My findings 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im unable to safely 
say that the recommendation was unsuitable because of short-term fluctuations  two 
months into his investment  or because he was advised to invest a lump-sum into a low-risk 
fund that was over the FSCS limit. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him, and Northfield, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr Hs risk appetite was 
reasonably considered and that he was recommended a product that carried no more risk 
than he was willing to take. 
I note that Mr H was recommended to invest in a lower risk investment than what he initially 
wanted. According to the investment planning recommendations addendum dated 
November 2020 (the addendum), his adjusted score was one out of five, which defined Mr 
H as a cautious investor.  
Im aware that based on the answers Mr H initially provided to the EValue Attitude to Risk 
Questionnaire, Mr H showed as having a moderate attitude to risk  or three out of five  in 
between Cautious to Moderate and Moderate to Adventurous on a range of Cautious to 
Adventurous.   
In response to the question how Mr H would describe his attitude when making an important 
financial decision, he answered Average, in between the answers Fairly cautious and 
Fairly adventurous, with a range from Very cautious to Very adventurous.  
In response to the statement that Mr H was looking for high investment growth, and he was 
willing to accept the possibility of greater losses to achieve this, Mr H answered In between, 
which was in between the answers I tend to disagree with this statement and I tend to agree with this statement. I note the range was from I strongly disagree with this statement 
and I strongly agree with this statement.    
I note Mr H says that there was no discussion regarding risk, but based on the above, I dont 
agree, Im satisfied that there was a reasonable discussion regarding risk after which his 
attitude to risk was further adjusted. 
I also note Mr H says that he was assured that the investment was low risk, which would 
again suggest that there was a reasonable discussion about risk, and based on what the 
business says, Im satisfied that the recommendation to invest his lump-sum in a low risk 
product was suitable. 
Just because there was some fluctuation two months into the investment doesnt mean the 
recommendation was unsuitable. I understand that this sort of movement, early in the 
investment, isnt uncommon. 
I note that the addendum also made clear to Mr H that The value of the investment can, 
especially over the short term, go down as well as up, and you may get back less than you 
invest. So, Im satisfied that it was made clear to Mr H that he could get back less than what 
he put in and that there were no guarantees.  
Ive considered whether Mr H shouldve been advised to invest all his money, and if so, 
whether he shouldve been advised to invest it all in the single fund. 
Having done so, firstly Im satisfied that Mr H wanted to invest all his money  previously 
held across the four cash ISAs  so on balance, I dont think the business has behaved 
unreasonably by advising him to do so. I note Mr H wanted to invest in tax wrappers.  
Secondly, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think that the advice to invest 
a large lump-sum in a single low risk  multi asset fund  was unsuitable for Mr H. Im 
mindful that this investment represented roughly 58% of his retirement assets, but on 
balance, given the source of his money it seems Mr H was keen to consolidate his 
investments (from the four cash ISAs) as part of the wider financial advice he received. I also 
note that Mr H was recommended a third-party platform that would be easy to use and keep 
an eye on his investment. 
Im mindful that the money was invested across a spread of assets comprised of roughly 
80% in bonds and 20% in shares, with exposure to UK and no-UK markets. I also note that 
the asset allocation of the fund was partly made up of the following:
52.5% in Global fixed interest.
12.20% in UK Gilts.
7.70% UK index-linked.
7.4% in UK corporate fixed interest. 
5% in UK equities. 
1.19% in Japanese equities. 
Given Mr Hs circumstances  including his investment experience and assets  on balance I 
dont think the advice to invest in the fund was unsuitable. Im mindful that Mr H confirmed 
that he wouldnt need the investment to cover any expenses in an emergency, and that he 
had no financial commitments that could mean he needed access to this money sooner. I 
also note the fund was suitable for someone looking to invest a lump sum between three and 
five years.  Im mindful Mr H is unhappy that the FSCS limit is insufficient to cover the whole of his 
investment. But I dont think this means the recommendation is unsuitable. On the contrary, 
multiple recommendations/investments made for the sake of it, so that theyre covered by 
the FSCS, in my opinion isnt necessarily the correct approach. 
Despite what Mr H says, Im mindful that the addendum also contained the following 
information, therefore he was entitled to ask questions or make further enquiries if this was 
an issue he was concerned about:  
The FSCS was set up under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and exists to 
protect customers of FCA authorised firms and covers deposits, insurance and investments. 
The Scheme can pay compensation to customers who have lost money as a result of their 
dealings with FCA authorised firms that are unable to pay claims against them, usually 
because they are insolvent or have stopped trading. 
The limit of protection varies between different types of products and up to date information 
on the products covered and the limit of potential compensation can be found via the FSCS 
website: www.fscs.org.uk
The above notwithstanding, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business was about to go 
bust or that it couldnt honour its financial commitments. 
I appreciate Mr H will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do 
anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman