DRN-4404585
The complaint
Ms E has complained that Astrenska Insurance Limited have delayed and provided poor 
customer service when dealing with her claim for a lost phone.
 
What happened
Ms E contacted Astenska about losing her phone in January 2023.   
Ms E provided all the information that Astrenska have asked for, and given an explanation of 
why she cant provide some of the information, but Astrenska have repeatedly asked for the 
same data and they still havent resolved her claim. 
Ms E complained and Astrenska upheld her complaint. They acknowledged that they hadnt 
provided the customer service to be expected and paid her £50 compensation.  
Ms E was unhappy with this response and in July 2023 she brought her complaint to us 
raising concerns about the delay in settling the claim and the poor customer service.   
One of our investigators has looked into Ms Es complaint. He thought that Astrenskas offer 
was a little low and recommended that they should pay an additional £50 compensation and 
progress Ms Es claim because she has exhausted all possible ways of providing the 
information.  
Ms E was unhappy with this offer, and so the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Astrenska have upheld Ms Es complaint as they have accepted that the level of service they 
provided falls short of the level Ms E was entitled to expect, and they have paid her £50. So 
Im considering whether the sum offered for this is sufficient, and also whether they have 
sufficient information to process the claim.  
Ms E travelled abroad on 15 December 2022. She was unable to use her phone abroad as 
her sim card didnt work in the country she was visiting. Her phone bills support this as they  
evidence no phone use during the whole of the time she was abroad until after her return on 
10 January 2023. 
Unfortunately, on or around 9 January, Ms E lost her phone. She believes she dropped it in 
a taxi, but she cant be sure as the find my iPhone facility wouldnt work because the phone 
wasnt connected to a local network or to Wifi.  
Ms E reported the phone missing/lost on 18 January 2023 after she returned to the UK, and 
her provider blacklisted the phone straight away.  
Astrenska started the process to validate the claim, and firstly asked for proof of location on 
Find my iPhone and then asked for something that showed the phone had been used prior 
to the loss date. Ms E provided the screen shot from find my iPhone showing that it wasnt 
connected and she also explained that the sim card didnt work abroad. She provided her 
phone bills showing no usage abroad and sent in the letter from her provider evidencing that  
the phone had been blacklisted.  Astrenska had all that information by 13 February. 
However, Astrenska were unhappy that the last used date which appeared on the 
blacklisting letter is 18 January, and Ms Es phone bill shows that there is phone usage from 
12 January when she returned to the country. Ms E explained to Astrenska that her provider 
entered the last used date on the letter as the date she reported it to them, and that there 
was usage after she returned to the UK as she put her sim into an old phone to continue 
using her number. This is perfectly reasonable as she was still paying a contract.
    
Astrenska have asked several times for data from the IMEI number showing the date of last 
use, but Ms Es provider has confirmed that this isnt something that exists and so they cant 
provide it. The bill is the only document that will reflect usage. 
On 14 April Astrenska tried to have a conference call with the provider to get confirmation, 
but they couldnt do so as the provider was fully automated. 
Im satisfied from the evidence here that Ms E has provided enough information for 
Astrenska to validate and progress the claim, and I think that Astrenska should now proceed 
to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy without any 
further delay. 
In addition, I think that Astrensak have been slow to respond, have communicated poorly, 
and have caused unnecessary delays and inconvenience to Ms E. I agree with the 
investigator that the offer of £50 isnt sufficient, and that £100 more accurately reflects the 
inconvenience caused here.  
I appreciate that Ms E has asked that we consider directing Astrenska to pay the contract 
payments that she has made while this is in dispute, and she also thinks she shouldnt have 
to pay the policy excess. However, I cant agree. The contract payments would have been 
due whether the phone was lost or not, and Ms E has been able to use a replacement 
handset in the interim, which means she has the benefit of the contract. In addition, the 
policy excess would always have been due, and so I cant say its unfair for her to meet that 
expense. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Astrenska should:
Settle the claim without further delay in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy
Pay Ms E £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused, deducting any payment 
already made.   
   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to put 
things right as above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman