DRN-3611830
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (trading as NatWest) has refused to 
refund payments he made to what he believed was a legitimate investments trading 
company.  These payments were made by way of transfers from Mr Ms NatWest account.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, between May and November 2018, Mr M made several payments from his NatWest 
account to what he thought was his trading account with BinaryOnline/Finarix.  At the time, 
Mr M believed they were a legitimate trading company: I was skilfully convinced to invest 
in this system and at one point I had an account showing over GBP 250,000.00.  However, 
Mr M says, The problems really started and began to hit home to me when I wanted to 
make a withdrawal from my account, which on every occasion was refused or excuses 
made.  Mr M later discovered BinaryOnline/Finarix were operating a scam.
The payments concerned are as follows:
Date Payee Payment Method Amount
18 May 2018 Sidian Bank Limited International Urgent 
Transfer£5,038.50
2 July 2018 Advance Business 
accountBank transfer £10,000
3 August 2018 Smart Financial International 
Standard Transfer£10,027.38
6 August 2018 Smart Financial International 
Standard Transfer£2,510
20 August 2018 Smart Financial International Urgent 
Transfer£10,030
5 November 2018 iPayments PTE LT International 
Standard Transfer£2,00.47
Total amount 
debited:£39,606.35
Mr M asked NatWest to try to recover his money.  As this did not happen, he raised a 
complaint which he also referred to our service.
NatWest says:
Recall requests were sent to the beneficiaries, but these were unsuccessful.
Mr Ms transactions were not deemed out-of-character for his account, as he had 
willingly made them.
An internet search shows various negative reviews dated prior to Mr M making the 
payments.
A Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) warning was published after Mr M made the 
first payment, but he made further payments without receiving any returns.
Mr M should have carried out due diligence before making the payments  and if he 
had, they could have been prevented.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  In short, he said he 
did not think the payments Mr M made between May and November 2018 were unusual or 
suspicions when weighed against his normal account and payment activity.  He also held 
that NatWest did everything it could to try to recover Mr Ms money  particularly given the 
fact Mr M raised his dispute with NatWest in April 2020.
Mr M did not accept the investigators findings.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 8 July 2022, I issued my second provisional decision not upholding this complaint 
(in my first provisional decision I upheld this complaint).  For completeness, I repeat 
my second provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision in this matter has now changed.  I will explain why below.
It has been brought to my attention that Mr M had dealings with BinaryOnline/Finarix prior to 
his payment on 18 May 2018.  In particular, he made payments to them in July and August 
2017.  From what I have seen, it appears Mr M had issues with BinaryOnline/Finarix when 
he tried to withdraw his funds in 2017.  Despite this, he made a further payment to them on 
18 May 2018.
Having considered this carefully, I am not persuaded, on balance, that if NatWest had 
intervened on 18 May 2018 and spoke to Mr M  it would have been able to dissuade him 
from continuing to trade with BinaryOnline/Finarix.  I say this in particular because: 
Several months had passed between when Mr M had withdrawal problems in 2017, 
to when he made his payment in May 2018.  So, I take the view that he had sufficient 
time to reflect on his dealings with BinaryOnline/Finarix and act accordingly.
The payment method Mr M used in 2017 was different to the method he was asked 
to start using in 2018.  To my mind  taken together with the above point  this 
should have set alarm bells ringing for Mr M.
Mr M himself has acknowledged that he had doubts when he picked up things again 
with BinaryOnline/Finarix in 2018. 
Despite all the above, Mr M still decided to continue dealing with BinaryOnline/Finarix by 
making a significant payment to them in the sum of £5,038.50 on 18 May 2018.  Because of 
this, I cannot fairly say, on balance, that if NatWest had intervened on this payment  Mr M 
would have acted differently.  
It follows then that my provisional decision on this complaint has changed.
Responses to my provisional decisionNatWest did not respond to my second provisional findings.  Mr Ms position, broadly, is that 
my provisional findings are  purely conjecture and is based on an opinion of what may 
have happened and not considering any professional pressure I was under from the 
scammers to invest further.  Mr M says had NatWest intervened, he would not have 
continued making the payments concerned.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Ms response, I will not be departing from my second provisional 
findings.  
I must decide, on the balance of probabilities, what I think Mr M would have likely done had 
NatWest intervened during the time we are concerned with.  Having reflected on this, I have 
borne in mind the fact that Mr M had withdrawal issues in 2017, did not question a 
subsequent payment method change and that he himself expressed doubts when he picked 
up things again with BinaryOnline/Finarix after a significant amount of time had passed.  
Despite these things, Mr M continued to trade.  To my mind, the points I have mentioned 
should have reasonably outweighed the pressure Mr M says he was under  something 
which he has not delineated.
Taking all this together, I am not persuaded, on balance, Mr M would have done anything 
differently had NatWest intervened. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman