DRN-2964844
The complaint
Miss B and Ms B are unhappy because National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) did not 
reimburse the money Miss B transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Miss B and Ms B have a joint account with NatWest but as this complaint relates to Miss Bs 
actions, Ill only refer to her in my final decision. 
Miss B had some investment experience and had used a certain trading platform. She saw a 
social media advert posted by someone Ill call Mr A who said he could make good profits 
with stocks and shares. Mr A had good reviews. Miss B got in touch with Mr A and agreed to 
invest £100 from her NatWest account on 30 September 2020. Miss B says she checked 
that £100 was all shed have to pay, and Mr A agreed. Miss B didnt complete any checks 
before transferring £100 to the account details provided by Mr A. The account was in the 
name of an individual who wasnt Mr A. 
Mr A then asked Miss B to transfer further funds. She says she asked why as she thought 
she was making a one-off payment and Mr A said she needed to create a transaction history 
for when she received profits of £5,000 to £6,000, it was all part of the process and the funds 
would be returned by the end of the day. Miss B transferred funds from an account with a 
different bank and from her NatWest account. After a few days, and after transferring around 
£3,000 across the two accounts Miss B says she was worried and told Mr A she just wanted 
her money back and wasnt concerned about the profit. Mr A told her shed lose all her funds 
if she didnt make further payments. 
I have set out below relevant transactions from Miss Bs account and included payments and 
transfers to Miss Bs account at another bank in ordinary font, credits in bold and transfers 
from Miss Bs other account with another bank in italics. There were also transfers between 
Miss Bs NatWest accounts which I havent included. 
Date Amount Payment 
typeRecipient/Sender
30/09/20 £100 Transfer out Person 1
01/10/20 £750 Transfer out Transfer to account at another bank
01/10/20 £400 Transfer out Person 2
01/10/20 £250 Transfer out Person 2
02/10/20 £750 Transfer out Transfer to account at another bank
03/10/20 £750 Transfer out Transfer to account at another bank
03/10/20 £750 Transfer out Transfer to account at another bank
06/10/20 £578.07 Transfer out Transfer to account at another bank
08/10/20 £411 Transfer in Transfer in from account at another bank
09/10/20 £471.72 Transfer in Transfer in from account at another bank
09/10/20 £500 Transfer in Transfer in from account at another bank
09/10/20 £950 Transfer in Transfer in from account at another bank
09/10/20 £100 Transfer in Transfer in from account at another bank
09/10/20 £263 Transfer in Transfer in from account at another bank
09/10/20 £87.96 Transfer in Transfer in from account at another bank
09/10/20 £100 Transfer out Person 3
12/10/20 £400 Transfer out Person 3
12/10/20 £27.69 Transfer out Person 3 
12/10/20 £500 Transfer out Person 3
12/10/20 £430 Transfer in Transfer in from account at another bank
13/10/20 £818.19 Transfer out Person 3
13/10/20 £160 Transfer out Person 4
13/10/20 £50 Transfer in Person 5
14/10/20 £421.49 Transfer in Person 5
14/10/20 £500 Transfer in Person 5
14/10/20 £200.49 Transfer out Person 6
15/10/20 £2 Transfer out Person 3
16/10/20 £100 Transfer out Person 7
16/10/20 £1,206.02 Transfer in Person 7
There were also payments from Miss Bs other account at a different bank which form part of 
a separate complaint. 
Miss B has explained that as time went on, she became concerned about the payments she 
was making but continued because Mr A told her shed lose all her funds if she didnt. She 
has also provided this service with a lot of messages she exchanged with Mr A.
The other bank then blocked Miss Bs account on 16 October 2020. Miss B asked Mr A what 
to do and he told her to leave it and use her NatWest account. Shortly afterwards, NatWest 
also blocked Miss Bs account. Miss B says she had around £1,700 in her accounts at 
NatWest which Mr A told her to withdraw but Miss B refused. She says Mr A stopped 
contacting her but when she pretended that she would withdraw the funds to see if Mr A 
replied, he did.  
NatWest discussed the payments into the account with Miss B. She said Mr A told her to use 
a cover story involving family members so she told NatWest a cousin had borrowed money 
and was paying it back when he could. Miss B later told NatWest about the investment. Miss 
B was unhappy that NatWest closed her accounts. 
What NatWest says
NatWest says that In October 2020 it received a fraud report from another bank in respect of 
certain payments Miss B had received. As a result, NatWest blocked Miss Bs account while 
it investigated. It asked Miss B about funds shed received from persons 5 and 7 in the table 
above. Miss B said that shed received money from person 5 as she had lent money to her 
cousin and he was paying her back in instalments. NatWest questioned this, as information it 
had received said person 5 was female. Miss B said the funds from person 7 related to an 
investment. 
NatWest decided to close Miss Bs accounts and provided 14 days notice of this. Miss B 
complained and NatWest issued a final response letter in which it referred to its terms and 
conditions. It did not investigate a fraud claim as Miss B didnt raise fraud until this service 
started to consider her complaint. At this stage NatWest investigated the fraud claim and 
contacted the receiving banks. NatWest was able to recover around £150 for Miss B. But 
NatWest decided not to refund any further sums saying Miss B didnt complete enough 
checks before making the payments.Our investigation so far
The investigator who looked at Miss Bs complaint noted that the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (CRM Code) applies to the payments Miss B 
made to third parties. But she felt NatWest acted reasonably in not refunding the third-party 
payments because Miss B didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a 
legitimate investment or paying a legitimate investor. In summary, this was because the rate 
of return was unrealistic; the transfers, payments and receipts were suspicious; Miss B 
initially agreed to invest £100 and ended up paying significantly more; being asked to make 
transfers at night was unusual for a genuine investor; Miss B knew she didnt need to pay 
money to release funds (something Mr A told her); Mr A was unable to provide proof of 
where funds came from when asked and when Miss Bs other account was blocked she was 
told not to sort it out and instead use her NatWest account. 
The investigator considered whether it would have made a difference if Miss B was provided 
with a relevant investment warning and concluded it wouldnt. This was because Miss B had 
concerns herself but still made payments and because she followed Mr As instructions. 
The investigator went on to consider whether NatWest could have prevented the payments 
from being made. Initially the investigator asked NatWest to make a partial refund to Miss B. 
She said this because she considered some of the payments could have been prevented if 
NatWest had noted unusual activity on the account given the increase in the number of 
transfers and the number of new payees that were set up. But the investigator felt that Miss 
B should bear 50% of her loss as she had acted negligently in continuing to make payments. 
Finally, the investigator said NatWest acted reasonably in attempting to recover Miss Bs 
funds.
In response to the initial view NatWest provided additional information that caused the 
investigator to reach a different outcome. In her follow-up view the investigator noted that in 
August 2020, just months before the scam payments were made, Miss B set up five new 
payees in a month. This meant that setting up new payees wasnt unusual for her and there 
was no reason for the October 2020 payments to be flagged by NatWest. 
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator. In summary she said:
- She thought she was investing in a genuine investment through a genuine trader  
and would not have got involved if she didnt. She only had doubts later on in the 
scam. 
- She has traded before and knows its possible to make a good return in minutes. 
- When she became suspicious, she asked for her money back and only continued to 
make payments because she was under pressure and didnt want to lose the money 
shed already paid. 
- The payees the investigator referred to had been set up previously and the amounts 
paid were under £100 and all said they were to family, which was unusual.  
The case has now been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
NatWest is a signatory of the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
NatWest says that it provided warnings to Miss B and that she didnt have a reasonable 
basis for believing she was making payments for a genuine investment. 
I am also mindful that when Miss B made these payments, NatWest should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
NatWest should have reimbursed Miss B under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss B from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss B was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for Miss B to receive a refund of the money she lost under the CRM Code. The 
Code places a level of care on Miss B too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
- The customer has been grossly negligent. 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam.
NatWest didnt identify a scam risk when Miss B made the payments I have set out and I 
consider it acted reasonably in not doing so given the value of the payments and the lack of 
other fraud indicators. The highest payment Miss B made from her NatWest account was for 
£818.19.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
B and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns NatWest has raised are enough to 
support its position that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code 
for the payments she made. I dont think Miss B had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payments were for a genuine service or that Mr A was a legitimate investor. Ill explain why. 
- Miss B didnt complete any checks before she first agreed to invest. She told the 
investigator who considered the complaint that shed invested before (Forex trading) 
so Id expect Miss B to have some understanding of the types of things to look out 
for. Whilst I can understand Miss B may have decided to take a risk when she made the initial investment of £100, I consider it reasonable to take some steps before 
investing more.
- Miss B said that initially Mr A said he was from a company and he referred to 
colleagues and being in meetings, so she thought this was the case. All the 
messages she received about the investment were from an individual (Mr A) and all 
the payments she made were to the accounts of various individuals. Miss B says she 
questioned why and was told she was paying the person who made the investment 
for her. Genuine investments are made through investment companies and 
payments are made to company bank accounts so I think Miss B should have been 
concerned about paying individuals and about the explanation she was given.  
- Miss B says she thought she was investing in stocks and shares but received no 
documentation about the proposed investment. I consider this to be unusual and 
another sign that the investment wasnt genuine. 
- Miss B has said that an investment of £100 would lead to a profit of £5,000 to £6,000. 
The timeframe isnt particularly clear, but Miss B has referred to getting funds back 
within a day, so I believe profits were expected in days and weeks rather than years. 
This is an exceptionally high rate of return which I dont consider to be realistic  and 
I think Miss B should reasonably have had concerns and asked Mr A more about the 
investment. Miss B says she had invested before and received good returns but the 
profits she received were nowhere near as high as Mr A was offering. 
- Miss B initially agreed to a one-off investment of £100. By the end of the next day 
she had transferred over £2,000 from her accounts with NatWest and another bank. I 
cant see that she has provided a plausible reason for continuing to make these 
payments. She has explained she needed to make further payments to create a 
transaction history but hasnt clarified why this was necessary. I accept that later on 
Miss B was concerned that shed lose everything shed already transferred but dont 
believe this was the case initially and dont consider she received a plausible reason 
for the need to create a transaction history. 
- Ive seen a large number of messages Miss B exchanged with Mr A. Miss B was 
asked to stay active, often late at night at times genuine companies wouldnt be 
operating (Be active 12am please). Miss B also made transfers on a Sunday. I dont 
believe legitimate companies/traders communicate at such times. I also consider the 
tone of the messages to be very informal and out of line with what Id expect from 
someone legitimately investing for a customer. For example, Mr A refers to Miss B as 
sister on a number of occasions (and Miss B calls him cuz). 
- Many of the messages involve Mr A asking Miss B to transfer funds and her agreeing 
to do so without questioning why. There is no indication in the messages that Miss B 
was under any form of pressure to make the payments. 
- Miss B hasnt provided a plausible explanation for why she received funds from 
multiple parties or moved these funds on to another account straight away. All she 
has said is that Mr A told her that others were doing the same. I dont consider a 
genuine investment would involve receiving funds from unknown third parties and 
immediately passing them on to other unknown third parties.   
- When Miss B made all the transfers, she said they were to friends and family. Shes 
also told this service that Mr A told her to use family, and particularly cousins, if 
asked. I dont consider a legitimate investment manager would ask someone to use 
an incorrect payment reason and believe this is aspect that should have concerned 
Miss B. 
- Miss B says she became concerned about later transactions and even argued with 
Mr A. She continued to make payments though because she was told shed lose everything if she didnt. I dont believe a legitimate investment manager would 
conduct business in this manner. 
Given everything Ive said I consider Miss B should fairly and reasonably have completed 
some checks before making the payments to Mr A and that overall, she hasnt met the 
required level of care to be reimbursed under the CRM Code.
Should NatWest have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss B? 
Im also mindful that when Miss B made these payments, NatWest should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered 
whether the payments Miss B made were unusual or suspicious. 
The payments Miss B asked NatWest to make were low value payments (up to £818.19) so I 
dont consider these were payments that should have particularly stood out to NatWest as 
being unusual or indicative of possible fraud. Miss B set up a number of payees, but as the 
investigator pointed out, this wasnt unusual for Miss B. In August 2020 she set up five new 
payees. Im aware Miss B disputes this but having reviewed the technical evidence provided 
by NatWest Im satisfied none of these five payees set up in August 2020 had been set up 
before. In such circumstances, I find NatWest was obliged to make the payments in 
accordance with Miss Bs instructions and I do not find it at fault for having done so. 
Closure of Miss Bs accounts
Im satisfied NatWest acted reasonably and in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
Miss Bs accounts in closing her accounts. 
Recovery action
A fraud claim wasnt raised with NatWest until March 2021. At this stage, NatWest contacted 
the receiving banks promptly. Ive seen evidence from each of the receiving banks that the 
funds were used up within minutes to a few days of reaching the accounts. In spite of this, 
NatWest has recovered and returned around £150 to Miss B. Im uncertain where these 
funds came from but am satisfied NatWest acted reasonably and no further funds remain. 
Overall
Overall, I think Miss B made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payments were legitimate. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Ms B 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman