DRN-3145921
The complaint
Mr M complains that Succession Wealth Management Ltd failed to manage his personal 
pension or carry out annual reviews. He says he paid charges for years without getting any 
service in return.
What happened
Mr M retired in May 2014. He had a meeting with his then financial adviser (who I will call 
C) beforehand. C said it would carry out a yearly financial review and Mr M would be 
charged a fee for this. 
Mr M says he received a policy review document from his pension provider in May 2017 
which named Succession Wealth as his adviser instead of C. Mr M called C, who confirmed 
Succession Wealth was now his adviser and said he would hear from them in due course. 
Mr M didnt hear from Succession Wealth but continued to be charged. He says as he  
continued to receive his pension, he wasnt too concerned about this at the time. 
In May 2020 Mr M received another policy review document from his pension provider 
confirming Succession Wealth as his adviser. Mr M contacted Succession Wealth in June to 
obtain further information about his plan but was initially told it didnt have a record of him. 
He was then sent wrong emails due to his details being mixed up with another client.
Mr M continued to chase this and in September 2020 he was advised Succession Wealth 
had been taking fees and would arrange for these to be refunded. Mr M says he was told his 
details would be passed on to the complaint team, but he didnt hear from them.
Mr M complained about the lack of service and said he had been financially disadvantaged 
as his investment has not been maximised and he was being charged for a service that was 
not provided.
Succession Wealth said that after taking over from C, it had sent a letter to clients and so 
Mr M could have made contact at any time if he wanted to arrange a review of his pension 
arrangements. But it accepted he hadnt had a review since taking over from C and offered a 
refund of fees from 2017 onwards of around £1,100.
Mr M wasnt happy with the offer and referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
said he couldnt see that Mr M had had any reviews of his pension before 2017, not just 
afterwards, so the fees should be refunded for the whole period from 2014 until 2021. And 
as Succession Wealth had taken on Cs responsibilities, it should cover the whole period. 
The investigator didnt think Succession Wealth should pay compensation for any financial 
loss in respect of the performance of Mr Ms pension, as Mr M hadnt shown he had suffered 
a loss and in addition, it wouldnt be fair to have both a refund of fees for the lack of service 
provided and compensation in relation to the performance of his pension.  But he thought 
Mr M had been caused some distress and inconvenience and should be compensated £200 
for this. He asked Succession Wealth to pay this compensation and provide Mr M a 
calculation of how the refund was worked out.
Succession Wealth has accepted the investigators view and agreed to refund the fees, 
together with interest, and pay the compensation of £200. It has provided a breakdown of 
the refund calculation.
Mr M does not accept the settlement. He says the total fees he paid were over £3,000. Our 
investigator has explained that the fees included a charge for the initial work carried out in 
2014 and, since that work had been done, it wouldnt be fair to refund those charges. Mr M 
remains unhappy, and says his pension performed poorly because it wasnt being managed, 
so he should be compensated for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Succession Wealth has said it cant find any record of a letter being sent to Mr M about 
arranging a review of his pension. And it accepts that Mr M never signed a letter of 
engagement, meaning no terms of business were ever agreed with him. It couldnt provide a 
service to him without his agreement to this. 
Since Mr M never entered into an agreement with Succession Wealth for services, and 
never received any service, its fair that he should be refunded his fees. Succession Wealth 
isnt entitled to be paid for a service that hasnt been provided.
Succession Wealth has provided a calculation of charges to be refunded. This is split into 
two parts  the first covering the period up to 2018, and the second for the period from 2018 
to 2021, with interest added at 8% and a deduction for tax on the interest. The calculation 
has been done in that way to reflect the fact that C went into liquidation in 2018. The total net 
payment to Mr M amounts to £3,082.02, including interest up to 30 November 2021 and 
compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr M has questioned the amount offered; he says its based on charges of £2,240.66 but he  
paid a total of £3,490.80. 
The total Mr M paid includes the set up charge of £1,125 paid in 2014. That fee was for the 
initial work advising hm on his pension and putting things in place for him. Since that work 
was carried out, it was appropriate for that fee to be paid. So it hasnt been included in the 
refund calculation.
The refund is in respect of the ongoing charges that were deducted. These charges were for 
the ongoing service, which was never provided. Since this work wasnt done, Mr M should 
not have to pay for it. So these fees should be refunded to him (with interest added).
I appreciate Mr M has also asked about compensation for the loss of value in his pension 
due to it not being managed. If it was being managed, he would have had to pay charges for 
the service being provided to him. So it wouldnt be fair to refund the fees and consider 
additional compensation  he would be benefiting twice, by getting compensation for 
something he hasnt paid for. Although he wasnt receiving any service from Succession 
Wealth, he didnt challenge that at the time or ask for his pension to be reviewed. He says he 
wasnt overly concerned, since his pension was being paid. Taking all of these 
circumstances into account, I think the fair outcome here is to refund the charges to Mr M. I 
also agree with our investigators view that he should be paid £200 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the poor service and delays in responding to 
him.
For these reasons, my view is that the compensation offered (including a payment of £200 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr M has suffered) is a fair settlement. 
Putting things right
Succession Wealth Management Ltd should pay the following to Mr M:
the total set out in the calculation provided of £3,082.02 (which includes interest up to 
30 November 2021 and compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience); and
simple interest on the refund of charges at the rate of 8% from 1 December 2021 to 
the date of payment (less any required deduction for tax).
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Succession Wealth Management Ltd to make the 
payments set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman