DRN-3828875
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy Covea Insurance plc didnt renew her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D took out pet insurance through a business which Covea is responsible for (all
references to Covea include its agents). The policies covered her three dogs. In January
2022 Covea told Mrs D it wouldnt be renewing these policies as it had decided to withdraw
from the market. It advised her to seek cover elsewhere.
Mrs D was unhappy as she believed shed purchased lifetime cover for all three dogs which
would continue for as long as she continued to pay the premiums. As all of her dogs now
had pre-existing conditions these wouldnt be covered by any alternative policies she took
out. In response to her complaint Covea said it didnt have to offer a renewal and could
cancel at any time with 14 days notice; in these cases it had tried to give a minimum of two
months notice to allow customers time to find alternative cover.
Our investigator accepted Covea was entitled to stop offering cover. But she noted an
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) described the policies as a lifetime
product. She thought it was misleading to suggest these policies offered lifetime
cover when that wasnt the case. She recommended Covea pay Mrs D £350 to recognise
the distress and inconvenience caused when she realised she would need to take out
alternative cover.
Covea didnt agree. It said the policy wording made clear this was an annual policy and
ongoing cover was only provided if it offered renewal and the pet owner accepted. It said the
term lifetime was used across the insurance industry to describe a product that provides a
fixed level of cover that is reinstated at the beginning of each period of insurance as long as
the insurer offers renewal terms and the pet owner accepts.
Mrs D also made further comments. She said shed opted for lifetime cover and paid higher
premiums for that. And she referenced a telephone call with Covea relating to this. She
didnt think it was acceptable to now change the policy into one that only provided cover for
12 months and didnt cover pre-existing conditions. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any medical conditions a pet had or had
received treatment for when the policy was taken out or renewed. So ongoing or recurring
medical conditions wont be covered. But some pet insurance policies will continue to cover
any medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each
year.
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. And if an
insurer decides to stop offering cover we wouldnt generally say its fair existing consumers
should be left with no cover for a pre-existing condition their pet might have developed and
which would otherwise have been covered by the lifetime policy. Thats because the policy
will normally have been marketed to a consumer as a product which will continue to provide
cover for as long as a consumer continues to pay the premiums.
However, Ive reviewed the policy information and Im satisfied this policy isnt one where
Covea made that promise. The policy document says This is an annual policy which means
that each policy year you can claim for the cost of treatments that are covered by this policy
until the veterinary fee limit is reached. If we offer and you accept our renewal invitation, your
veterinary fee limit will be reinstated and covered treatment payments can continue to be
paid for a further period of insurance.
I appreciate Mrs D clearly believed that this was lifetime cover so Ive gone on to look at the
other information she would have seen as part of the sales process to see what she was told
about this. A Before you start your pet insurance quote screenshot says Please note that
this is a 12 month policy which may be rolled on for further periods of 12 months if renewed.
And another page included a section headed Things you need to know which said The
policy is for a 12 month period  future periods of insurance cannot be guaranteed.
Mrs D referenced a phone call she had with Covea so I asked for further information on that
from both parties. Mrs D said she always made a call when taking out insurance for her dogs
to check the policy provided lifetime cover. She said that was normally on the day of
purchase but didnt have a specific note of what happened in this case. Covea said it didnt
have any record of calls from Mrs D from either her mobile or home number.
I appreciate Mrs D recalls speaking to Covea before taking out these policies. But while 
shes explained in general terms what she would have asked during this call she hasnt
provided any specific information on what was actually said by her or Covea. And it doesnt
have any record of a call from her at the time (and has provided screenshots from its records
in support of that position).
Taking all of that that information into account I cant say Covea did make a promise to
Mrs D to provide ongoing cover for her pets. I think the written information explained future
cover would be subject to a decision to offer renewal which wasnt guaranteed. That was the
basis on which Mrs D agreed to take out the policy. And I think she had the information she
needed to decide if this was the right policy for her. So while I do appreciate the stress shes
been caused by the withdrawal of cover and the difficulties thats caused I cant say thats
come about because of something Covea got wrong.
Mrs D has suggested she paid higher premiums for lifetime cover but I dont think that is the
case. I can see there were different cover options available from Covea with a price
differential between them. But that reflected the limits on treatment costs the policies would
provide. Mrs D appears to have taken out a level 4 policy for all three dogs which offered up
to £7,500 worth of cover annually (while the policy was in place).
Ive also taken into account the IPID our investigator referenced. I appreciate that did
describe the policy as offering lifetime cover and I think that was misleading. While I note the
comments Covea has made about this in my experience lifetime policies are normally ones
where, if the consumer renews and pays the premiums, the insurer will continue to provide
cover. Thats also in line with the description of lifetime pet insurance provided by the
Association of British Insurers.
That wasnt the position with this policy. However, its not clear to me this was information
Mrs D saw as part of her initial sales journey. The IPID containing that wording is dated
October 2020 which is after Mrs D first took out these policies. And an earlier version which I
think would have been in force at the point of sale doesnt contain that wording. Even ifMrs D did see this at a later date I havent seen evidence to show this was something she
relied on when deciding to renew her policies. And, in any case, Ive already concluded the
other information Covea provided made clear the basis on which cover was being provided.
Im also satisfied Covea acted in line with the policy terms when informing Mrs D it wouldnt
be renewing her policy. The terms say We shall not be bound to accept renewal of any
insurance and may at any time cancel any insurance policy by giving 14 days notice where
there is a valid reason for doing so. And I think Covea gave Mrs D reasonable notice that it
wouldnt be renewing cover. So, while I understand it would have been distressing for her to
learn about that (and I understand the implications for her dogs), I dont think that was
caused by anything Covea got wrong. That means there arent grounds on which I can ask it
to pay her compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded to my provisional decision I dont have any reasons to alter 
the conclusions I set out in it. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman