DRN-3274648
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) sold her a term assurance 
policy which only had a term of 25 years.
What happened
In 2005 Mrs G had a phone call with Norwich Union (now Aviva) and discussed her 
protection needs. Several illustrations for differing levels of cover were produced  all but 
one had a term of 15 years. Aviva recommended a joint life policy, but the policy Mrs G 
applied for in her application form provided single life cover of £100,000 over 25 years. 
Mrs G found her paperwork for the policy recently and was unhappy to see it only protected 
her up to age 65. She felt shed been told it would cover her up to age 75. She asked Aviva 
to extend the policy, who refused as Mrs G had not selected the renewal option when taking 
out her policy. Mrs G complained as she felt she wouldnt have taken out a policy that only 
covered her up to age 65 and had no option of extension. Aviva disagreed, and the 
complaint was referred to our service.
Our Investigator found that Aviva had provided correct information regarding the length of 
term and the option of extension. Our Investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to 
suggest that any discussion which took place at the point of sale had suggested the policy 
would continue until Mrs G was 75. 
Mrs G disagreed. She explained she must have made a mistake when not selecting the 
option of renewal, but that Aviva must also have not explained this option to her clearly 
enough. Mrs G also had no recollection of writing 25 years instead of the 35 years she 
wanted. She requested that an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs Gs self-completed application differed from the policy Aviva recommended, I wont 
be considering whether the policy was suitable for Mrs G. This is because Avivas 
recommendation wasnt the policy Mrs G ultimately chose, so its responsibility was limited to 
ensuring it provided clear information to Mrs G about her self-selected policy. 
The key considerations of this case are therefore whether Aviva did enough to effectively 
communicate the term of the policy, and the lack of option for renewal.
Mrs G has said she wouldnt have taken out the policy had she known it lacked the option of 
extension and wouldnt last until she reached age 75. She feels she was told both would be 
possible at the time of sale. I recognise Mrs Gs recollections about the time of sale, but I 
must weigh her recollections against the consideration of any documentary evidence 
available and decide what is most likely to have happened. Having done so, Im not satisfied 
there is enough evidence to persuade me that, more likely than not, Mrs G was told or led to 
believe the policy she took out would end when she reached age 75, or that it included an 
option for renewal.
This is in part because I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs G was told the policy had a 
term of 35 years. All the illustrations discussed with Mrs G were for a term of 15 or 25 years, 
and I can see that Mrs G had written 25 years, not 35, in the application she completed. The 
application form also included an option for renewal, but this was not selected by Mrs G. The 
terms of the policy provide more detail around how the renewal option would have 
functioned if selected, so Im satisfied Aviva had made this option clear.
I appreciate that Mrs G has explained how personal circumstances may have led to her 
making a mistake when entering these details  but I cant say this was an error on Avivas 
part or that these options werent made clear. Mrs G has explained how she didnt read the 
terms and conditions of the policy due to how large the document was, but again I cant say 
that this was a failing on Avivas part.
Mrs G has explained how she was only informed about one policy  the one she took out. 
But I can see several illustrations were produced for her, and that the letter sent by Aviva to 
her address clearly specified Avivas own recommendation was a joint policy for a term of 15 
years and an amount of £150,000. The application form, completed by Mrs G, differed from 
this recommendation in multiple ways. 
Whilst I appreciate that I cant say with certainty what was discussed verbally at the time of 
sale, all documentation available explains how the chosen policy had a term of 25 years and 
that the option for extension hadnt been selected. Im satisfied the documentation is the 
most reliable representation of what happened available to me. So, I cant reasonably 
conclude that Aviva misled Mrs G about the nature of the policy as the balance of evidence 
doesnt support this. 
Im satisfied that Mrs G was reasonably informed that her policy would end after 25 years 
with no option of extension, as these were details selected by Mrs G herself.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman