DRN-3334595
The complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of himself and the estate of the late Mrs C that Nationwide 
Building Society wrongly advised them to invest £5,000 into a Guaranteed Equity Bond 
(GEB) in 1997. Mr C and the estate of Mrs C are represented by a claims management 
company (CMC).
What happened
After completing a financial review with Nationwide, the adviser recommended Mr and Mrs C 
jointly invest £5,000 into a Nationwide World Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB). When the 
policy matured in October 2002 it returned the original capital.
Mrs C passed in 2010 and Mr C obtained probate for the estate.
In 2021, the CMC complained to Nationwide that Mr and Mrs C were advised to place more 
than half of their free assets into the GEB; they had some investment experience, but this 
was limited to very low risk investments. And that Mr and Mrs C werent given sufficient 
information about how the GEB worked. The CMC said there was no evidence Nationwide 
had compared the GEB against current deposits and bond rates, and if Mr and Mrs C had 
been aware of attractive interest rates on these products, they would have chosen to invest 
in a fixed rate bond instead of the GEB.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint and consented to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
considering the case if Mr C and the estate of Mrs C didnt agree. Nationwide thought Mr 
and Mrs C had some investment experience and highlighted two tax-exempt special savings 
accounts (TESSA), a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) and an investment bond they held at the 
time. Nationwide explained the fact-find recorded there was over £20,000 held in cash 
accounts in the name of Mrs C and theyd only recommended an investment of £5,000. 
Nationwide thought the key features documents explained the aims and the risks of the GEB 
and said this investment reflected Mr Cs attitude to investment risk.
On behalf of Mr C and the estate of Mrs C, the CMC brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and thought Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have invested into the GEB if they had known there was only a chance of just 
getting their capital back with the GEB. The Investigator thought it likely they would have 
chosen a different option at the time as it was clear their intentions were to return their 
capital and some growth for the future.
Nationwide didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the comments the CMC and Nationwide asked me to consider. Nationwide 
believe I should take into account that Mr C purchased a similar product a number of years 
later, and that in similar cases the Financial Ombudsman hasnt upheld the complaint. I 
should clarify here that Ive reached my final decision taking into account the circumstances 
of this particular case and the specific product sold. 
Mr and Mrs C held a number of investments before Nationwide provided them with a 
recommendation. These included a mixture of cash, an investment bond and unit linked 
funds in a PEP. This suggests Mr and Mrs C had a limited knowledge of investments and 
risk versus reward, but its likely they werent experienced investors with an understanding of 
worldwide capital markets.
Nationwide recommended Mr and Mrs C invest £5,000 for the term of the GEB. This left 
more than £15,000 as an emergency fund. Nationwide further recommended Mrs C cash 
into a postal deposit account paying a gross interest rate of 6.75%. Taking into account the 
incomes for Mr and Mrs C at the time, this wasnt an unreasonable recommendation. The 
recommendations support there was a discussion about interest paying accounts at the time, 
but that Nationwide were looking at other areas for potential capital growth for a proportion of 
the available funds. The recommendation report section of the fact-find lists what Nationwide 
considered suitable products at the time. The list made no reference to fixed interest bonds 
over a similar term as the GEB. Although Nationwide say the advisor would have discussed 
fixed rate bonds, taking into account this wasnt recorded in the fact-find or recommendation 
report, I think its unlikely this option was provided to Mr and Mrs C.
The fact-find went on to record Mr and Mrs Cs objective for the £5,000 was capital growth 
with no risk to the capital. The attitude to investment risk for Mr C differed to that of Mrs C. 
They were recorded as:
Mr C  Balanced  willing to accept a moderate degree of risk in order to achieve potentially 
higher return over the medium term (more than 5-years). And prefers to leave investment 
decisions to experts.
Mrs C  Cautious  prefers to ensure capital is exposed to little or no risk but with potentially 
lower rate of returns (Bank account/National Savings).
Although the CMC says Nationwide hasnt taken into account Mrs C had a lower attitude to 
investment risk than Mr C, I dont consider this is a fair and reasonable observation. In 
reviewing what the full recommendations were, I consider Mrs Cs attitude to investment risk 
was taken into account, in particular moving cash to a 60-day account with a reasonable rate 
of interest. But, just as importantly when planning a portfolio of investments, Im satisfied the 
GEB also took into account Mr Cs attitude to investment risk as well. I appreciate the GEB 
investment was in joint names, but holistically I dont think it was unsuitable to include Mrs C 
within this investment. The cash investments were held in the name of Mrs C as she was a 
non-taxpayer at the time, so this seems reasonable to me.
So, having considered the investments as a whole, it seems to me the crux of this complaint 
is simply whether the recommendation of the GEB was suitable in the circumstances of this 
case. And in particular whether the information Nationwide provided at the point of sale was 
sufficient for Mr and Mrs C to have reasonable understanding how the GEB worked.
The key features document provided details of simulated past performance against a UK 
savings account, but also made it clear there was no guarantee of future performance. The 
CMC and the Investigator thought Mr and Mrs C had no experience of the world indices 
used and it wouldnt have been easy for them to understand how the GEB was performing. I 
considered this, but Mr C had expressed he preferred to leave investment decisions to experts. So, I dont think a lack of understanding of the world indices would reasonably have 
influenced Mr and Mrs Cs decision to invest here.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C likely understood the risks associated with the product. This is 
supported by the comments from the CMC saying that, Mr and Mrs C knew when they 
started their investment that only the original capital was guaranteed, which was duly 
returned to our client and his wife when the investment matured. 
The key features document provided an explanation and diagram showing the maximum 
return of the investment was 100%, and that the minimum would be a return of capital. It 
shows that the performance of the GEB was linked to the performance of four world indices 
and goes on to say:
The {GEB} is a fixed six-year Bond. At the end of each year during the term on the Bond 
anniversary, we will work out if the Bond has risen, or fallen in value. The maximum rise in 
any one year is 16.66%. There is no maximum fall. At the end of the six-year term, we will 
add up the percentage rise or fall in each year to give an overall percentage return. If there 
has been an overall percentage rise during the term, then your original investment will be 
increased by this amount and the total paid to you. If there has been no growth at all, or an 
overall percentage fall during the term, you will still get back the whole of your original 
Investment. The key features document went on to explain that any positive performance 
was capped at 16.66% per year, but there was no downside performance limit each year. 
And any one year of poor performance would have a significant impact on any positive 
returns. 
In the recommendation report, Nationwide say, A World GEB is linked to a collection of 
stock market indices and you will receive a return on your investment based on the increase 
of these over the 5-year term of the bond with the collective indices being averaged out over 
the last 12-months. However, should the collective Indices not increase then you will receive 
a guaranteed return of your original capital. You will receive 100% of the growth of the 
collective indices over the term. This isnt an accurate description of how the GEB worked 
and made no mention of the potential impact of any significant downturn in any one year of 
the years the bond remained invested. Nor did it provide a reasonable explanation of the 
limited upside potential versus the unlimited downside potential. It seems likely to me the 
advisor would have read out his recommendations and that Mr and Mrs C would not have 
understood the significant impact of any negative performance in any one year.
Although the GEB guaranteed a return of capital, this return was instead of any interest Mr 
and Mrs C could have earned. In my view, there was a very real risk Mr and Mrs C wouldnt 
receive a return on their capital, or that any return would be quite small compared to a more 
limited potential for a higher return. In this case this is what happened. And whilst Mr and 
Mrs C understood they may only get their capital back, which is not in dispute, Im not 
persuaded this particular GEB was suitable to help them achieve their objective for capital 
growth. This is particularly so as Mr and Mrs C had limited investment experience and relied 
in the advice provided by Nationwide.
What I think Nationwide should do
As I think dont think the bond was suitable, I think Mr C and the estate of Mrs C should be 
compensated.
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr C 
and the estate of Mrs C as close to the position he would probably now be in if Mr and Mrs C 
hadnt been given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs C would have invested differently. It isnt possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs C's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested.
What Nationwide should you do?
To compensate Mr C and the estate of Mrs C, Nationwide should:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs C's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Nationwide should also pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr C and the estate of Mrs C in a clear, 
simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Guaranteed Matured Average rate Date of Date 8% simple
Equity from fixed rate investment of maturity per year on
Bond (World 
GEB)bonds any loss from 
the end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual Value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Nationwide 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Nationwide should apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided to use this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs C wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given the 
circumstances and objectives of Mr and Mrs C. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs C 
would have invested only in a fixed rate bond. 
It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with little risk to 
their capital.
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address:
www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database , clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data / 
Quoted household interest rates / Deposit rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and 
then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link: 
https://www.financialombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understandingcompensation/compensation-investment-complaints 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold the complaint and that Nationwide Building Society should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. Nationwide should provide details of its calculation to 
Mr C and the estate of Mrs C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and the 
estate of Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman