DRN-1767021
The complaint
Mr A says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr A took out two loans with MYJAR. The first was for £100 on 7 May 2016 and this was 
repaid after 13 days. The second was for £425 on 24 May 2016 and this was repaid in 
September 2016.
An adjudicator considered Mr A's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr A 
disagreed - he said he'd had other payday loans before the MYJAR loans, so MYJAR 
shouldn't have lent to him. Mr A asked that his complaint be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
MYJAR has shown us it recorded some information about Mr A's circumstances at the time 
of the loans. The information for both loans is the same, which is unsurprising given they 
were only taken days apart.
It seems Mr A declared his income was £2,000 per month, from full-time employment.
Mr A's residential status is recorded as 'living with parents'. It seems Mr A declared no real 
living costs/expenditure. But low expenditure wouldn't be surprising for someone who 
declared they were living with family. MYJAR also carried out a credit check, which returned 
that Mr A had opened one new account in the previous three months.
Taking everything into account, I don't think MYJAR acted unfairly by lending to Mr A. The 
affordability checks it carried out were proportionate and suggested the loans were 
affordable for Mr A. I can understand Mr A's point that he had taken out other payday loans 
but this information doesn't appear to have been available to MYJAR - at least, not to the 
extent it suggested Mr A was in finical difficulty. As I said above, MYJAR's credit check 
suggested Mr A had opened just one other account in the three months before May 2016. 
And the information Mr A gave MYJAR about his circumstances also suggested the loans 
were affordable. This information wasn't significantly undermined by MYJAR's credit check, 
so it was reasonable for MYJAR to rely on it.I realise this will be disappointing for Mr A but for the reasons given above, I don't think 
MYJAR was irresponsible to have lent to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint against MYJAR Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman