DRN-2798887
The complaint
Mrs T complains (with help from her husband Mr T) that Arkwright Insurance Brokers Limited 
gave poor service in connection with her motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs T used Arkwright as an intermediary to get motor insurance with an insurance company.
After asking for proof of her no claims discount (NCD), Arkwright sent Mrs T a seven-day 
notice of cancellation and cancelled the policy. A couple of months later, police stopped Mrs 
T on suspicion of driving with no insurance. She took out other insurance.
Mrs T complained to Arkwright that it hadnt done enough to contact her before cancelling 
the policy. By a final response dated 21 February 2020, Arkwright turned down her 
complaint. Mrs T brought her complaint to us in early April 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Arkwright did enough to contact Mrs T. The investigator said that Mrs T didnt receive 
Arkwrights email on 8 November 2019 or its attempt to call her on 11 November 2019.
The investigator said that, in obtaining a new policy, Mrs T had to declare that a previous 
policy had been cancelled, which reflected in the cost of the insurance. Mrs T had confirmed 
the new policy was approximately £80.00 more than the Arkwright policy.
The investigator recommended that Arkwright should:
1. refund the additional £80.00 cost incurred;
2. amend the database to remove the marker showing the policy was cancelled, so 
this doesnt impact future premiums;
3. pay £200.00 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs T.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs T 
and to Arkwright on 29 April 2021. I summarise my findings:
I wouldve expected Arkwright to send written confirmation of the cancellation 
immediately after it took effect. It didnt do so  or refund the premium  until 17 
January 2020. If it had taken those steps on 11 November 2019 then Mrs T wouldve 
known she needed to take further action. It was for that reason that I was minded to 
find it fair and reasonable to direct Arkwright to take further steps to put things right.
Subject to any further information from Mrs T or from Arkwright, my provisional decision was 
to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Arkwright Insurance Brokers Limited to:
1. write a letter to Mrs T saying that it dealt unfairly with the cancellation of her policy in 
November 2019 and it has asked the insurer to remove any adverse information from 
any internal or external databases on which the insurer has recorded the 
cancellation; and 
2. pay Mrs T £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs T and Arkwright each accept the provisional decision. The investigator has said that I 
will issue a final decision. I see no reason to change my view.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 5 October 2019, Mrs Ts previous policy expired (according to a brokers letter 7 
November 2019). I dont know what arrangements Mrs T made between 5 and 17 October 
2019.
With effect from 17 October 2019, Mrs T got a new policy through Arkwright. She has sent 
us its email dated 17 October 2019. From what Ive seen, Mr or Mrs T paid £291.62 for the 
year.
On 24 October 2019, Arkwright sent an email to Mrs T asking for proof of NCD. It said this 
was needed in order to maintain cover.
On 29 October 2019, Arkwright wrote to Mrs T again, saying that if there was any problem 
sending proof of NCD within seven days then she should make contact.
On 1 November 2019, Arkwright tried calling Mrs T but there was no answer and it didnt 
leave a message.
On 4 November 2019, Arkwright sent an email attaching a seven-day cancellation letter The 
letter was headed CANCELLATION LETTER BY RECORDED DELIVERY. It said that it 
had no option but to cancel all cover with effect from seven days time.
The letter warned that it would be an offence to drive the vehicle without insurance. It 
concluded with the following in large print:
This Notice is final your policy will be cancelled in seven days time.
However, the covering email said that Mrs T had seven days to provide the outstanding 
information otherwise the policy would be cancelled.
Mr T has said that he or Mrs T signed for the hard copy of the recorded delivery letter.
On 7 November 2019, Arkwright telephoned Mrs T but there was no answer and it didnt 
leave a message. Also on 7 November, the previous broker wrote a letter confirming the 
NCD.
On 8 November 2019 (at around 07:00), Mr T sent an email to an incorrect address for 
Arkwright. He received an automated notification that it was undeliverable. From what Ive seen he forwarded that notification to Arkwrights correct email address. I accept that he 
believed hed sent the previous brokers letter as an attachment.
From what Ive seen, on the same day (after 12:00), Arkwright replied saying that it was 
unable to open the attachment and asking Mr T to resend it. From what Ive seen Mr T didnt 
receive that reply. 
On 11 November 2019, the seven-day notice was expiring. From a screen shot, I accept that 
Arkwright made a call but there was no answer and it didnt leave a message 
Arkwright cancelled the policy on behalf of the insurer. As her broker, Arkwright shouldve 
sent Mrs T a further letter on 11 November 2019 to confirm the policy was no longer in effect 
and Mrs T wasnt insured to drive. Also, it shouldve immediately made a refund of premium. 
It didnt take either of those steps.
On about 17 January 2020, police stopped Mrs T. She says she had her daughter in the car. 
Police charged Mrs T with driving with no insurance. I dont doubt that Mrs T suffered 
distress and inconvenience. 
I dont doubt that Mrs T hurriedly took out a new car insurance policy. She hasnt shown us 
any documents. So I dont know what it cost. Arkwright refunded the premium for the 
cancelled policy.
Mrs T has shown us evidence that on 29 April 2020, she or her husband made a payment to 
a well-known broker for just over £78.00. She has told us that this was because Arkwright 
had cancelled the previous policy.
Mrs T has shown us some evidence of increased mobile phone costs. But I consider that 
shes fallen short of showing they were caused by Arkwright.
I accept that Mrs Ts distress and inconvenience went on for about six months. By 22 July 
2020, Mrs T had received, and sent us, a message from the police that they had asked the 
court to take no further action
According to a court record, on 13 January 2021,  after the investigators opinion  police 
offered no evidence and the court dismissed the charge of driving with no insurance. 
In my view, both Mr and Mrs T and Arkwright shouldve done more to communicate with 
each other in the critical period between 8 and 11 November 2019. 
But in any event, I wouldve expected Arkwright to send written confirmation of the 
cancellation immediately after it took effect. It didnt do so  or refund the premium  until 17 
January 2020. If it had taken those steps on 11 November 2019 then Mrs T wouldve known 
she needed to take further action. It is for that reason that I find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Arkwright to take further steps to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
Those steps dont include paying the sum of about £80.00 because, by the time she took out 
the new policy, Mrs T had become aware of Arkwrights cancellation and was in a position to 
answer correctly any questions from her new broker about previous cancellation. Also, she 
hasnt shown that the new policy cost more than the old policy  and, if so, why. 
I dont think that  as an intermediary  Arkwright has direct access to the Claims 
Underwriting Exchange or any similar database. So I will direct Arkwright to write a letter to Mrs T (which she may show to other insurers or brokers) saying that it dealt unfairly with the 
cancellation of her policy in November 2019 and it has asked the insurer to remove any 
adverse information from any internal or external databases on which the insurer has 
recorded the cancellation.
I keep in mind my finding that both Mr and Mrs T and Arkwright shouldve done more to 
communicate with each other between 8 and 11 November 2019. I also keep in mind the 
considerable distress and inconvenience Mrs T suffered on 17 January 2020 and for about 
six months thereafter. I agree with the investigator that £200.00 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for this.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Arkwright Insurance Brokers Limited to:
1. write a letter to Mrs T saying that it dealt unfairly with the cancellation of her policy in 
November 2019 and it has asked the insurer to remove any adverse information from 
any internal or external databases on which the insurer has recorded the 
cancellation; and 
2. pay Mrs T £200.00 for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman