DRN-3276994
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were mis-sold packaged bank accounts by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say that they took out a fee-paying Additions Account (AA) some time before 
2000 because they were told they had to if they wanted to keep their overdraft. 
Mr and Mrs S say that they upgraded to an Additions Active Account (Active) in 2009, and 
migrated to a Current Account with Tech and Travel Pack (CATTP) in 2017 because they 
still thought they had to retain a fee-paying account to keep their overdraft.
Barclays says that Mr and Mrs S chose to take out all three accounts based solely on the 
information about the costs and benefits it gave them for each account.
Both parties agree that the date of the opening of the AA in unclear, but Ill assume it was 
between 1996 when AA type accounts first became available and 2000 when Barclays 
records show they had one. This assumption does not affect the outcome of my decision.
There are no records available of what was said when the AA was opened over 20 years 
ago and I wasnt there, so I can only look at the evidence available to me today.
Mr and Mrs S and Barclays agree that Mr and Mrs S had a fee free account before they 
opened the AA. And Mr and Mrs S say that they had an overdraft already as they say they 
were trying to retain it. 
So, Mr and Mrs S knew that fee free accounts with overdrafts were available and I think its 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the AA on the basis of what 
Barclays said to them.
Mr and Mrs S say that Barclays told them they had to have an AA if they wanted to keep 
their overdraft.
Although I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ss honest recollections, in my view its more likely than 
not that Barclays did not say that to them. I say this for the following reasons.
Barclays along with other banks usually only provides overdrafts based on a customers 
credit rating.
At the time of the AA sale free accounts with overdrafts were widely advertised and available 
from many other banks and financial institutions. So, if Barclays had said to Mr and Mrs S 
that they had to have an AA to keep their overdraft and they didnt want it, I think they would 
have looked elsewhere and found the free account with an overdraft that they preferred.
I can also see why Mr and Mrs S might have been interested in the AA. 
Barclays at the time was charging £5 every time a customer used their overdraft on a free 
account. But this charge was waived for the AA. The AA cost £5 a month, so if one was 
regularly using an overdraft, all the many benefits of the AA were effectively free.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the AA for the 
benefits it provided and not because they thought they had to if they wanted to keep their 
overdraft.
After this, because Ive decided that Mr and Mrs S knew they didnt have to take out the AA 
to keep their overdraft, the argument that they later thought they had to take out the Active 
and the CATTP to keep their overdraft because of what they were originally told falls away.
I can see no evidence of a mis-sale of the Active or CCATP, and Mr and Mrs S kept them for 
many years and made multiple use of the benefits.
So, in my view its more likely than not that Barclays didnt do anything wrong selling any of 
the three accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman