DRN-3758813
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Bank of Scotland) will not 
refund the money he paid for a car. He believes he has been scammed and has lost out as a 
result. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
Mr P has explained that he saw an advertisement for a second-hand car for sale online, on a 
well-known automotive marketplace. Mr P arranged to meet the seller on 21 March 2022 to 
look at the car. On arrival, Mr P has said he was taken to a car park to view a car, but 
although the car was the same model, it was different to the one he had seen in the advert. 
Mr P has said the seller explained to him that the actual car from the advert had been sold, 
but this other one was available, and  had a lower mileage.
Mr P viewed the other car that the seller had and took it for a test drive. He noticed that the 
hand brake wasnt applying properly, the seller told him this was because the car needed 
new brake pads and added that the car also needed a service. Still interested, Mr P agreed 
a price of £5,000 with the seller. Mr P attempted to make the payment to the business 
account of the seller, but this payment was stopped by Bank of Scotland and it asked Mr P 
to contact it. But, in the meantime, the seller provided Mr P with details for his personal bank 
account and Mr P instead made the payment to that account, which successfully went 
through.
A couple of days after taking ownership of the car, Mr P took it for a service and was advised 
that the hand brake had completely torn off and there were 11 other faults with the car, 
which he was told would cost him up to £3,000 to put right. Mr P has said he tried to contact 
the seller, but his calls were ignored.
Mr P has said he contacted Bank of Scotland the day after hed made the payment. He said 
it asked him a number of questions about the purchase and the car, including whether there 
were any faults with it. Mr P has said if Bank of Scotland had spoken to him before hed 
made the payment, rather than after hed made it, the answers he would have given would 
have appeared suspicious to the bank and something could have been done.
Mr P raised the matter with Bank of Scotland, as he believes he has been the victim of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam. Bank of Scotland looked into the concerns that Mr P 
had raised. It considered its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code), of which it is a signatory and sent its final response on 7 April 2022, not upholding 
Mr Ps complaint. It deemed the matter to be a buyer/seller dispute between Mr P and the 
car dealer and as such said the CRM code did not cover such disputes.
Mr P then brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into things 
but didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In summary, he considered this was a dispute between 
Mr P and the seller, who he had made the payment to, so he didnt think the payment was 
covered under the CRM code.
Our Investigator didnt think the evidence demonstrated Mr P had been scammed. In 
summary, he said this because he thought the merchant appeared to be genuine and Mr P 
had been able to test drive the vehicle and was told about some faults with the car, prior to 
making the payment for it and, he added that Mr P wasnt under any obligation to buy the 
car. Alongside this our Investigator said that he didnt think any intervention from the Bank 
would have revealed a scam, as he didnt think thats what was happening.
Mr P didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, he maintained that he believes 
this was a scam. As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Bank of 
Scotland to refund the money Mr P sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one  
Mr P was hoping for and I can understand why he wants to try and recover this money. But 
having thought about Bank of Scotlands actions, I am unable to say it has a responsibility 
for refunding the money Mr P sent. I will explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Bank of 
Scotland made the payment, it was complying with Mr Ps instructions. At the time, Mr P 
wanted to pay the seller and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the 
correct account details. As I dont think Bank of Scotland acted incorrectly by making the 
payment, Ive gone on to consider whether it should have refunded Mr P for any other 
reason.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which Bank of Scotland has signed up to 
and was in force at the time Mr P made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about whether  the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Mr P made and, in particular, whether Bank of Scotland ought 
to reimburse him under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite explicit 
that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our Investigator felt the payment Mr P made formed part of a buyer/seller 
dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code.
Mr P strongly disagrees. He feels the seller has scammed him. From what I have seen, 
although I accept Mr P may not have received a car that was in as good a condition as he 
expected, I dont think I can fairly say that the situation Mr P finds himself in is a scam. I think 
the payment Mr P made does form part of a civil dispute and, as such, is not covered by the 
CRM Code. This means I dont think Bank of Scotland is responsible for reimbursing Mr P 
because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
I can appreciate why Mr P feels he has been deceived. He was under the impression the car 
only had the faults the seller had told him about. But I am mindful that Mr P did receive the 
car for the money he paid. With the evidence that is available to me, I cant fairly or 
reasonably say the seller was not legitimate and had set out to deceive Mr P. There is no 
dispute that the car exists, as Mr P has taken ownership of it, and Ive not seen anything that 
makes me think the person selling it did not have the right to sell it (i.e. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest the car had been reported as stolen).
The problems Mr P has raised stem back to the condition of the car  hes said that, 
following a service, it came to light that the hand break was torn off and there were a number 
of other faults with the car. But this is an issue thats clearly stated as not being catered for 
within the CRM Code.
Having concluded that this wasnt a scam, there is nothing further for me to consider, as a 
bank has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or to give them advice on 
what they should buy. There are occasions when we do think banks should query payments 
 because of suspicious activity that appears unusual or uncharacteristic for the account or 
customer. If such potential fraud alerts are triggered, it is fair and reasonable for a banker to 
pause and ask questions of the payer about the transaction  which might unravel a scam 
and stop it before any loss occurs.
A bank does not have to intervene with authorised payments, and cannot be held liable for 
alleged losses, when there is in fact no fraud or scam, or if the payer has regrets or second 
thoughts after the event. As Ive said above, the starting position is that the bank is expected 
to process payments and withdrawals that a customer instructs it to make without undue 
delay.
But even if I considered this was a scam, which for the avoidance of doubt and for the 
reasons Ive explained I dont, I would also need to be persuaded that the banks intervention 
would have made a difference and prevented the payment from being made. I have to base 
my findings on the balance of probability  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened, taking into account what I know.
Here, even if Bank of Scotland had spoken to Mr P before hed made the payment, rather 
than after, and had asked Mr P proportionate questions, that I could reasonably have 
expected it to ask about the purpose of the payment he was making, I think its more likely 
than not that he would have still gone ahead and made the payment. I say that as Mr P had 
seen the car and had taken it for a test drive and he wasnt under any obligation to buy the 
car. I think the answers Mr P would have given, wouldnt have given Bank of Scotland any 
cause for concern that he may be at risk of financial harm.
Mr P has my sympathy, in that he hasnt received a car that was in the condition he had 
hoped for. But overall, I dont think Bank of Scotland has treated Mr P unfairly when it concluded this was a civil matter. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied Mr P isnt 
due a refund under the CRM code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could 
say that Bank of Scotland should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for Mr Ps 
loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman