DRN-3148478
The complaint
Mr L complains that he couldnt access his online account with Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
(HSDL) when he wanted to trade. He says he received an error message with a wrong 
phone number, and that there was a long wait time on the phone, so he missed the 
opportunity to trade. He wants compensation and for HSDL to make improvements to its 
online systems.
What happened
Mr L tried to log into his ISA account on 9 November 2020 as he was thinking of trading. He 
tried several times before he received an error message telling him to call. He called the 
number given but, after a long wait, was told the number hed called wasnt for the share 
dealing service. He found the correct number online, but there was an expected wait time of 
an hour due to high call volumes. He tried again the next morning, but there were still long 
delays. He spoke to HSDL in the afternoon but he says, by then, prices had moved and hed 
missed the opportunity to trade.
HSDL said it experienced higher than usual traffic to its online service on 9 November which 
affected some customers from accessing their accounts. It also experienced high call 
volumes, leading to longer than usual wait times on the phone. It said it wasnt liable, under 
its terms and conditions, for any potential losses due to any failure of its online service. It 
apologised that the error message Mr L received included an incorrect phone number. It 
offered to pay him £25 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr L did not accept HSDLs offer and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought HSDLs offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
An hours wait time on the phone was no use to anyone when they wanted to trade.
HSDLs systems couldnt manage high volumes.
He accepts HSDLs terms and conditions do not cover him for any potential loss he may 
have made by not being able to access his online account. But the £25 he has been 
offered is pitiful, particularly bearing in mind HSDL charges a £12.50 dealing fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
HSDLs terms and conditions say (6.18):
We will not be liable for any losses that you suffer due to any failure of the online service to 
the extent that the failure is beyond our reasonable control.
On 9 November 2020, trading volumes across world markets increased dramatically 
following positive Covid-19 vaccine news. The demand from HSDLs customers also surged 
and unfortunately Mr L was one of the customers who was unable to access his online 
account. In the circumstances of the unprecedented demand, I dont find it unreasonable 
that HSDL wasnt able to offer its usual level of service.
HSDL offers a phone dealing service if customers cant trade online. But this service was 
similarly extremely busy for the same reasons. I fully understand how frustrating this must 
have been for Mr L and why he wasnt able to hold on the phone for around an hour. But, 
again, I dont think the waiting time was unreasonable in the specific circumstances here.
It follows that I dont find HSDL is obliged to compensate Mr L for the difficulties he 
encountered in trying to access its dealing service that day, or for any trades he may have 
wanted to carry out.
Mr L says HSDLs platform should be more robust to withstand large trading volumes. My 
role is to resolve individual disputes between businesses and consumers. I dont have the 
power to tell HSDL how it should develop, and stress test, its systems. Thats a matter for 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). In the particular circumstances here, 
when Mr L tried to access his account online and then tried to use the phone dealing service, 
I dont think it was unreasonable that he experienced some problems.
When Mr L couldnt access his online account, the error message gave him the wrong 
number to call. HSDL apologised and, in recognition of the inconvenience caused, offered to 
pay him £25. I accept Mr L does not think this is enough to compensate him and that it only 
equates to two dealing charges. Ive thought about this carefully. Im not holding HSDL liable 
for Mr L being unable to access his share dealing account, or for the long wait times on the 
phone. But it did make a mistake when it provided him with the wrong number. HSDLs 
mistake caused Mr L inconvenience, but only to the extent that Mr L wasted time calling a 
wrong number and having to hold before it was answered. I think £25 is enough to 
compensate him for this inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr L £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman