DRN-4337483
The complaint
Miss S complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim she made on a group income protection insurance policy.
Miss S is represented by Mr K, although for ease of reading, Ill refer to Miss S throughout.
What happened
Miss S is a member of her employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provides cover if a member is unable to work due to accident or illness. The policy provides 
cover for Miss S own occupation and includes a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In February 2022, Miss S was signed-off from work. On her claim form, she stated that she 
was absent due to work-related stress; hypertension; sleep apnoea; anxiety with depression; 
panic disorder; fatigue; Covid recovery and recurring anaemia. In April 2022, Miss S 
employer made an incapacity claim on her behalf. The deferred period ran from February to 
August 2022.
L&G looked into Miss S claim and assessed the available medical evidence. It noted that an
occupational health (OH) physician had found that Miss S was fit for work with adjustments.
And following a telephone call with Miss S, L&Gs vocational clinical specialist (VCS),
concluded that the trigger for Miss S absence had been work-related stress. The VCS
considered that Miss S was medically fit for work, again with adjustments. On that basis,
L&G decided that Miss S hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity and it turned down her
claim.
Miss S asked us to consider a complaint about L&Gs decision to decline her claim.
Ultimately, an ombudsman issued a final decision on that complaint in January 2023. They
felt it had been reasonable for L&G to conclude that Miss S didnt meet the policy definition
of incapacity for the entirety of the deferred period. While they acknowledged Miss S had
physical conditions; they didnt think Miss S had demonstrated that these conditions 
prevented her from working. Instead, they felt the medical evidence indicated that Miss S
would be unable to return to work until workplace issues had been resolved. Therefore, the
ombudsman decided it had been fair for L&G to turn down Miss S claim.
Subsequently, Miss S provided L&G with further evidence which she considered
demonstrated that shed met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the entirety of the
deferred period. That evidence included the following:
A tribunal decision, dated 17 October 2022, which stated that Miss S was entitled to
Personal Independence Payments (PIP), backdated to October 2021;
A letter from a cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) practitioner, dated 2 October
2022; which stated that Miss S had been seen for sessions of CBT. Shed been
experiencing symptoms of panic disorder, depression and anxiety. The letter said
that the treating clinician had advised that a return to work wasnt recommended at
that time; due to co-presentation of some physical concerns;
A letter from a consultant rheumatologist, dated 14 November 2022, which stated
that Miss S had been diagnosed with fibromyalgia. The consultant referred to a
number of other symptoms and diagnoses Miss S had received over the previous two
years, which had been getting worse;
A letter from a consultant ear, nose and throat (ENT) surgeon, dated 6 October 2022,
which stated that Miss S had presented with a three-year history of variable
hoarseness and intermittent vertigo. The consultant referred to a diagnosis of muscle
tension dysphonia. They felt that alongside treatment for Miss S mental health
conditions; a course of voice therapy would reduce the frequency and severity of
Miss S symptoms.
L&G considered the new evidence Miss S had provided, together with its chief medical
officer (CMO). The new evidence didnt change the CMOs opinion of Miss S claim and they
remained satisfied that the major barrier to Miss S return to work was workplace stress. The
CMO still felt that Miss S was fit to return to work with adjustments. On that basis, L&G
maintained that Miss S still hadnt shown she met the policy definition of incapacity.
Miss S therefore asked us to look into a new complaint about the way L&G had assessed
the further information shed provided. She provided evidence that shed been awarded
Employment Support Allowance (ESA) in the support group category in November 2022.
While this complaint was ongoing, Miss S raised a third complaint about L&G, which related
broadly to the service shed received from it. She felt shed been blocked from providing L&G
with new OH reports.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss S complaints should be upheld. Briefly, she
thought the evidence indicated that Miss S had been experiencing symptoms of voice
hoarseness for a period of three years, which meant shed been able to work with those
symptoms previously. She accepted that Miss S had been awarded PIP at tribunal, but she
noted that a PIP claimant didnt need to be out of work to claim this benefit. She didnt think
the CBT practitioners letter explained why Miss S physical symptoms would prevent her
from working. And as the ESA award letter was dated November 2022, she didnt think it
was evidence of what had happened during the deferred period. So the investigator still
didnt think it had been unfair for L&G to conclude that Miss S hadnt met the policy definition
of incapacity. She didnt think either that there was evidence to show L&G had blocked Miss
S from providing new OH reports to it.
Miss S disagreed with our investigator. She provided additional evidence in support of her
complaint and Ive summarised this evidence below:
A copy of Miss S job description, which showed that she was required to hold face-
to-face meetings with clients; social occasions etc;
A GPs letter dated 23 March 2023, which set out Miss S symptoms and diagnoses
and which stated that Miss S remained unfit for work;
Miss S set out a list of a number of worrying symptoms and conditions she suffers
from;
A psychiatrists report, dated 23 February 2023, which provided a diagnosis of mixed
anxiety and depressed mood, with panic disorder; together with strong features of
ADD;
A report from another OH physician, dated 13 April 2023, which stated that Miss S
symptoms were not compatible with a return to work;
A further letter from the ENT consultant surgeon, dated 15 May 2023, which stated
that by February 2022, severe muscle tension dysphonia was apparent and as a
consequence, Miss S would be unable to work effectively. The consultant also said
that Miss S had been experiencing episodes of vertigo on a monthly basis  includingduring the deferred period - which would have further affected her ability to work and
fulfil her role;
A further letter from the consultant rheumatologist, dated 20 May 2023, which stated
that Miss S symptoms of fibromyalgia had become considerably worse in 2022.
The new medical evidence was sent to L&G for its CMO comments. Based on those
comments, L&G maintained its stance. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 July 2023, which explained the reasons why I didnt think 
L&G had treated Miss S unfairly. I said:
First, I must make it clear that this decision will only consider whether L&G fairly and
reasonably assessed the new medical evidence Miss S sent it following its original decline of
the claim. I will not be reconsidering any of the issues which were decided by my colleague
in January 2023.
It's clear that Miss S has been through a very difficult time and Im sorry to hear about the
impact this has had on her. I would stress though that I am not a medical expert and
therefore, my decision must necessarily be based on an assessment of the medical
evidence provided by experts in their field, including L&Gs CMO.
Id also like to reassure Miss S that while Ive summarised her detailed submissions to us,
Ive carefully considered all shes said and all thats been sent to us. Within my decision
though, I havent commented on each point thats been raised and nor do our rules require
me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of this group insurance policy and the available medical evidence, to decide
whether I think L&G has handled Miss S claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of this policy, as they form the basis of Miss S
employers contract with L&G. As Miss S claim was for incapacity benefit, I think it was fair 
and reasonable for L&G to assess whether it considered that the new medical evidence
showed Miss S claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look at L&Gs
definition of incapacity. This says incapacity:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred
period.
In order for L&G to pay Miss S benefit then, it needs to be satisfied that its an illness which
prevented her from carrying out the essential duties of her role. Its a general principle of
insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim on their policy. This
means it was Miss S responsibility to provide L&G with enough new evidence to
demonstrate that her illness had led to her being unable to carry out the essential duties of
her role. And the policy says that L&G will pay incapacity benefit the day immediately after
the last day of the deferred period. As such, Miss S needed to provide L&G with enough
evidence to show that she was incapacitated for the entirety of the deferred period 
between February and August 2022  and afterwards.
L&G assessed the new evidence Miss S provided in support of her claim, including with its
CMO and concluded that it still didnt show that she met the policy definition of incapacity.
So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence to assess whether I think this was a
fair conclusion for L&G to draw.Medical evidence provided to L&G
First, Ive looked carefully at the medical and other evidence Miss S provided to L&G when
she appealed.
Its clear that a tribunal judge ruled that Miss S was entitled to PIP and that this was
backdated to October 2021. However, as the investigator said, PIP can be awarded even if a
claimant is working. So I dont think it was unfair for L&G to conclude that this wasnt 
evidence that Miss S was incapacitated during the deferred period.
On 6 October 2022, Miss S ENT consultant stated:
Miss S presented with a three-year history of variable hoarseness, significantly worse during
stressful episodesLoss of voice can occasionally last 30 minutes, or occasionally, the
whole day.
They stated that Miss S other main complaint was intermittent episodes of vertigo. They
found no evidence of an abnormality in Miss S larynx and referred her for voice therapy with
a speech and language therapist, as they thought it would significantly reduce the frequency
and severity of her voice problems.
Later in October 2022, a CBT practitioner stated: Miss S was experiencing symptoms of
anxiety, depression and panic disorder and at the time, the treating clinician advised a return
to work was not recommended due to co-presentation of physical concerns.
Later in October 2022, Miss S consultant rheumatologist stated: We discussed in detail a lot
of your symptoms which have been getting worse over the last two yearsYou have
previous issues with anxiety and depressionyour symptoms and certainly clinical signs on
examination would suggest you have fibromyalgiaIt is my view that most of these
symptoms would fall under the bucket of fibromyalgia and treating the triggersmay help,
but more importantly, you need some information on fibromyalgiain addition to asking you
to be referred through your GP to the local fibromyalgia management service.
L&Gs CMO considered this evidence. They concluded that Miss S voice therapy could take
place alongside a resumption of work. They felt that there was no evidence of serious illness
in relation to fibromyalgia in Miss S case. They said fibromyalgia was a long-term condition
and could be managed in the workplace, as per current legislation and best practice. So they
remained persuaded by the OH physicians conclusion previously that Miss S was fit to
return to work with adjustments.
Ive considered this evidence very carefully. Its clear that Miss S was suffering from
symptoms which can sometimes be indicative of an impairing health condition. But I dont
think that L&G was unreasonable in concluding that this evidence didnt indicate that Miss S
was incapacitated in line with the policy terms. I find the CMOs conclusions on the evidence
persuasive. Thats because neither consultant suggested that Miss S was unfit for work and
both of the consultants letters indicated that not only had Miss S been experiencing these
symptoms for some time, shed previously managed to work with them. It isnt clear how or
why those symptoms went on to prevent Miss S from working during the deferred period. I
accept that the CBT practitioner indicated that Miss S clinician had felt she was unfit for
work. But the letter doesnt specify what timeframe this applied to and neither does it indicate
what physical concerns wouldve caused Miss S to be incapacitated during the deferred
period.
In the round then, Im currently satisfied it was fair and reasonable for L&G to conclude thatthis evidence didnt indicate that Miss S had met the policy definition of incapacity.
Further medical evidence
As Ive explained, following the investigators assessment, Miss S provided further medical
evidence in support of her claim, which L&G has had the opportunity to see and comment
on. Its maintained its position though and so Ive gone on to consider the evidence to decide
whether I think it was fair for it to do so.
In April 2023, another OH physician carried out an assessment ahead of a grievance
procedure meeting. The report stated:
The level of symptoms which continue to be reported are not compatible with a return to
work at this stage. Thoughts of work and the issues surrounding the grievance continue to 
result in anxiety.
And the OH also stated: I cannot provide you with a timescale for returning to work.
However I would conclude it will be very difficult for a return to take place before the
grievance is investigated I believe the current absence will be ongoing and future absence
will be dependent on levels of anxiety, particularly those related to work.
The ENT consultant has provided a letter dated 15 May 2023. Ive set out what I think are
the salient points:
I have been asked to provide a summary of Miss S ENT conditions which have been
affecting her health over the last few years, in order to provide support for a medical
insurance claimI first reviewed Miss S in September 2022 and diagnosed severe muscle
tension dysphonia of the larynx, which is a defined clinical condition where the larynx
becomes intermittently hoarse and strainedMiss S had intensive voice use in her job, but
also a history of stress and anxiety which can exacerbate the severity of muscle tension
dysphonia
(Miss S) tells me thatby the time she left work in February 2022, she was having problems 
with her voice every other day and this prevented her from carrying out her roleIt is quite
clear to me that severe muscle tension dysphonia was apparent by February 2022 and as a
consequence Miss S would be unable to work effectively
In addition to voice problems, Miss S also suffered from vestibular (balance)
disturbancesBetween February and August 2022 the episodes of vertigo were occurring
on a monthly basis on averageIntermittent vertigois a further factor that will reduce Miss
S ability to work and fulfil her role.
The consultant rheumatologist stated, on 20 May 2023, that Miss S had symptoms of
fibromyalgia for nearly two years prior to her clinic attendance however these symptoms
became considerably worse in early 2022 with her being symptomatically affected since
then, to the extent that it started impacting her day-to-day life and activities of daily
livingWe would normally recommend that a thorough occupational health assessment
should be carried out in the first instance to determine the level of function and suitability for
any given role.
Miss S GP provided a letter confirming Miss S conditions and stating that she had been
unfit for work.
As Ive set out above, L&Gs CMO has reviewed the new evidence. Ive set out their key
findings below:This report from April 2023 builds on those suggestions (from the January 2022 report), in
my view, and indicates the breakdown in employer-employee relationship precludes a return
to work and that work-related stress will continue to be a driver for ongoing absence. These
issues are not within the income protection policy definition, including an own occupation
policy for this client, and the previous OHP made valid suggestions to move forward, in my
view.
They felt that the ENT consultants letter was based on subjective reporting, as theyd
previously stated that theyd only seen Miss S once, in September 2022, when voice therapy
had been recommended. The CMO also stated that the report of Miss S vocal symptoms
didnt align with any recognised medical pathology pattern and were in contrast to the ENT
consultants earlier report that Miss S symptoms were intermittent and occasional.
In response to the ENTs consultants comments regarding Miss S vertigo, the CMO said:
I am unclear how a first attack in a few months noted in September 2022 can be logically
compatible with monthly vertigo episodes, on average, between February 2022 and August
2022 and this remark is inconsistent with the formal clinic letter to the members GP and
history taken at the time by (the consultant), in my view, which would be assumed to be
more contemporaneous and accurate, from a medico-legal perspective, relative to a to
whom it may concern letter FAO Medical Sickness Insurer written several months later for
the purpose of the income protection claim.
With regard to the rheumatologists letter, the CMO said:
Again, (the consultant) only reviewed the member on one occasion (12/11/2022), which is
outside the deferred period. The contents of this letter mostly mirror his previous comments
in the clinic letter dated 14/11/2022, which I have already commented on in my email dated
03/01/2023.
I take particular exception to the second comment around her symptoms becoming worse in
early 2022, as there is no objective basis for this remark by this doctor. The main objective 
evidence from early 2022 is from the Occupational Health Physician, who, as I remarked in
my email dated 19/08/2022, stated in January 2022 that Miss S is fit for work with
adjustments, in his opinion. He stated there is a small chance of sickness absence if her
perceptions of work do not change. (The consultant) has placed emphasis on the view of
Occupational Health in his current report. I therefore disregard the other subjective remarks
around symptoms that significantly predate his first interaction with the member, given an
Occupational Health Physician review took place in early 2022 and the recommendations
are clear.
Ive weighed-up the new evidence very carefully, as I appreciate its supportive of Miss S
position. But having considered everything, I currently find the CMOs evidence more
persuasive. The consultants letters were both written some months after the end of the
deferred period and some months after theyd originally reviewed Miss S. Both letters do
suggest subjective reporting of her symptoms by Miss S. And I agree that that its
reasonable for L&G to place more weight on the contemporaneous evidence provided by
Miss S treating doctors, than letters which were written some time after the end of the
deferred period with the aim of supporting the claim.
It's clear that OH physician who reviewed Miss S in April 2023 did think she was unfit for
work. But it seems to me that they concluded much of Miss S fitness or otherwise to work
was dependent on her relationship with her employer. On this basis then, I dont think it was
unfair for L&G to place weight on this evidence to conclude that Miss Ms absence was at
least partly due to her work-related stress and a grievance with her employer. Generally,work-related stress isnt considered to be an illness in and of itself.
I appreciate Miss S GP felt she was unfit for work. But their evidence is a record of Miss S
diagnoses, rather than a detailed explanation of how she met the definition of incapacity
during the deferred period. And while Miss S was awarded ESA in the support group
category, it appears that this award post-dated the deferred period. So I dont think this is
persuasive evidence that Miss S met the definition of incapacity during the relevant period.
Overall then, based on the totality of the evidence, I dont think it was unfair for L&G to
conclude that Miss S new evidence wasnt enough to show she met the policy definition of
incapacity between February and August 2022. So whilst I sympathise with Miss S position,
I currently find it was fair for L&G to maintain its decision to decline her claim.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Miss S has provided me with a number of additional submissions, which Ive summarised 
below:
L&G had previously wrongly assessed the claim on the understanding that Miss S 
role was sedentary. This wasnt the case;
Initially, Miss S symptoms were attributed to workplace stress, which were only 
diagnosed following onward review by her GP;
Shed understood that usually, L&G would write to consultants to ask for evidence it 
considered necessary to assess a claim. L&G hadnt done so during the deferred 
period. Any medical evidence Miss S had paid for her consultants to provide after the 
end of the deferred period had then been dismissed as having been provided too 
late;
Miss S has recently been diagnosed with a new medical condition. She now has 
around 12 co-morbid medical conditions  but it takes some time to assess and 
diagnose conditions. She queried what reassurance she could have that both L&G 
and I had taken her co-morbidities and the difficulties she faced into account;
Shed repeatedly asked L&G for an up-to-date health assessment, but it had denied 
her this opportunity. She felt this showed that L&G had failed in its duty of care;
Miss S had made a subject access request, but she felt L&G had failed to provide her 
with some of her data and she couldnt access calls it had sent her on a CD. She felt 
that it was important that I listen to all of the calls between her and L&G to ensure I 
had all of the relevant information on file to reach a fair outcome;
Miss S and her family had been severely adversely impacted by the situation and the 
additional stress L&Gs actions have placed on them. The handling of the claim has 
also affected Miss S recovery;
The backdated court order for Miss S ESA award showed that she was entitled to 
payment from October 2021  prior to the deferred period;
Miss S disagreed with the CMOs comments on the ENT surgeons later letter and 
also felt that the CMO was relying on an outdated OH report;
Covid-19 had hampered Miss S ability to be assessed and Miss S queried why the 
deferred period hadnt been adjusted to reflect this;
She believed the CMO was selective in the information they relied upon, given the 
OH physicians conclusion in April 2023 that Miss S wasnt fit to return to work. The 
OH physician had also concluded that anxiety and stress were not the only 
conditions preventing Miss S from working;
Voice therapy had been taking place, but this hadnt removed the occurrences of 
Miss S hoarseness. She accepted the fibromyalgia can be managed in the workplace, but given the non-sedentary nature of Miss S role, they didnt agree that 
it could be here;
Miss S maintained that she met the policy definition of incapacity.
L&G considered the medical report Miss S had provided setting out her new diagnosis, but it 
didnt change its position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss S, I still find that L&G has treated 
her fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Miss S for the further submissions and evidence she sent to me 
following my provisional decision. Ive read all shes said and sent me and Ive thought 
carefully about everything shes provided. However, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, our rules dont require me to address each point a consumer or business has 
raised. And I wont be commenting on each of Miss S points individually in this decision. Ill 
be focusing on what I think are the key arguments.
It remains the case that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show that they 
have a valid claim on their policy. So its Miss S responsibility to provide L&G with medical 
evidence which demonstrates that she was incapacitated for the whole of the deferred 
period and afterwards. While Miss S may have liked L&G to write to her treating consultants 
to ask for information, I think it had enough medical evidence available in order to make a 
decision on her claim. And Im satisfied that when Miss S did provide further information, it 
has appropriately considered whether that new evidence has any impact on its overall claims 
decision. I dont think its unreasonable though for L&G to place more weight on 
contemporaneous evidence than new evidence dated some months after the deferred period 
ended. Id add too that Im satisfied the evidence shows that L&G considered Miss S job role 
in line with the job description provided to it.
I appreciate that Miss S has been diagnosed with a number of co-morbidities and Im sorry 
to hear about the impact this has had on her on and her family. I find L&Gs records indicate 
that it is aware of her diagnoses and that these have been considered when L&G assessed 
the claim. I must reiterate that I am not a medical professional and so it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to make any finding on whether Miss S is incapacitated by her medical 
conditions. 
Instead, Ive reconsidered the totality of the medical evidence thats been provided. And 
while I sympathise with Miss S position, I still find L&Gs CMOs findings persuasive 
evidence that Miss S hasnt shown she met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the 
deferred period  for the same reasons I set out above. I havent seen compelling evidence 
to suggest that the CMO didnt weigh-up all of the medical evidence when providing their 
opinion. Id add too that L&G isnt obliged to arrange an independent medical examination 
for Miss S  and in this case, I think it had enough evidence to make a claims decision 
without such an independent assessment. I accept Miss S may not have been fit to work  
and I acknowledge that she was awarded backdated benefit. But being signed-off from work 
doesnt mean that a policyholder will necessarily meet an insurers definition of incapacity.
Miss S has provided me with a copy of a report showing that shes been diagnosed with a 
new medical condition. This was also sent to L&G for its comments. L&G has maintained its 
claims decision  and I dont think it was unfair for it to do so. L&G noted that Miss S had experienced and worked with traits of this condition for some years. And the diagnosing 
professional didnt suggest that Miss S wasnt fit for work  they simply suggested that she 
share her diagnosis with her employer. So I dont find L&G acted unreasonably when it 
concluded that this wasnt sufficient evidence to show Miss S met the policy definition of 
incapacity either. 
It's clear Miss S would have liked me to obtain and listen to the calls between her and L&G. 
But as the investigator explained, its for me to decide what evidence I need to consider 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Im satisfied that the evidence provided 
by both parties was and is already sufficient for me to do so and that I dont need to listen to 
the calls. I say that because I think the key evidence here is the medical evidence and L&Gs 
assessment of it. Miss S has told us that L&G didnt fully comply with a data subject access 
request she made to L&G. However, that point doesnt appear to have been addressed by 
L&G as part of this complaint and so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on it 
further here. Miss S may be able to complain to the Information Commissioners Office 
though if she feels L&G has failed to comply with data protection law.
Overall, I do sympathise with Miss S position and I appreciate how disappointed she will be 
with my final decision. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I still dont think it was unfair for 
L&G to conclude that Miss S didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. And so I still find it 
was fair for L&G to turn down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman