DRN-2069844
The complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a home 
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
This final decision will name British Gas, but it wont name any other company, product or 
individual.
Mr G had  since at least 2011  had a British Gas policy that covered the central heating 
boiler at a property of which he was the landlord.
In January 2020, British Gas said the boiler needed a new heat exchanger and associated O 
rings. But it said that - because the heat exchanger was damaged by limescale - the policy 
wouldnt cover replacement.
Instead of replacing the heat exchanger, Mr G paid to replace the boiler. He complained that 
British Gas shouldve replaced the heat exchanger.
British Gas sent a final response letter dated 13 February. Unhappy with that, Mr G brought 
his complaint to us on 5 March 2020. He said that British Gas should pay him what it had 
quoted for the heat exchanger - about £411.00.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
British Gas had applied its policy terms fairly and reasonably to decline cover.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The tenant wouldve been present on each occasion that an engineer called. 
British Gas shouldve advised Mr G personally if a Powerflush was recommended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The British Gas work history for 15 December 2011 includes the following:
. QUOTED P/FLUSH.... 
The British Gas work history for 18 December 2013 includes the following:
ADVISE SCALE NOISE FROM HEXCHANGER
From those two notes, I find it likely that British Gas had told his tenant that Mr G needed to 
arrange a power flush.
I havent seen any evidence that British Gas visited in April 2017. I think its final response 
was incorrect about that.  
From a later renewal letter, I see that Mr G had renewed the policy for a year from 7 
December 2018. Since at least that time, the policy terms included the following:
Authority to carry out work
If youre not at the property when our engineer visits, you must make sure that there 
is somebody else present who can give instructions to our engineer on your behalf.
I find that this term means that if Mr G wasnt at the property, he had to have given authority 
to someone else to act on his behalf. As that person had to be able to give instructions on 
his behalf, that person also had to receive information on Mr Gs behalf so as to make an 
informed decision and give instructions to the engineer.
So the tenant represented Mr G. I dont consider that British Gas had to confirm to Mr G the 
information it had given to the tenant on his behalf.
The policy excluded the following:
Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris - if we've told you before that 
you need to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a similar 
process, but you haven't done so.
The British Gas work history for February 2019 includes a note as follows:
Cleaned blocked heat exchanger fins
As I cant think of anything else that wouldve blocked the heat exchanger fins, I think this 
was caused by limescale and/or sludge. So British Gas didnt have to clean the heat 
exchanger but did so anyway. Having gone to that trouble, I find it likely that British Gas told 
his tenant that - to prevent a recurrence - Mr G needed to arrange a power flush.
From the renewal letter, I see that Mr G renewed the policy for a year from 7 December 
2019.
From its work history, Im satisfied that British Gas had (through his tenant) told Mr G before 
2020 that he needed to carry out a power flush. Theres no suggestion that he arranged a 
flush.
Theres no evidence to contradict the view of British Gas that by early 2020 the heat 
exchanger was damaged by scale.
So the policy didnt cover a new heat exchanger. And I dont find that British Gas treated him 
unfairly by saying Mr G would have to pay for one. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
British Gas to do any more in response to this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman