DRN-2809475
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs B complain that National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt assist them in their 
financial difficulties by waiving the early repayment charge (ERC). Mr A and Mrs B would 
like NatWest to waive the ERC.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs B had a mortgage with NatWest for a flat where they lived with their children. 
They took out a fixed rate mortgage product with the lender in October 2019. The mortgage 
product was portable but was subject to an ERC if it was redeemed early. But the pandemic 
brought significant changes to their lives with Mrs B losing her job and Mr As hours 
reducing. They decided to sell their house and as they couldnt buy another one, faced 
paying the ERC. At the time they brought their complaint they faced paying an ERC of 
£4,637 but when they came to sell the property and redeem the mortgage, the ERC was 
50% of that. Mr A and Mrs B say that NatWest offered them a mortgage holiday but that 
wouldnt have dealt with their financial problems.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that Mr A 
and Mrs B knew that an ERC would be charged if they chose to sell the flat. Mr A and Mrs B 
disagreed saying that NatWest had offered them no assistance beyond the mortgage holiday 
which it was obliged to give and believe that charging the ERC is unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Mrs B had a mortgage and in 2019 decided to take advantage of a reduced rate 
offer of 1.4% from the lender reducing the rate they would pay the lender over a period of 
two years. Like most lenders, NatWest said it would charge an ERC if Mr A and Mrs B 
redeemed the mortgage early and didnt make the payments over the committed period of 
two years. The reason lenders charge this is that they will have raised funds to lend out at a 
cost on the basis that they will get a stream of income over a time. If they dont get that 
stream of income when the mortgage is paid off early, they may lose out on the transaction 
so include an ERC as compensation to prevent suffering a loss. So, the ERC isnt an extra 
profit for the lender but compensation to prevent a loss. I should also say that the lender can 
calculate the ERC over a group of mortgages of similar type.
Mr A and Mrs B found themselves in a changed financial environment. On looking at the 
notes on the file it seems that Mr A and Mrs B had been paying the mortgage but were 
unable to do so and made a decision to sell the property because of the Covid pandemic. I 
note they in response to our investigators view they say that the only offer of assistance 
from NatWest was the one the government urged on lenders which was the payment 
holiday. But it seems that Mr A and Mrs B had made a decision to sell their property and any 
other assistance from NatWest would have been geared to them remaining in the property 
which Mr A and Mrs B didnt want, so Im not convinced that NatWest could have offered any 
other options that would have been suitable.
Mr A and Mrs B made a decision, which Im sure was a tough one to sell up and go 
mortgage free for a period. But in fairness they had agreed to take advantage of the reduced 
fixed rate interest rate provided by NatWest for a period and NatWest had told them what the 
cost would be of repaying that early. As Mr A and Mrs B had agreed to that and had taken 
advantage of the lower rate of interest, it seems reasonable that they should pay that cost 
and, so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman