DRN-1656850
The complaint
Miss D and Mr H are unhappy with the decision taken by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited following a claim on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2018 Miss D and Mr H took out a home insurance policy with Admiral. The 
Home Proposal Confirmation stated that the length of cover would be 365 days from 00.00 
30/11/2018 to 00.00 30/11/2019. 
On 27 November 2019 Miss D and Mr H cancelled their home insurance policy with Admiral. 
They were sent a letter on the same day explaining We can confirm your policy will not be 
renewing this year. All cover will cease with effect from 30/11/2019. The letter also 
explained This would mean your property will no longer be insured for any loss or damage 
and you would need to arrange alternative cover to avoid your property remaining 
uninsured. 
Miss D and Mr H arranged for a home insurance policy with another provider. The policy 
schedule showed that the period of insurance for this policy was from 30/11/2019.
On 30 November, around 13:00, fire damage was caused to Miss D and Mr Hs home. 
On 2 December Miss D contacted Admiral to report the fire. Miss D was told that theyd be 
covered for the claim. Miss D was later told that the claim wouldnt be covered by Admiral as 
they didnt have a home insurance policy in place with them at the time of the incident. 
Miss D and Mr H complained to Admiral about the confusing information theyd been 
provided about their claim. They were also unhappy with the decision by Admiral saying that 
there was no cover in place. Admiral responded to the complaint apologising for the incorrect 
information, but also explaining that the decision not to pay the claim was fair as their home 
insurance policy had ended on 30/11/2019 at 00:00. 
Miss D and H were unhappy with this response, and brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. The investigator found that Admirals decision not to pay the claim 
was fair, and in line with the policy information provided when the policy was taken out. Miss 
D wasnt happy with this, saying that 00:00 could mean midnight that same day, which 
wouldve meant that there was cover in place at the time of the incident. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think Admiral need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss D and Mr H 
but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that Admiral provided incorrect information when Miss D first contacted 
them to register her claim. They told her she had cover in place when this wasnt the case. I 
can appreciate the confusion and upset caused to Miss D by this conflicting information. But 
I also think that Admiral took steps to put things right by contacting Miss D the same day to 
explain their decision on the claim, and the incorrect information provided. I think these steps 
were fair, and a reasonable response to their error, so I dont think Admiral need to do 
anything more here. 
The crux of Miss D and Mr Hs complaint concerns Admirals decision on their claim. Miss D 
says that the policy information was unclear as it didnt clarify whether 00:00 was the 
morning of or evening of the last day of cover. She says they shouldnt be disadvantaged by 
this lack of clarity. 
The policy information says that the length of cover would be 365 days from 00.00 
30/11/2018 to 00.00 30/11/2019. When Miss D called to cancel her policy on 27 November 
2019, the letter sent to Miss D explained that All cover will cease with effect from 
30/11/2019 and This would mean your property will no longer be insured for any loss or 
damage and you would need to arrange alternative cover to avoid your property remaining 
uninsured. 
Having considered all the evidence and circumstances, I think Admirals decision not to pay 
the claim was fair. The length of the cover was explained as 365 days starting from 00:00 on 
30 November 2018. So I think the cover not being provided from 00:00 on 30 November 
2019 is in line with the policy information provided. 
Its likely that details of the policy with Admiral were provided to Miss Ds new insurance 
provider when this policy was taken out in November 2019. This is supported by the new 
insurance taking effect from 30 November, so that Miss D and Mr H werent left without any 
home insurance cover in place at any given time. Miss D has informed this service that they 
were able to make a claim under this policy which is currently being considered. 
I am empathetic to Miss D and Mr Hs circumstances. Miss D has explained that the policy 
taken out in November doesnt offer the same level of cover as what they had with Admiral. 
But I dont think it would be fair to ask Admiral to pay the claim for this reason.  Based on the 
evidence I think that Admirals decision not to pay the claim was fair, as Miss D and Mr H 
didnt have an active insurance policy in place with them at the time of the incident. Because 
of this, I wont be asking Admiral to do anything in settlement of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman