DRN-2594534
The complaint
Mrs M, on behalf of Mr M, complains about the actions of Plus500. She says that Mr M was
a vulnerable individual, entirely unsuited to operating a Contracts for Difference (CFD)
trading account. She questions whether Plus500 should have allowed Mr M to open such an
account and whether it should have allowed him to keep trading on the account when it
should have been apparent that he did not understand it and it was unsuited to him. 
  
What happened
Mrs M complained to Plus500 on the above basis but it did not uphold the complaint. It said 
it had undertaken appropriate account opening procedures and informed Mr M of the risks of 
CFD trading. It also said it carried out any trades on an execution only basis  meaning it 
did not offer advice and only executed trades of the individuals choosing. Until Plus500 was 
informed of Mr Ms condition, it says it had no reason to prevent him from trading. It also 
continued to correspond with him until he informed it that it should correspond with another 
party. For these reasons it had not initially responded to a complaint made by his parents.
The complaint was referred to this service and an investigator considered it. She did not
believe it should be upheld. She said that Mr M had been provided with a warning that the
CFD account was not suitable for him but he had agreed to proceed. He had also been
provided with the necessary documentation including the terms of the account and a
document setting out the risks of trading.
Whilst Mr M may not have known what he was agreeing to, she felt that Plus500 didnt
know this. She thought that the first point it would have known that the CFD account was
unsuitable for Mr M was 13 August 2019. But by this point the losses had been incurred and
so any action taken by it at this point wouldnt have altered the situation.
She also thought that it was appropriate for Plus500 to continue to correspond with Mr M in
the absence of a legal document (such as a power of attorney) which would allow it to deal
with another individual on Mr Ms behalf.
Mrs M said that she did not agree with the investigators findings and asked for an
ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary Mrs M said:
Plus500 potentially acted unethically in not trying to put things right in light of the fact
that there were warnings that Mr M did not know what he was doing. It should have
been obvious from some of the exchanges it had with Mr M that he had a condition or
disability which would mean that he was vulnerable and easily manipulated. He
would not have admitted to his disability - leading to his difficulties with the system
and his losses.
She has no idea how Mr M got involved with Plus500 and she believes he may have
been targeted.
The complaint was referred to me and I issued a provisional decision on 22 December 2020. 
In the provisional decision I set out the background to Mr Ms complaint and that I was 
intending to uphold it. In my provisional findings I said:
I will not go into detail about Mr Ms medical condition(s) but I do not believe it is disputed
that he is a vulnerable individual who would likely have difficulty dealing with financial
products or services and certainty something as complex as CFD trading (which would be at
the upper end of any scale of financial products or services in terms of complexity and risk).
What is material is whether there is evidence that Plus500 should have been aware that
CFD trading was not appropriate for Mr M so that it should not have provided him with CFD
trading services.
When considering this issue I have taken into account Conduct of Business requirements set
out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook and FCA Principles for
Businesses.
I consider that the FCAs Principles 2 and 6 and COBS 2 and 10 of the FCA Handbook are
of particular relevance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN
1.1.2G). Principles 2 and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
The Principles have a wide application, and I need to have regard to them when deciding
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its
client (the client's best interests rule).
The investigator set out some of the requirements of COBS 10. This included the
requirement to assess a clients knowledge and experience to determine, whether that client
has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in
relation to the product or investment service offered..
COBS 10A.3 also requires the business to warn the client if it believes the service or
product is not suitable for them:
If a firm considers, on the basis of information received to enable it to assess
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate for the client, the firm must
warn the client.
I note that Plus500 did that here. The following warning, and Mr Ms answer to it, was
recorded when Mr M applied for the CFD trading account:
Warning:
Appropriateness Risk Warning. Declaration  I acknowledge your warning that a CFD
account is not appropriate for me. However, I wish to proceed with my application and I
understand the risks associated with CFD trading. I am aware of your demo account and theinformation on your website.: True
There is additional guidance in COBS 10 that:
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by
the firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances.
It is not therefore as straightforward as warning a client that a service or product is not
appropriate for them and then simply proceeding to carry out that service or offer a product.
It is for the business to consider whether it should still provide that service or product.
In 2016 the FCA issued a Dear CEO letter to businesses offering CFD products. It said:
Areas of concern
Appropriateness assessments
CFDs are complex, leveraged products that can put clients at risk of losing more than their
original investment. Our review identified several key areas of concern, in particular, the
inability of some firms to assess appropriateness and to warn clients for whom CFDs are not
appropriate.
We saw that many firms in our sample:
 gathered insufficient detail regarding the types of service, transaction and designated
investments with which the client is familiar (COBS 10.2.2R(1))
 did not take into account the nature, volume and/or frequency of the clients previous
transactional experience or the time period over which such transactions had been carried
out (COBS 10.2.2R(2))
 used a scoring system that gave too much weight to a number of other less relevant factors
(e.g. age, length of time at address), so that the clients relevant knowledge and experience
no longer determined the outcome of the appropriateness assessment (COBS 10.2.1R(2))
 did not assess whether CFDs were appropriate for the client and instead asked the client to
self-certify that they understood the risks of the investment e.g. by ticking a box to confirm
this (COBS 10.2.1R(1))
 did not assess the clients level of experience and knowledge, for example they did not
assess the clients education or identify their profession, or relevant former profession
(COBS 10.2.2R(3))
We also saw evidence of poorly worded risk warnings that did not set out the nature and
risks of CFD products in a manner that was clear, fair and not misleading (COBS 4.2.1R and
10.3.1R).
We saw that many firms had not established a process to assess whether clients who fail the
appropriateness assessment (and who have received a risk warning letter), but who
nonetheless wish to trade in CFDs, should be allowed to proceed with CFD transactions
(COBS 10.3.3G).
In 2017 the FCA undertook a further review and considered assessments undertaken in
respect of CFD trading. Amongst other things it said:
Inadequate risk warnings to prospective clients who fail appropriateness assessments
In line with ESMA (the European Securities and Markets Authoritys) Q&As, risk
warnings should be designed to interrupt the application process. They should use clear
language to communicate that a specific product or service is not appropriate for theapplicant because the applicants answers lead the firm to the view that the applicant does
not have the knowledge and experience to properly understand the risks involved, with a
clear recommendation against proceeding with the transaction.
As such, when presenting a risk warning, applicants should not be asked to confirm an
intention to proceed with a transaction as the next step in the application process. Examples
of good practice in this regard include implementation of a mandatory "cooling off" period
after the risk warning, and/or requiring the applicant to submit or respond to a separate
communication in which they must acknowledge the risk warning, such that they do not have
the option to proceed immediately. Our review found that where prospective clients fail the
appropriateness assessment, but can easily override the risk warning and proceed to open
an account, a high proportion of clients proceed to enter into CFD transactions.
And:
Failure to evaluate whether failed applicants should be allowed to make CFD transactions.
This finding relates to a failure to evaluate adequately whether applicants who fail the
appropriateness assessment (and receive a risk warning), but who nonetheless wish to trade
in CFDs, should be allowed to proceed with CFD transactions (COBS 10.3.3G).
In most cases, firms did not give meaningful consideration to whether the applicant should
still be permitted to proceed. This allowed prospective clients to override the appropriateness
assessment and risk warning and proceed to trade without substantive deliberation.
As ESMAs Q&As state:
"taking into account the complex nature of CFDs and other speculative products and the
best interests of the client, in cases where the assessment of appropriateness indicates that
the product or service is not appropriate for a retail client or where insufficient information is
available to assess appropriateness, the best practice would be for the firm to not allow
the client to proceed."(my emphasis)
As such, it appears that some firms may be failing to comply with their obligations in relation
to customers' best interests under COBS 2.1.1R and Principle 6, as well as acting contrary
to our guidance in this regard (COBS 10.3.3G).
I have also noted and taken into account that there is also the general principle that those
providing regulated financial services should be expected to provide consumers with a level
of care that is appropriate, having regard, amongst other things, to the capabilities of the
consumers in question (Section lC(2)(e) FSMA).
When Mr M opened the CFD account, he was 21. This was a relatively young age to open
such an account and, although it is not evidence on its own, does tend to raise questions
about whether he would have the necessary experience, sophistication and wherewithal
(mental and financial) to run such an account.
Mr M was asked various questions by Plus500 before he opened an account. This was to
assess if a CFD trading account was appropriate for him.
As to CFD trading experience, Mr M indicated on Plus500s application document that he
had no such experience in the last three years. He also confirmed that he did not have any
education, professional qualifications and/or work experience in the financial services
industry during the past 3 years that was relevant to CFD trading.
His employment status was student, with annual income of £0 to £15,000 (exactly howmuch is not confirmed  this could have been nil). His savings/investments/assets were
noted as £5,000 to £20,000.
I think this detail should have indicated to Plus500 that not only was Mr M unsuited to the
type of trading, but he also did not likely have the financial sources to properly undertake
such trading and take on the very high level of risks of doing so.
As far as I am aware, Mr Ms application was entirely on-line via Plus500s website  there
was no human interaction between it and Mr M at the time  and Plus500 did not contact him
- for example so as to explore his understanding or gain any further level of granularity as to
Mr Ms background or understanding.
CFD trading involves a high degree of gearing as well as taking positions both with a view
to the asset falling or rising in value. A typical level of gearing might be 1:10 (or more) 
meaning that any gains or losses are magnified 10 times the movement of the underlying
share or investment index. Losses (and gains) can accumulate very quickly and any money
invested can be lost very quickly, which is what occurred in Mr Ms case. It is a very high
risk form of investing or trading.
In my view, in providing a CFD trading service to Mr M  with its very high level of risk of loss
 brought with it an associated level of responsibility for the business to satisfy itself of Mr
Ms understanding of the trading he was entering into and that he had the necessary
wherewithal to appreciate the risks and to appreciate all the ramifications of trading in this
way. This is not, for example, Mr M opening something as straightforward as a bank savings
or current account.
In my view, and in these specific circumstances, Plus500 should not have provided him with
CFD trading services. This was not acting in Mr Ms best interests. Based on what it knew of
Mr M it should either have declined to provide those services or entered into further
investigations  which in my view would have confirmed that CFD trading was not
appropriate for Mr M.
When considering that, I have noted the exchanges between Mr M and Plus500. I think it is
apparent, and should have been apparent to Plus500 that Mr M had little understanding as
to how his account operated and he seems to be of the understanding that he held physical
shares or holdings that he could sell at any point. Plus500 had a reasonable duty
(considering the kinds of losses that are possible with CFD trading) to withhold services to
Mr M.
So, in summary, it follows that Mr M would not have suffered the losses that he did. And my
provisional decision is that his complaint should be upheld.
I then set out how Mr M should be fairly compensated  which was to make good Mr Ms 
losses and pay him the sum of £500 for the distress that had been caused.
Mr Ms representative accepted the provisional decision.
Plus500 did not accept the provisional decision and made further submissions. In summary it 
submitted that:
It was being required to go beyond its regulatory obligations. And it was not for this 
service to determine how CFD providers should operate.
In respect of COBS 10.3.3G, it said this was Guidance, not a Rule and therefore it 
was not mandatory to follow it, providing it meets the requirement in another way. But, in any event, it does follow the Guidance. And when deciding whether to permit 
a potential customer to open an account it takes into consideration COBS 10A.2.6 
EU which correlates with Article 33(3) of MiFID: 
an investment firm shall be entitled to rely on the information provided by its clients 
or potential clients unless it is aware or ought to be aware that the information is 
manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete.  
There was nothing unusual in the information Mr M provided to it and so he was 
permitted to proceed with his application, having acknowledged the risks of doing so. 
The FCA reviewed Plus500s Onboarding procedures in 2020. The FCA, closed its 
review with no findings.
The FCAs Dear CEO letter of 2016 has been superseded by MiFID II in 2018. Risk 
wordings now comprise of mandated wording and FAQs were provided as to 
strengthening appropriateness tests. Mr M applied for his trading account in March 
2019  after MiFID II and therefore it is nonsensical to quote the Dear CEO letter, 
especially as the FCA reviewed its procedures.
The FCAs appropriateness assessments of 2017 are also moot because MiFID II 
was introduced in 2018 and took these concerns into account. Mandated risk 
warnings were brought into effect. Mr M applied for his account in March 2019 after 
all the identified poor practices were stopped.
Plus500 also said that:
The responses provided by (Mr M) led to the conclusion by our system, that having 
a high risk CFD trading account was not appropriate for him. However, as explained 
above, the rules allow for (Mr M) to proceed, provided he acknowledges the risks 
associated with doing so. We are allowed to rely on the information provided by (Mr 
M) and, therefore, in the absence of anything suspicious in his responses, his 
account application was approved.
In terms of Mr Ms age, the rules are that any adult 18 and over can have a trading 
account. There is no lower level of income or savings. Plus500 bases it procedures 
on the applicable laws, rules and guidance. It has no obligation to review the 
appropriateness responses provided by Mr M and to do so would mean entering into 
the realms of a suitability assessment. 
The risks of gearing were presented to Mr M and set out in its risk disclosure notice. 
Mr M acknowledged these risks. It also provides a demo account for the customer to 
practice trading. 
Its employees are under instruction that anyone displaying signs of mental health 
issues or a complete misunderstanding of what CFD trading entails are escalated - 
when a decision will be made whether to continue to provide an account. It does this 
to treat its customers fairly. 
There was only one reason for concern in August 2019, and Mr Ms account was 
closed the same month. Mr Ms losses occurred before this point and it is not 
required to reimburse them. It should not be required to reimburse the losses of 
anyone with a mental illness and is not required to ask questions about mental health 
in its appropriateness tests.
If my decision remains the same it will take this matter further through the courts.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
COBS 10A.2.1(R) of the FCA Handbook sets out that:
A firm must ask the client to provide information regarding that clients knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered 
or demanded to enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is 
appropriate for the client.
And COBS 10A.3.1(R) sets out:
If a firm considers, on the basis of information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate for the client, the firm must 
warn the client
This warning may be provided in a standardised format.
Here Plus500 decided that CFD trading was not appropriate for Mr M and it provided a 
warning to that effect. However, it went on to allow Mr M to open an account to trade CFDs. 
I found in my provisional decision that it should not have done so, based on the information it 
had about Mr M.   
I agree that in normal circumstances Plus500 should be able to rely on the information 
provided to it by Mr M. However, in this case my view remains that the information that it 
sought from Mr M, and which he provided, showed that it would not be appropriate to 
provide CFD trading services to him. Or, at the very least, it showed that Plus500 should 
have undertaken further investigations  which would have revealed that Mr M should not be 
provided with such trading facilities.
I referred in my provisional decision to Principles 2 and 6 and COBS 2 and 10 of the FCA 
Handbook. I acknowledged that Plus500 had issued a warning to Mr M that CFD trading was 
not appropriate for him. But I also discussed how the Principles imposed overarching 
requirements on Plus500 to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence and pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And, in particular, that 
COBS 10 set out guidance to the effect that if a client asked a firm to go ahead with a 
transaction, despite being given a warning by the firm, it was for the firm to consider whether 
to do so having regard to the circumstances.
Plus500 has itself said that Mr Ms responses led its system to the conclusion that CFD 
trading was not appropriate for him. But it decided to proceed on the basis that he had 
acknowledged the risks. It was then for it to consider if Mr M should be provided with a CFD 
trading account.  
I did not set out or direct how Plus500 should operate its business in general. I said in these 
specific circumstances, considering its obligations under the Principles and COBS, it should 
not have accepted Mr Ms application for the CFD trading facility and allowed him to use that 
service. 
Plus500 seems to suggest that because MiFID II was brought into effect that it was then 
impossible for it to act inappropriately with respect to accepting applications for CFD trading 
from individuals. And that it rendered any concerns by the FCA moot. MiFID II does not 
prevent businesss acting inappropriately and the FCAs findings remain relevant background as to the obligations of a firm to treat its clients fairly and act in their best 
interests. MiFID II may set out guidance and obligations for businesses, but it is for 
businesses to decide how they apply them. And Plus500 has other obligations under the 
Principles and COBS requirements as I have discussed. 
In this respect I do believe the FCAs Dear CEO letter of 2016 is illustrative of the nature of 
care a firm should pay to its clients and how it should pay due regard to their interests. The 
FCA set out how: 
We saw that many firms had not established a process to assess whether clients who fail 
the appropriateness assessment (and who have received a risk warning letter), but who
nonetheless wish to trade in CFDs, should be allowed to proceed with CFD transactions
(COBS 10.3.3G).
And in the 2017 review it said:
As such, when presenting a risk warning, applicants should not be asked to confirm an
intention to proceed with a transaction as the next step in the application process. Examples
of good practice in this regard include implementation of a mandatory "cooling off" period
after the risk warning, and/or requiring the applicant to submit or respond to a separate
communication in which they must acknowledge the risk warning, such that they do not have
the option to proceed immediately. Our review found that where prospective clients fail the
appropriateness assessment, but can easily override the risk warning and proceed to open
an account, a high proportion of clients proceed to enter into CFD transactions.
And:
Failure to evaluate whether failed applicants should be allowed to make CFD transactions
This finding relates to a failure to evaluate adequately whether applicants who fail the
appropriateness assessment (and receive a risk warning), but who nonetheless wish to trade
in CFDs, should be allowed to proceed with CFD transactions (COBS 10.3.3G).
In most cases, firms did not give meaningful consideration to whether the applicant should
still be permitted to proceed. This allowed prospective clients to override the appropriateness
assessment and risk warning and proceed to trade without substantive deliberation.
I acknowledge that COBS 10.3.3G is Guidance, rather than a Rule, but it sets out the kind of 
behaviour that is relevant to a consideration as to whether Plus500 fulfilled its obligations to 
treat Mr M fairly and pay regards to his interests. I have not seen evidence that Plus500 had 
any process to assess whether it should, despite Mr M failing the appropriateness 
assessment, still allow Mr M to trade in CFDs, or in fact gave any meaningful consideration 
to whether he should be permitted to proceed. 
Plus500 would appear to suggest that providing a warning was sufficient in and of itself. I do 
not agree. It is clear to me that it was not sufficient to simply provide a warning and allow Mr 
M to trade in CFDs bearing in mind the specific information he had provided to it, without 
carrying out any further investigations or asking Mr M for further information. These 
considerations do not amount to a suitability assessment in terms of taking into account Mr 
Ms particular circumstances and then making a recommendation to him. Or deciding for Mr 
M which is the best way he should trade. It is considering whether it is appropriate to provide 
a particular high risk trading account to him at all, or without further 
investigation/assessment. This is exactly the kind of duty, as discussed, that exists under the 
Principles. I would in particular refer to Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Here, Plus500 knew enough from the information it received from Mr M that it should not 
have allowed him to open a CFD trading account before, at least, it had undertaken further 
investigations. Mr M had been identified as a young, inexperienced investor with very little 
funds and no identified knowledge of investments in general, let alone a high risk 
transactions like CFDs. This, in my view, clearly warranted further investigation by Plus500 
as to whether it was appropriate to allow Mr M to proceed, in accordance with the guidance 
in COBS and the concerns set out by the FCA. 
Although Plus500 say that it didnt identify any risks until August 2019, that does not, to me, 
mean that such risks couldnt and shouldnt have been identified earlier than this. If an 
appropriate assessment had been carried out before this, as I believe Plus500 had a duty to 
do, then these risks would more than likely have been identified. 
I note Plus500s reference to the FCAs previous review of its onboarding process. As I set 
out in my provisional decision, I am not suggesting that Plus500s onboarding processes 
were flawed in general. I am saying that, in Mr Ms specific circumstances, Plus500 should 
not have allowed Mr M to trade, bearing in mind the information it had about him.  
That information was that Mr M was relatively young, was a student, had no experience of 
CFD trading in the last three years and did not have any education, professional 
qualifications and/or work experience in the financial services industry during the past three 
years that was relevant to CFD trading. He also had an unspecified income between zero 
and £15,000 (his earnings could therefore have been nil) and had unspecified savings 
between £5,000 and £20,000. 
In my view it should have been clear to Plus500 that there was a significant risk that Mr M 
was unlikely to have the wherewithal, background or financial standing for it to be  
appropriate for him to participate in CFD trading. It should not therefore have provided that 
trading service to him, or, as I have said, at least undertaken further investigations which 
would have revealed that it was inappropriate to provide Mr M with such trading facilities. A 
reasonable level of questioning or further investigation would more likely, particularly 
considering Mr Ms medical condition, have revealed that it was not appropriate to provide 
Mr M with a CFD trading account. This should be viewed in the context of the high risk 
trading that Plus500 was providing to Mr M. I set out the risks of CFD trading in my 
provisional decision  this was very high risk trading where losses could mount very quickly. 
Bearing in mind what I have said in this decision and in my provisional decision I do not 
believe that Plus500 acted in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 2.1.1R and Principle 6). It also 
more likely acted contrary to the guidance set out in COBS 10.3.3G. If it had not provided 
the trading account to Mr M then Mr M would not have suffered the losses he incurred 
through the account. 
For completeness, I disagree that I am setting a precedent as to how generally Plus500 
should operate. As I have said, I accept that Plus500 has discretion as to which individuals it 
provides its services to  subject to the Rules and Guidance set out by the FCA which I have 
already referred to. Plus500 asks for information from the applicant with which it judges 
whether it should provide those services. And, as I have set out, it had obligations in that 
respect to establish if it was appropriate to provide CFD trading facilities to an individual. 
Bearing that in mind, in these specific circumstances I believe it acted incorrectly in allowing 
Mr M to trade in CFDs. I did not say Plus500s processes were generally flawed or that my 
findings applied to any other individuals. My findings are fact specific and relate only to this 
complaint.   
I also did not say in my provisional decision that Plus500 should reimburse any losses made 
by any individual with a mental illness. And I did not say that it should have incorporated mental health questions in its appropriateness test. I said, as I have reiterated here, that 
based on the information it had, it should not have provided Mr M with a trading account. 
And if it had not done so, he wouldnt have suffered the losses he occurred.  
Putting things right
I order Plus500 to supply Mr M with a sum equivalent to the losses he incurred through the 
CFD trading account it supplied to him. Interest on that loss should also be paid. Taking a 
pragmatic approach, Plus 500 should pay interest on the total loss amount at 8% simple a 
year from the point it closed his account to the date of my final decision.
Bearing in mind the health conditions that Mr M suffers from, I also believe this matter would 
have caused him significant distress. So I order Plus500 to pay him an additional £500 in 
this respect.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Plus500 to calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman