DRN-3468051
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unreasonably refused his claim 
under his parts and garage cover. 
What happened
Mr H said his car started making a knocking sound when he was on a roundabout. He 
managed to drive his car to a garage. At the garage he said he opened the bonnet and 
noticed a belt had shredded. 
The mechanic looked in the bonnet and identified it as from the crankshaft pulley.
Mr H then called the AA to report it and explained the situation. The AA said he couldnt 
make a claim under his policy because the garage had already looked it. However, the AA 
patrol did attend his car and said his car couldnt be fixed at the roadside and needed to be 
fixed at a garage. Nonetheless Acromas maintained Mr H still couldnt make a claim under 
his policy.
So, Mr H brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view Mr Hs complaint 
should be upheld. Acromas disagreed so Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
The policy provides that first the policyholder namely Mr H must call out the AA for 
assistance before any claim for the parts and garage cover could be made. Mr H did this as 
he has shown us his copy of the call out report for 22 September 2021. That also confirms 
that Mr Hs car broke down outside a garage, and that it needed to be repaired at a garage. 
It further confirms that it was the crankshaft pulley issue. 
Mr H also produced a statement from the garage that they did nothing other than confirm it 
looked like it was a crankshaft issue. The call report makes no mention of any other person 
interfering with the issue on Mr Hs car either. 
So I do consider this is evidence that Mr H did adhere to the requirement to call out the AA 
first and that its highly unlikely the garage or its personnel outside which Mr Hs car was 
located, interfered with his by anyone at the garage.
 
That consequently supersedes the call recordings which Acromas has relied on as it has 
failed to produce in my view the call recording of where the AA did decide to send a patrol to 
view the issues with Mr Hs car. 
Further in its response to the investigators view which also detailed the evidence of the 
patrol call out, Acromas failed to deal with the fact that it occurred or the evidence from the 
garage and continue to maintain Mr H hasnt adhered to the policy terms in relation to the 
call recordings it had disclosed. I dont consider thats reasonable here given the evidence 
from Mr H.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision to uphold this complaint.
I now require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to reassess Mr Hs claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy with a view to paying it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman