DRN-3746981
The complaint
A limited company, that I will call P, has complained that it was mis-sold a busines insurance 
policy by Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited.
Ms P, director of P, has brought this complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
P took out a business policy through Jelf in December 2019. Ms P says she discussed the 
specific requirements with Jelf on the phone, including comprehensive business interruption 
cover. Ms P says this was especially important, as she had to make a previous claim that 
was not fully covered a few years earlier. However, Ms P says she found out that the policy 
did not include cover for business interruption as a result of notifiable diseases in early 2021. 
By then the policy had renewed in December 2020 for another year. 
Ms P says she contacted Jelf in February / March and September 2020 to ask about cover 
for business interruption as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and was told that they were 
not sure how the policy would respond to claims. 
In February 2021, Ms P says she contacted Jelf again to ask about the insurers position 
regarding business claims. Ms P says that unbeknown to her and without her authority, Jelf 
submitted a claim to the insurer. The insurer declined the claim, as it said there was no cover 
for notifiable diseases under the policy. 
P is very unhappy about this and says Jelf mis-sold the policy to it, as it specifically required 
full business interruption cover. Ms P has made a number of points in support of the 
complaint. I have summarised the main points below: 
P had a previous insurance policy which included cover for notifiable diseases and 
she had specifically asked for the same cover when she went to Jelf. 
If she had known in March 2020 that there was no notifiable diseases cover, she 
would not have renewed the policy in December 2020 and would have changed 
insurer. Jelf renewed the policy knowing it would not cover the pandemic and it 
should have made sure she had adequate cover for Covid-19. 
Jelf knew when she first contacted it in February 2020 that she would not be covered 
for anything to do with the pandemic but was not honest with her. 
It was only after hours on the phone chasing the insurer and Jelf between March and 
May 2021 that they were transparent and told her that the policy was Covid-adverse.
No service at all was provided to her by Jelf and it repeatedly ignored her requests 
for information.  
It took three months to get a copy of the decline correspondence from the insurer; 
weeks to get copies of the policy terms and she spent hours contacting Jelf. 
Jelf says it offered P a policy based on the demands and needs statement that P completed 
and a policy was set up in December 2019. However, it did not include any cover for 
business interruption as a result of any notifiable diseases affecting the business premises. 
When the policy renewed, it sent P the renewal terms and it says no queries or concerns 
were raised about the cover. Jelf says it decided to submit all claims enquiries to the 
insurers, regardless of whether it thought there was cover, which is why it submitted a claim 
for P in February 2021. It says there was a delay of almost four weeks in passing on the 
insurers final response letter to Ms P because it wasnt clear if the insurer had also sent this 
direct to Ms P. 
Jelf also acknowledged an error on the policy schedule, which said there was no business 
interruption cover but there had been cover at all relevant times (just not in relation to 
notifiable diseases) and this was also set out in the documents. Jelf apologised for any 
confusion caused by this and said it would discuss why the documents were set out in this 
way with the insurer. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She thought Jelf had provided P with sufficiently clear information about the policy 
being offered and asked it to check it was satisfied with the terms and P did not raise any 
concerns or queries about the cover. 
P does not accept the Investigators assessment. Ms P says the Investigator has not 
appreciated the effect of repeated lack of communication and service failures, which took her 
focus away from the business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale of the policy 
Those selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear information about the cover 
being provided, in order to put them in a position where they can make an informed choice 
about the insurance they are buying. This includes providing clear information about the 
main cover and any significant terms. The more significant, unusual or onerous a policy term 
the greater the effort to bring it to the customers attention should be, so that a customer can 
understand easily how the policy will work in practice. If the sellers are also making a 
recommendation or advising a customer to take a particular policy, then they also have to 
take steps to try and ensure the policy is suitable for them, or explain if it is not.  
The investigator said she thought that Jelf was selling the policy on an information only 
basis. I do not agree. Jelf provided details of a few policies available to P and recommended 
this one. As Jelf was recommending a particular policy it was providing advice. I do not think 
this is disputed by Jelf. It also doesnt make any difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
The policy that Jelf recommended did provide business interruption cover for various events, 
mostly to do with damage to the premises, but not cover losses arising from any infectious 
diseases. However, I cant see anything in the information provided to me that cover for 
diseases was something which was particularly relevant to P at the time it bought the policy. 
Ms P says she was particularly concerned about business interruption cover (and there was 
business interruption cover provided) but I have not seen anything to show that Ms P 
specifically asked for disease cover.  And I dont think the lack of cover for a pandemic or 
Government lockdown was significant at the time the policy started. Different policies cover 
different risks and I havent seen anything to persuade me that Jelf sold P a policy that 
wasnt consistent with its demands and needs at the time.Ms P also says she asked for exactly the same cover as P had previously. I have considered 
the copy of the previous policy she has provided. It includes cover for business interruption 
caused by a Public Emergency  likely to endanger life or property, in the vicinity of the 
Premises but this goes on to say it excludes infectious or contagious disease. There is 
also cover for business interruption as a result of an occurrence of certain specified 
diseases. The list of diseases covered does not include Covid-19.
So, even if I were satisfied Ms P had asked for the exact same cover as previously held and 
that had been possible (which I dont think is established from the documents Ive seen) the 
previous policy wouldnt have covered Covid-19 claims either.
I dont believe that Jelf did anything wrong in recommending the policy it did. I understand 
Ms P was frustrated to find that Ps policy didnt provide cover for Covid-19 losses but I think 
Jelf proposed a policy that was consistent with its demands and needs and provided 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I think it took reasonable steps to ensure 
the suitability of its advice, so it follows that I dont think Jelf mis-sold this policy. 
Service provided and renewal of the policy
In March 2020, Ms P emailed Jelf and said Any pointers or guidance based on our policy 
would be appreciated given the pandemic. Jelf replied promptly with a copy of the policy 
terms and said Ps policy would not cover Covid-19 as the business interruption cover 
required damage to the premises. I dont therefore agree that Jelf was not honest about the 
cover, or failed to answer her query.
The policy then renewed in December 2020. P already knew it would not be covered for any 
business interruption losses caused by Covid-19 under this policy when this policy renewed. 
P did not raise any other queries about the renewal. 
P says Jelf had an obligation to make sure there was cover for Covid-19 related claims. But 
even if Ms P had asked for that, by December 2020 all insurers Im aware of took steps to 
tighten their policy wordings to ensure that their policies did not provide any cover for Covid-
19 from the next renewal. So I think it is unlikely there would have been any alternative 
policy that would have been available in December 2020 that would have provided P with 
cover for Covid-19 related claims. I do not therefore think Jelf did anything wrong when 
renewing the policy.
P contacted Jelf again after the Supreme Court issued its judgement of a test case brought 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in January 2021. Ms P wanted to see if this 
affected the cover. Jelf responded the next day to say this was being considered and it was 
trying to get more information from the insurers. Jelf says it had made a decision to submit 
claims to all insurers even if it thought there was no cover. I can see P might not have  
intended to make a formal claim at that point but I do not think this was unreasonable in 
principle, as it is for the insurers to determine cover. I note Jelf informed Ms P it was 
submitting a claim and I have not seen that she made any objection to this at the time. I also 
havent seen any evidence that there was any detriment to P in doing this. 
The insurer rejected the claim but P didnt receive a copy of the insurers letter. Once Jelf 
knew she had not seen the letter, it sent Ms P a copy. 
Ms P has said it was not until 2021 that it was made clear that the policy didnt cover Covid-
19 and Jelf was not honest about the cover, but this is not the case. Jelf made the position 
clear to Ms P in March 2020. It continued to communicate with Ms P as there were 
developments regarding the test case but this didnt make any difference to the cover held 
by P.  I do not therefore agree that Jelf didnt respond to Ps queries and did not give it clear information about the policy cover. Ms P may have spent some time on this matter but I do 
not think this is a result of anything Jelf did wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman