DRN-2724577
The complaint
Mr G complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) did not make appropriate 
checks when lending to him and provided poor customer service when he tried to settle the 
loan.
What happened
Mr G took out a £400 loan with Lending Stream on 11 February 2020. It was due to be 
repaid with five monthly instalments of £123.44, and a final instalment of £122.20 on 31 July 
2020.
Mr G says that, shortly after hed taken out the loan he tried to contact Lending Stream for a 
settlement figure. He says it did not respond to emails or calls and the phone number it gave 
him was incorrect. He says that, on 18 May 2020, he received a letter dated 3 May 2020 
requesting payment within four days. Mr G adds that this has resulted in a default on his 
account.
Lending Stream says it sent Mr G an email on 25 March 2020 and told him that its phone 
lines werent in use. It says it encouraged Mr G to use the Contact Us option or the self-
service option to check his balance or make repayments. It added that it also referred Mr G 
to its online chat but that could not see hed used it. It acknowledged there had been a delay 
in responding to emails but said Mr G hadnt made any payments to the loan. It offered him a 
10% discount on his outstanding balance reducing it to £664.20 as a one-time settlement 
offer.
With regard to Mr Gs complaint about the checks it carried out, Lending Stream says it 
asked Mr G about his income and expenditure and checked his credit file and compared the 
information provided with statistical averages. It says its checks showed the repayments 
were affordable to Mr G.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He was satisfied 
Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks for the loan application and there was 
nothing in the available information to indicate Mr G was struggling to manage his money. 
But he found Lending Streams customer service had been inadequate, even given the 
exceptional circumstances caused by the pandemic. He recommended that Lending Stream 
should calculate a settlement figure backdated to 26 March 2020 and accept the lower of 
that, or its discounted settlement offer to settle the account. Our adjudicator added that 
Lending Stream should remove adverse information from Mr Gs credit file once the loan is 
settled and pay him £25 in recognition of the delays and inconvenience.
Lending Stream responded to say it would accept the £664.20 settlement, would remove the 
adverse information from Mr Gs credit file and pay him £25 for the inconvenience caused. It 
also offered to set up an affordable repayment plan but did not provide a calculation of the 
settlement amount backdated to 26 March 2020.
Mr G responded to say, in summary, that Lending Stream had not provided the requested 
settlement figure and that £25 did not reflect the amount of stress, anxiety and anger this 
caused, along with the effect on his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr G could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Affordability checks
When Mr G applied for the loan with Lending Stream, I can see it asked him about his 
income and expenditure. Mr G said his monthly income was £2,175, with expenditure of 
£1,585. Im satisfied, in the circumstances of the lending, that these checks were 
proportionate. I say that because:
This was Mr Gs first loan with Lending Stream;The monthly repayment due was less than 6% of Mr Gs declared income;
Lending Streams credit check showed no adverse information;
Lending Stream calculated Mr Gs disposable income to be around £570 per month, 
indicating the repayments were affordable.
At this stage in the lending I consider Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information 
provided by Mr G as there was nothing to indicate his financial circumstances were 
significantly different. So I find that Lending Streams checks were proportionate and that 
there was nothing in the available information to indicate that Lending Stream acted 
irresponsibly by approving the loan.
Customer Service
Mr G failed to make his first payment in February 2020 and emailed Lending Stream on 26 
March 2020 to ask for a settlement figure. It responded to explain that the email address 
Mr G had used was not a valid customer service address and, although it included a phone 
number, Lending Streams call centre was closed due to the pandemic.
Mr G then emailed an alternative address on 31 March 2020 to ask for his account to be put 
on hold pending a resolution. He received an automated response explaining a reply could 
take up to 16 weeks. Mr G then referred his complaint to this service in May 2020.
When Lending Stream replied on 11 August 2020 (19 weeks later) it explained that the 
pandemic had affected its communications and it offered a 10% discount on the original 
contracted repayment  reducing it from £738.20 (including a late payment fee of £15) to 
£664.20.
However, Im not satisfied that the 10% discount is a fair resolution. I say that because that 
assumes Mr G would have been charged interest for the full term of the loan. In this case, I 
find that Mr G should be put back in the position he would have been in had Lending Stream 
responded to his request for a settlement figure on 26 March 2020. As stated in Mr Gs loan 
agreement, if he repaid the loan early, he may also be entitled to a rebate for your early 
repayment calculated in accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004.
I also acknowledge that Mr Gs credit file has been adversely affected by Lending Streams 
communication delays. I accept that the pandemic had an unprecedented effect on Lending 
Streams operations, but I dont find it fair that Mr Gs credit file should have been impacted 
whilst he sought a response.
Finally I acknowledge that Mr G says £25 is insufficient compensation for the stress and 
anxiety this has caused to him. However, if Mr G is put back into the position in which he 
would have been had Lending Stream responded to his settlement request, and his credit 
file is amended, then I consider £25 is fair for the late response from Lending Stream given 
the exceptional circumstances at the time.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) should:
Provide a settlement figure for the loan calculated from a settlement date of 26 March 
2020;
Remove any negative information from Mr Gs credit file once the loan has been 
repaid;
Pay Mr G £25 for the stress caused by the delays.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman