DRN-3144910
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Bank of 
Scotland Plc says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its 
made an offer as if it had.
Mr and Mrs Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 30 September 2021, a copy 
of which is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr Hs complaint that the 
policy was miss-sold. 
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 30 October 2021. Mr and Mrs Es representatives have 
acknowledged receiving the decision and told us they had no further submissions they 
wished to make. So, I am proceeding to my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered 
all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I havent set out that detailed
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr 
and Mrs Es complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also 
considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Bank of Scotland 
Plc didnt need to tell Mr and Mrs E about the commission it received - so Bank of 
Scotland Plc doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs E paid for the 
PPI. But in any event Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of 
the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for 
each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not currently upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Bank of Scotland Plc made it clear that Mr and Mrs E didnt have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out. I explain why I say this. The business has not 
been able to provide a copy of the application for the cover. But from what we have 
seen in other cases in which this product was sold at a meeting at this time, 
considering all the submissions in this case and in the absence of detailed testimony 
from Mr and Mrs E to the contrary, it seems more likely that Mr and Mrs E would 
have had to agree to the cover to get it and would have known this was something 
they could decline.
Bank of Scotland Plc recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E, so it had to check that 
the PPI was right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at 
the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For 
example, Mr and Mrs E were eligible for the cover and although they had existing 
means they still seem to have had a need for cover. I say that because the cover 
could have paid out for up to 24 months, which would have been longer than either of 
their employers would have paid them sick pay at their full rate of pay and would have 
reduced their financial reliance on each other in a difficult time.
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Es employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. And although Mr and Mrs E says they had medical 
conditions, it seems they told Bank of Scotland Plc that those all occurred after 2003 
and so would not have been caught by the terms of the policy that refer to pre-existing 
medical conditions. So, I dont think it was wrong for Bank of Scotland Plc to have 
recommended it.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland Plc gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr 
and Mrs E as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought 
they were buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was 
affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs E would have declined the cover had 
Bank of Scotland Plc done anything more.While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and/or mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So, I think 
they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs E would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I 
also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were 
getting. And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr and Mrs Es representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because 
of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Bank of Scotland Plc should have disclosed 
the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Es representative has not said how these points apply to the specific 
facts and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es individual complaint  just that they apply to 
all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Es 
particular case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive 
set out above I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint.
This means Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs E.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to 
remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received  but in any event Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the 
cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made a number of representations about this part of 
the complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B 
of the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs E should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Bank of Scotland Plc failed to tell Mr and Mrs E about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Mr and Mrs E wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of 
commission and they should receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, Bank of Scotland Plc has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs 
Es PPI was less than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how 
Bank of Scotland Plc has worked this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied 
that the commission in Mr and Mrs Es case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
-the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Bank of Scotland Plc needed to tell Mr and Mrs E about the commission. So it 
follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think 
Bank of Scotland Plc treated Mr and Mrs E unfairly.
This means Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs E back any of the 
commission they paid for the PPI.
But in any event Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to give back to Mr and Mrs E some of 
the cost of the PPI to compensate Mr and Mrs E as if it had treated them unfairly. So, I 
dont think it needs to do anything more.
My provisional decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons 
I have set out above, I dont intend to uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint or make any award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs E paid for the 
PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs
E. Bank of Scotland Plc should now make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs E if it hasnt 
done so already id the money it, doesnt need to do anything more.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence of any 
further points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold the mis-
sale element of Mr and Mrs Es complaint or make any award in favour of them for this part 
of the complaint. 
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs E paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
E. Bank of Scotland Plc should now make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs E if it hasnt 
done so already. If Bank of Scotland Plc has already paid the money it, doesnt need to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman