DRN-3399290
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are complaining about the way Acromas Insurance Company Limited has 
handled a claim they made on their breakdown repair policy.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr S says his car suddenly collapsed so he contacted his breakdown 
recovery agent (BRA) for assistance from his roadside assistance policy. The recovery agent 
attended and diagnosed a suspension failure. I understand the agent carried out a 
temporary repair to enable Mr S to take the car a garage to be repaired. 
Mr and Mrs S had taken out a breakdown repair policy  provided by Acromas  alongside 
their roadside assistance policy. Mr S says he took the car to a garage  who I shall refer to 
as P  that was he recommended to take it to as he says he was told it was an approved 
repairer. Mr Ss cars MOT was due so P was asked to do the MOT as well.
Mr Ss car failed the MOT and P advised him that it couldnt carry out all the repairs. It said 
some repairs would need to be done by a manufacturers approved garage. Mr S asked to 
have the car towed to the new repairing garage under his roadside assistance policy. Initially 
the BRA said Mr S would have to pay for this, but it later agreed to cover this cost.
Mr S is unhappy with the way the claim was handled. In particular hes referred to the 
following:
He was unhappy the BRA didnt recover the car to a garage after the initial breakdown 
and he was required to drive the car himself. He says the car was unsafe to drive.
He says it took Acromas around a month to decline the claim.
He thinks its unfair the claim was declined. He says the BRA told him it would be 
covered. He maintains the loss should be covered by the policy.
He says Acromas didnt keep him updated about what was happening with his car.
Hes unhappy the garage he was told to take the car to, wouldnt do the repair work.
He was initially told hed have to pay to have the car taken to the new repairing garage.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I think it would first help to set out what Mr and Mrs S bought when they took out the 
breakdown repair policy. Alongside this, they also took out a roadside assistance policy and 
another policy which provides MOT, servicing, maintenance and repair services. Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaints relate to all of these products. But Acromas only provided the breakdown 
repair cover. So Im unable to comment on any aspect of their complaint that related to the 
other products and this includes the following:
Handling of their roadside assistance claim when Mr S first broke down  including the 
advice to continue to drive the car;
Delays in authorising the car to be recovered to the dealership to complete the further 
work required following the MOT failure;
Their complaint that they didnt get a response to emails about taking the car to the 
dealership to get the MOT repairs completed.
Mr and Mrs S will need to refer his concerns regarding this to the companies that provided 
those contracts.
In respect to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the breakdown repair policy, it seems to me 
that there are two issues I need to decide here:
1. Should Acromas have settled the claim for the damage to the suspension; and
2. Mr Ss concerns in respect to the way it handled the claim.
I shall deal with each point separately.
Is the claim covered?
Acromas has said it hasnt declined the claim, but it hasnt considered the claim because it 
hasnt been given a diagnosis of what went wrong. But I dont agree with this because its 
internal file notes refers to a report from P about the various issues with the car. I accept this 
is largely regarding the cars MOT. But this does also address the concerns with the 
suspension. I think it had enough to make a decision in respect to this. So Ive now thought 
about what Acromas would have decided had it looked at this fairly. 
The terms of the policy set out that Acromas will pay up to £535 per Paid Claim towards the 
costs of repair or replacement to insured parts, labour and VAT following a Breakdown which 
occurs during the Period of Insurance.
It further defines breakdown as:
A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure: and
b) which has been attended by the [BRA] under Your [BRA] membership: and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely: 
and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your [BRA] membership 
commenced.
The issue for me to decide is whether this was a sudden or unexpected event. Ive reviewed 
the report from P and this has said the following in respect to the suspension:
Offside Front Lower Suspension arm ball joint excessively worn
Offside Front Upper Suspension component mounting prescribed area excessively 
corroded significantly reducing structural strength
It seems to me that the suspension has failed due to wear and tear, rather than something 
that has suddenly failed. Im also particularly conscious that the car was around 15 years old 
when the breakdown occurred. Given this, had Acromas reviewed the claim as it should 
have done, I still dont think it would have settled the claim. So I dont think Mr and Mrs S 
have lost out in this respect.
Handling of the claim
I note Mr S is unhappy with the length of time it took to review the claim. Hes also unhappy he was advised to take the car to P in respect to a suspension issue, only to later find out 
that P wouldnt be able to do the work.
Firstly, Im persuaded by Mr Ss testimony that he was advised to take the car to P. But it 
seems this was to carry out the MOT, not because it was an Acromas approved repairer. So 
I dont think Acromas is liable for this.
Theres no dispute this matter took a while to be reviewed. But, at the same time, I think a lot 
of the issues also stem from the fact that the car failed the MOT. And Im particularly 
conscious that Ps report highlights a number of significant issues which caused the MOT 
failure which were unrelated to the initial breakdown  particularly in respect to issues 
regarding the fuel system. 
I can understand why Mr S was unhappy to be told to take the car to P, only to be later told 
that P couldnt complete the repair. However, Ive particularly noted the email Mr S sent to 
Acromas where he explained P had told him Regarding the MOT failures, your vehicle 
would unfortunately need specialist attention - the leaking fuel system component seems to  
be an injector, which requires specialist tools and coding/resetting on installation.
So it would seem to me that the primary reason P couldnt repair the car was because of 
issues with the MOT failure, which isnt something Acromas is liable for. I accept that P has 
also explained it was unable to carry out some welding, which means its possible it couldnt 
fix all the suspension issues. But, as I said, I dont think it was Acromas who recommended 
the car go to P. So I cant hold Acromas responsible for this. But, nevertheless, I understand 
the car was transported to the new repairing garage at no expense to Mr and Mrs S. So I 
dont think theyve significantly lost out as a result of this.
Ive also thought about the length of time it took to resolve this matter. I do think it took 
longer than it should have done to resolve this. It seems it took around two weeks to initially 
diagnose the issue. But I remain of the belief that the fundamental cause of the delay here is 
that P couldnt carry out all the repairs arising from the MOT failure. I can see P suggested 
the car needed to go to a manufacturing dealership, but Mr S expressed concern regarding 
this as he was concerned about higher costs from a manufacturing dealership doing the 
work. And there was a period of time while this was looked into. For all the reasons I set out 
above, Acromas is not liable for this delay. 
Ultimately, while I dont disagree that this claim could have been handled quicker. It seems 
to me that the fundamental concerns rest with the additional repairs that arose from the MOT 
and the fact Acromas didnt cover the cost of repair. But, as I said, I dont think Acromas is 
liable for this. 
Finally, Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint that Acromas didnt respond to a 
number of emails Mr S sent or return calls he made. Ive read the emails hes sent which he 
said he didnt get a response to. These emails werent sent to Acromas but to the companies 
that provided the roadside assistance and service and maintenance policies. So I dont think 
Acromas is liable for these delays. And, from reading these emails, it seems to me that these 
emails primarily relate to their complaint about issues with getting the repairs required 
following the MOT resolved, which supports the fact that they dont relate to Acromas. 
I recognise the confusion thats inevitably occurred with the three separate contracts and 
that Mr and Mrs S have also complained they werent aware of the various different 
companies involved. But, as I said, I can only look at Acromas actions in this complaint. 
Acromas didnt sell the various policies. So they would need to raise this with the company 
that sold them if they wish to take this matter further. Ultimately, while I sympathise with the situation Mr and Mrs S have found themselves in, I 
havent seen anything to show that Acromas treated them unfairly.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision and raised the following points:
His car wasnt transported to a different garage.
He maintains Acromas were copied into every email he sent. So he maintains its 
responsible for the failures to reply.
He doesnt think the age of the car or suspension does not mean he cant claim on his 
breakdown repair policy. He says the suspension issues were not highlighted in the cars 
previous MOT, so he doesnt believe it was caused by wear and tear. He said the car 
suddenly collapsed so he maintained that the claim was covered. 
He says Acromas were given the report which highlighted the faults and causes of them, 
so he maintained it had enough information to decide this claim. And he thinks it should 
have settled it.
He doesnt think the contracts should be separated because he can only buy the 
Acromas policy with the breakdown recovery policy he took out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional points Mr S has raised, but Ive come to the same conclusion 
as I did in my provisional decision.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I can only consider Acromas actions regarding its 
handling of Mr and Mrs Ss breakdown repair claim. I appreciate Mr S doesnt think the 
contracts should be separated, but ultimately he did have three separate contracts. So I 
cant comment on anything that happened or didnt happen regarding his breakdown 
recovery policy and his MOT and servicing policy.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that Acromas should have covered the claim for the 
damage to the suspension, but I dont agree. The engineer report has set out that the 
suspension was heavily corroded so seems to have failed over a period of time. Im also 
conscious that the original call out was for a flat tyre. Ultimately, Im not persuaded Ive seen 
enough to say that the claim would have been covered under the terms of the policy had 
Acromas reviewed it as it should have done.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ss comments that Acromas were copied into the emails 
that werent responded to. But I think the emails were primarily complaining about the fact 
his car had remained at P and the repairs hadnt been carried out. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, the primary cause of the delay in repairs were as a result of the MOT 
failure. So I dont think Acromas was responsible for responding to those emails.
I acknowledge and understand Mr and Mrs Ss unhappiness about whats happened in this 
matter. But, as I said, I can only comment on Acromas actions in this decision. And Ive not 
seen enough to say theyve lost out because of anything Acromas did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022. Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman