DRN-3536568
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S (The Estate) is unhappy with the service its received from Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) surrounding the registering of the late Mrs Ss death.
This complaint is brought on behalf of The Estate of Mrs S by Mrs C, an executor of The 
Estate.
What happened
Following the death of the late Mrs S, Mrs C took Mrs Ss death certificate to a BOI branch 
on three separate occasions. However, on each occasion BOI failed to register the death of 
the late Mrs S, meaning the proceeds of the late Mrs Ss accounts couldnt be sent to The 
Estate. Mrs C wasnt happy about this in her capacity as an executor, so she raised a 
complaint on behalf of The Estate.
BOI looked at The Estates complaint. But they had no record of Mrs C coming into branch 
and presenting the death certificate, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. The Estate 
wasnt satisfied with BOIs response, so it referred its complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that BOI could 
reasonably be said to have acted unfairly, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
The Estate remained dissatisfied, so the complaint was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I note several detailed submissions provided to this service by Mrs C on 
behalf of The Estate. Id like to thank Mrs C for making these submissions, and I hope that 
she doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I feel are the key issues of this complaint  in line with this 
services role as an informal dispute resolution service.
As such, if Mrs C notes that I havent addressed a specific point that shes raised in this 
letter, it shouldnt be taken from this that I havent read and considered that point. Indeed, I 
can confirm that Ive read and considered all submissions provided by both The Estate and 
BOI. But if I havent specifically referenced something, that means I havent felt it necessary 
to address it directly here, in order to arrive at what I feel is a fair and reasonable decision.
When evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, then I have to decide what I think 
is more likely than note to have happened in the circumstances, on the balance of the 
evidence available to me.
In this instance, The Estate maintains that it took the late Mrs Ss death certificate into a BOI 
branch on three separate occasions, and that on each occasion BOI failed to subsequently 
register Mrs Ss death which meant the relevant amounts couldnt be sent to The Estate.
On the other side, BOI maintain that they have no record of Mrs C visiting their branch on 
behalf of The Estate and presenting the death certificate to them. And BOI also contend that 
it would be highly unlikely for a failure to register a death upon presentation of a death 
certificate to have taken place on three separate, subsequent occasions.
The only evidence I have here is what the parties have said. Theres no record from either 
party to confirm that Mrs C did or didnt go into the branch as she says. But that being said, 
Mrs C has provided consistent and detailed testimony to this service about the visits she 
made.
Given that level of detail and consistency I think its likely that Mrs C did go to the branch to 
try to deal with these matters for The Estate. But for whatever reason, its clear that those 
visits didnt result in BOI registering the death of Mrs S.
One possibility here is that BOI didnt register the death of Mrs S as they should have done, 
which is what Mrs C contends. But another possibility is that Mrs C didnt have the 
documents necessary to allow BOI to register the death of Mrs S when she visited branch, 
and that given that Mrs C didnt herself hold a customer relationship with BOI, no notes were 
taken by BOI of Mrs Cs visits.
Ultimately, I dont feel theres enough information or evidence available to me to allow me to 
reasonably conclude that one version of potential events is more or less likely to have 
occurred over a different version of events in terms of what happened in the branch here. 
And if follows from this that I also dont feel I have enough information for me to be able to 
fairly or reasonably say that BOI have acted unfairly towards The Estate as Mrs C feels has 
been the case.
This isnt to say that Im disregarding Mrs Cs version of events here, but only to say that I 
dont feel that I can fairly decide this complaint in The Estates favour on the basis of the 
information and evidence available to me. And I also feel that BOIs position  that it would 
be unlikely that a request to record a customers death wouldnt be correctly actioned on 
three consecutive occasions, especially where that request was accompanied by the 
required confirmatory documents  must be taken into consideration.
Importantly, it seems to me that even if I were to consider upholding this complaint in The 
Estates favour, it doesnt appear that theres been any loss to The Estate in a way that 
means I can tell BOI that it needs to do any more here.
This is because the money in the late Mrs Ss accounts remain available to The Estate upon 
completion of the appropriate process (which this service has been corresponding with The 
Estate and BOI to progress) and also because that money has been accruing interest with 
BOI (as applicable as per the terms of the accounts in question) during the period about 
which The Estate is complaining. And in consideration of these points, it doesnt appear that 
The Estate has incurred any tangible financial loss here.
Furthermore, this service is unable to consider instructing compensation for distress or 
inconvenience to an estate. This is because distress and inconvenience are things that 
happen to a person. But an estate is a legal entity, and as such cant be distressed or 
inconvenienced. And while I appreciate that Mrs C can herself be inconvenienced and 
distressed, this complaint isnt brought by Mrs C against BOI in a personal capacity, but is 
brought by her on behalf of The Estate  which is the eligible complainant in this instance.
As such, even if I were to consider upholding this complaint in The Estates favour, I would only be able to instruct BOI to reimburse to The Estate any tangible financial losses it might 
have incurred, and I wouldnt be able to consider awarding any compensation for distress 
and inconvenience in regard to Mrs C herself. 
Indeed, the only instruction I feel I would be able to consider under these circumstances 
would be for BOI to work with The Estate to resolve the ongoing situation as soon as 
possible. But as explained previously, BOI has shown its willing to work with The Estate to 
progress and resolve this situation, as is expected of them.
I realise this might not be the outcome The Estate was wanting, but I encourage it to 
continue to work with BOI to resolve this matter and hope it will understand, given all Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman