DRN-2007880
The complaint
Ms M has complained about her let property insurance provider, Source Insurance Limited 
(although it is an intermediary and the policy is underwritten by another business). Ms M is 
unhappy that whilst she paid an extra premium mid-term, Source did not amend the date of 
her cover.
What happened
Ms M arranged a policy with Source in 2017. The cover started on 4 December 2017 and 
was due to end on 3 December 2018. Ms M asked Source on 5 and 7 December 2017 if it 
could change the end date so the policy finished on 4 December 2018. Source explained it 
wasnt possible to change the expiry date or add a days cover  all Ms M could do would be 
to cancel the cover and re-start it. Ms M said she didnt want to do that.
Ms M then made a claim on the policy. The underwriting insurer found some other claims 
Ms M had made which it said had not been disclosed to it when cover was arranged. It told 
Source that Ms M would have to pay an additional premium. Source wrote to Ms M 
explaining this. Ms M emailed Source and said she thought the charge was illegal  but she 
would pay it on condition Source added the extra days cover. Source spoke to Ms M and 
explained that the extra charge was due to the non-disclosed claims. Ms M paid the extra 
charge but said she still expected the date of cover to be amended. 
Following renewal in 2018 Ms M queried the date of cover again as it had renewed on 
4 December not the 5 December as shed expected it would. Source said the date for 
renewal had never changed, this wasnt something it had agreed or been able to do. Ms M 
showed Source an email it had sent her confirming the policy would expire on 
4 December 2018. Source said that had been a typing error; it had never been able to 
amend the cover date, this could only be done by cancelling and re-setting the policy. Ms M 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator felt Source had clearly explained the reason for the additional charge and 
that this had in no way been linked by it to an extra days cover. She said that as the policy 
was an annual contract it was reasonable that it could not be amended by a day. Ms M 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I know Ms M is unhappy about the fact of the charge she was asked to pay, 
I understand she is looking to pursue this with the underwriting insurer. I wont comment on 
the fairness of the charge itself here.
I appreciate that, from the outset of this cover, Ms M wanted it to span different dates. 
However, Source explained at the outset that this could only be done by cancelling and 
re-writing the cover which was not a suitable option for Ms M. I havent seen or heard 
anything that makes me think Source ever specifically agreed that it would amend the period 
of cover. 
As our investigator explained this is an annual policy and most insurers wouldnt offer cover 
by the day. I think Source explained the situation clearly at the outset and what the only 
option for Ms M was. That option wasnt suitable for Ms M but it was reasonable.
When the underwriting insurer determined that an extra premium was due, Source 
communicated that to Ms M. I think what it told her was clear and whilst I see that Ms M 
hoped this would be a way for her to resolve the outstanding issue of the period of cover, 
I think Source was always clear about the reason for the payment it was asking for and 
which Ms M made. I dont think it misled Ms M or agreed at any time to provide extra cover 
in exchange for the payment it had asked for on behalf of the underwriting insurer. 
I think it was unfortunate that Source made a mistake when it emailed Ms M confirming the 
policy would expire on 4 December 2018. I can see why, looking at just this exchange alone, 
Ms M might have thought this resolved all her concerns. However, I think it would be unfair 
to look at the content of that email in a bubble, without placing it into the wider context of the 
other communication which had occurred. But that is what Id have it do in order to conclude 
that, by sending this email, Source had unreasonably misled Ms M into thinking it had 
amended the policy cover date as asked. I think Source made an error here but this did not 
equate to it having bound itself to providing cover over different dates which would then 
affect the commencement date of all policies moving forwards.
With regret for any upset this causes Ms M, Im not persuaded that Source failed her when 
handling her enquiries. I think it acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman