DRN-3657324
The complaint
Mr Bs representative has complained, on his behalf, that Jarvis Investment Management 
Limited acted as a discretionary fund manager (DFM) for Mr B but didnt conduct proper due 
diligence checks when receiving instructions from a separate entity called Thames Capital 
Markets Ltd (TCM), which the representative believes wasnt regulated at the time.
What happened
My understanding is that Mr B was approached by TCM in late 2015 and, in November 
2015, Mr B opened a Lifetime Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) which was 
administered by Hartley Pension Trustees Limited. It received a transfer value of just under 
£22,500 from Sun Life on 10 December 2015, and then on 12 January 2016, just under 
£21,000 was invested by Jarvis within its ShareDeal Active account.
The application forms completed at the time recorded TCM as being Mr Bs financial adviser. 
The terms and conditions of Jarvis ShareDeal Active account set out that Jarvis would act 
as an execution only broker which would facilitate dealing and custody of assets on behalf of 
its clients.
The terms and conditions also confirmed that Jarvis wouldnt give advice on which 
transactions to select and that it wouldnt advise on the merits of a transaction or its 
consequences. It would also be under no obligation to assess whether the transactions were 
suitable for Mr B, the terms said.
They added that specific investments may not be suitable for all investors and that if Mr B 
was in any doubt as to the merits of buying or selling investments, or the consequences of 
doing so, he should consult a suitably qualified adviser.
Mr Bs funds were then invested in Emerging Capital Ltd, which was an overseas stock, and 
is now illiquid.
Mr Bs representative complained to Jarvis in June 2020, but Jarvis didnt uphold the 
complaint, saying in summary that TCM was an appointed representative of H2O Markets 
Ltd and that, when Mr B opened his account he gave TCM authority to deal on his behalf.
It said that it hadnt provided any investment recommendations to Mr B, nor was it acting as 
a DFM. It said that it didnt have the permissions to conduct such activity. In subsequent 
correspondence it said that Mr Bs account was converted into an execution only ShareDeal 
Active account when TCM ceased to trade in this type of business.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr Bs representative referred the matter to this service. One 
of our investigators considered the matter, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She said that, on the basis of the available evidence she were satisfied that Jarvis didnt 
provide Mr B with any investment advice and that it wasnt obliged to assess the suitability of 
the investment.
Jarvis would have acted on the instructions it received from either Mr B or the SIPP Manager 
 an independent firm authorised to give dealing instructions. Its investment service was 
non-advised and it didnt have the relevant permissions to act as a DFM, the investigator 
added.
The investigator therefore didnt think that Jarvis had done anything wrong by not assessing 
the suitability of the investments as it wasnt under any obligation to do so. And she was 
satisfied that the terms and conditions of the ShareDeal Active account would have made 
this clear to Mr B.
The investigator also considered whether Jarvis had accepted dealing instructions from an 
unregulated entity, but she didnt think the evidence supported the position that TCM had 
been unregulated when Jarvis accepted instructions from it. She noted that TCM had been 
de-registered as an appointed representative of H2O Markets Ltd in September 2016, but 
the disputed investment had been made in May 2016.
In conclusion, the investigator said that, whilst she sympathised with Mr Bs concern that the 
investment had been unsuitable, she didnt think that Jarvis had acted unfairly in not 
assessing its suitability for him.
Mr Bs representative disagreed, however, saying that Mr B wasnt aware until later that his 
account may have been an execution only account. Hed confirmed that Jarvis didnt act in 
his best interests and failed to both review the underlying investment strategy and make a 
suitable recommendation based on Mr Bs circumstances.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
the same reasons.
Mr Bs representative has reiterated its view that Jarvis should have assessed the underlying 
suitability of the investments, but I dont think it needed to do so, and as pointed out by the 
investigator, I think this would also have been clear to Mr B from the accounts terms and 
conditions.
Had Jarvis been operating a DFM service, then I could consider whether it had invested Mr 
Bs pension funds in line with a particular mandate. But this wasnt the case either.
Jarvis essentially operated a share dealing account, and took instructions from authorised 
individuals or entities to invest on Mr Bs behalf. It operated on an execution only basis, and 
again, I think this was made sufficiently clear in its terms and conditions.
As with the investigator, I dont think Jarvis has treated Mr B unfairly, and so I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld.
For clarity, H2O, as the parent company of TCM would have been responsible for the 
investment advice given to Mr B. Its unclear as to whether Mr B has complained to that 
business, or if its in default, referred the matter to the FSCS. But this is an option which 
might be open to him.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman