DRN-4004571
The complaint
Miss A has complained that American Express Services Limited (Amex) failed to adhere to 
her instructions by paying for additional hotel accommodation expenses on her Amex card 
when she expressly told it not to since the additional hotel expenses were complimentary. 
What happened
Miss A was on holiday abroad and staying in a hotel. It was shortly after a pandemic 
lockdown. Miss A complained to the hotel about the lack of facilities and service. She said 
the hotel manager then gave her three further nights free as compensation for the issues 
she had endured. Miss A extended her holiday to avail of those further nights.
Miss A said on checking out of the hotel she was advised there was nothing further to pay. 
On her way to airport she phoned Amex to advise it nothing more should be debited from her 
card. The Amex advisor told there was nothing pending to be paid from her card at that 
stage and if there was in future then she could dispute the charge. 
Some days later the hotel charged her card for these three extra nights. Miss A disputed this 
and raised a complaint with Amex. Amex said as the hotel produced the signed registration 
card with Miss As agreement to cover these costs. It therefore paid the hotel the fees it was 
requesting. 
Dissatisfied Miss A brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld as she thought Amex had followed their own chargeback rules correctly. Miss A 
disagreed so her complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March and I said the following: 
 Amex has shown us that Miss A didnt sign anything for hotel expenses beyond 14 
June 2022 when the original invoice for her hotel stay in the sum of £720 was signed. 
The later invoice the hotel sent to Amex for the disputed amount of £618.70 for the 
extra three nights stay was unsigned by Miss A, which suggests Miss As card 
details were keyed in after Miss A had left the hotel.
 
It took a little time for Miss A to be able to locate the email correspondence which she 
had with the hotel at the time given the email string had to be retrieved from a server. 
Im satisfied Miss A has appropriately located that email string and that its genuine. 
She was also able to provide a short statement from the person who retrieved the 
email from the server too. 
This email string clearly details that the hotel confirmed it had given Miss A three 
further nights stay as complimentary and this is dated 18 June 2021. It explained she 
would also have to change rooms.
Amex has now provided the relevant call recordings. The essential one is dated 21 
June 2022 which details the contents of a conversation between Miss A and the 
Amex advisor explaining that Miss A was not consenting to any further payment to 
the hotel given the three further nights accommodation were given by the hotel as 
complimentary. I can see given the issues Miss A had encountered with the hotel she 
was concerned that it might ask for further payment. The Amex adviser confirmed at 
that time there was nothing pending on her card and if it came in later then she could 
dispute it. 
When Miss A raised her complaint with Amex, Amex appeared to ignore the contents 
of this call recording. I dont consider that reasonable. More so when Miss A went to 
the trouble of explaining the situation to the Amex adviser on the day that she left the 
hotel. 
I think its clear that Miss A agreed to pay the original costs of her holiday in the sum 
of £720. Its also clear from Miss As email evidence that given the service issues she 
encountered at the hotel, it clearly offered her a further three nights stay as 
complimentary. Therefore, I dont consider Miss A then agreed to pay for these 
further nights and I dont agree the original agreement which Miss A did sign, covers 
the additional three nights stay costs. As such I dont consider Miss A authorised this 
further payment of £618.70 and therefore, I dont consider shes liable to pay it.
 
Therefore, I consider Amex should rework the account as if the payment hadnt been 
made. I understand Miss A said she hadnt used her card since this dispute arose. 
This caused Miss A some considerable inconvenience for which I think Amex should 
pay her £200 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have agreed to my provisional decision, and on that basis, I see no reason to 
change both the reasoning and outcome of that decision as detailed above. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require American Express Services Limited to do the following:
Rework Miss As account as if the payment hadnt been made. 
In the unlikely event that Miss A has had to make more repayments than she 
otherwise would have, it should refund those payments adding interest of 8% simple 
from the date Miss A made those repayments to the date of the refund. If income tax 
is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to 
Miss A for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Miss A the sum of £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Rona DoyleOmbudsman