DRN-2390626
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund some disputed transactions.
What happened
Mr H complained about two ATM withdrawals and 64 transactions which were carried out 
between 6th June 2018 and 25th January 2019.  His first contact with Barclays was in 
December 2018 when he complained about transactions from 6th June.  On that occasion, 
Barclays issued a new card to him.
He next complained in April 2020 and this was in relation to transaction carried out on the 
new card up to and including those carried out in January 2019.  
In total, the disputed transactions came to just under £700.  Of the 64 disputed transactions, 
49 were contactless payments and 15 were card not present (CNP) transactions.
Mr H told Barclays he had not noticed the payments earlier as he had suffered several family 
bereavements and was not paying close attention.  He said his ex-partner had been using 
his card without his authority and he now wanted the payments refunded.
Barclays investigated Mr Hs complaint but decided to hold him liable for the payments.  It 
also issued him with a notice to close his account which Mr H was not happy with.  In its final 
response, it said it was Mr Hs responsibility to keep his account secure and to monitor the 
activity.  Mr H had failed to do this.  It also said it had made no errors in notifying him of its 
intention to close his account. 
So, Mr H came to this service where we investigated his complaint for him.  In its 
submissions to us, Barclays told us Mr H had made previous fraud claims on his account. 
Some, for a small amount of money, were not investigated but were reimbursed. Others 
were declined and some were withdrawn.
Having considered the case, our investigator didnt think she could ask Barclays to do 
anymore.  She explained this to Mr H in detail.  But Mr H didnt accept her view and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.  He didnt say what he disagreed with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
disputed transactions
The rules of our service mean that I have to determine this complaint by reference to what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering 
whats fair and reasonable I am required to take into account; relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where there are gaps in the evidence, for whatever reason, I will decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened  having regard to all the circumstances.
Of particular relevance to Mr Hs complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs).  Amongst other things, they say that if the evidence suggests its more likely than 
not that Mr H authorised these transactions, Barclays is entitled to hold him liable for them. If 
the evidence is to the contrary, then it must reimburse the disputed amount.
The investigator explained the concept of authorisation in her view to the parties  so I will 
summarise here.
Authorisation consists of two elements  authentication and consent.  Authentication in this 
case is the use of Mr Hs card and correct PIN, and the reading of the cards chip.  So, on 
the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated.
Consent, in the context of banking transactions, isnt defined in the regulations, so I therefore 
think it is fair, when considering whether consent was given, to apply the common definition 
of consent, which is to give permission for something to happen. 
I said I would consider what was fair and reasonable in arriving at my decision  and having 
done so, Im afraid its not good news for Mr H because I think he consented to these 
payments for the following reasons:
- the reports about the disputed transactions were delayed.  The reason Mr H gives for 
this is that he was having difficulties at the time and was not playing close attention.  
However, the number of times he logged in to his online banking suggests to me that 
he would, more likely than not, have seen the payments coming out. I think if Mr H 
hadnt recognised the payments, he would have got in touch with Barclays a lot 
sooner
- the activity on the account is not the usual activity I would expect to see if a third 
party was using it.  The transactions were often for small amounts and made 
sparingly.  I think if someone wanted to abuse this account, the funds would have 
been used up a lot quicker
- a second card was issued to Mr H in December 2018.  I think its unlikely a third 
party, not living with Mr H, would be able to access the card on odd occasions, use it 
and return it  all without Mr H knowing
- there is no credible explanation as to how Mr Hs security details had been 
compromised
Finally, Ive considered what weight, if any, I place on Mr H saying he had reported his ex-
partner to the police  and I think it is very little, if any.  I dont think that an allegation to the 
police, of which I have seen no evidence, supports Mr Hs submissions that he did not 
authorise these transactions.
notice to close 
According to the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account, Barclays is entitled to serve him 
with notice of its intention to close the account.  I can see that the appropriate notice was 
given  so I cant see anything to suggest it acted unfairly or unreasonably here either.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman