DRN-2199875
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with what Assurant General Insurance Limited did after he made a claim on 
his mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
In October last year Mr J received a replacement for his damaged phone from Assurant. He 
says there were problems with the replacement which he initially tried to resolve himself. As 
that was unsuccessful he contacted Assurant again in December to report the fault. Assurant 
werent able to repair the phone and a replacement was sent. This was delivered to an 
address which was different to the address Mr J had asked it to be sent to. 
Mr J was unhappy with the condition of that phone and said two further replacements were 
either in poor condition or faulty. A fifth phone was sent on 24 December. Mr J said there 
were marks on the casing but having looked at photographs Assurant said it was of 
acceptable quality and it wouldnt be exchanging this. 
In response to the complaint Mr J made Assurant upheld the issues hed raised about the 
faulty or poor condition of the other devices he was sent. It also accepted a call with him 
could have been dealt with more professionally and there had been a delay in providing him 
with the amount hed receive if he opted for a cash settlement. It also agreed one of the 
phones was sent to an incorrect address. It offered to pay £75 in recognition of this. Our 
investigator thought that was fair but Mr J didnt agree. 
I let both sides have my initial thoughts on the complaint earlier this month. I said having 
looked at the photos of the phone Mr J was sent on 24 December I didnt think the marks to 
the casing would affect its functionality. And the policy did allow Assurant to provide a 
refurbished phone which wouldnt necessarily be in the same condition as a brand new one. 
So I thought the provision of this phone did meet the requirements of the policy.
However, prior to that Mr J had received four replacements which Assurant hadnt disputed 
had issues with them. I felt he could reasonably have expected a phone sent by his insurer 
would be of reasonable quality and I could understand why he would have been increasingly 
frustrated and distressed at repeatedly receiving devices where that wasnt the case. 
That also put Mr J to unnecessary time and trouble in calling Assurant to rectify the situation 
and it accepted some of those calls could have been handled better. In addition it sent one 
of the phones to the wrong address. Mr J also told us how stressful hed found this 
experience. Taking all of that into account I felt compensation of £175 would better reflect 
the impact on him of what happened. 
Mr J didnt agree. In particular he said an adviser was extremely rude during one of his calls 
and thought the compensation should be increased to £225. 
Assurant didnt agree either. It said only the first replacement device had a fault confirmed 
on it; the other replacements werent checked. Assurant said it was unlikely all the devices 
sent out were faulty and it could be that Mr J was unhappy with their appearance.  And while 
the second device was delivered to Mr Js policy address rather than the alternative address 
he requested there was only a short distance between the two properties. 
It said it had apologised for what happened during a call on 17 December but didnt agree 
there had been significant distress caused to Mr J by that. And while there was a delay in 
offering him a cash settlement in a subsequent call this was then provided and Mr J didnt 
accept it. It felt it had acted to resolve matters as quickly as possible and thought the redress 
it had already offered was fair.  So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J hasnt provided any new information in relation to the condition of the fifth phone and it 
remains my view that the provision of this device met the requirements of his policy. So the 
issue is over the compensation that should be provided for what happened prior to that. 
Assurant says only one of the devices was actually checked. But it had the opportunity to 
check the others and could have done so if it had wanted to challenge Mr Js view on their 
condition. Instead it accepted in its response to Mr Js complaint that these devices were 
either faulty or in poor condition. Mr J has also been clear about that and in one of his calls 
with Assurant he went into more detail about the problems with these phones. So given the 
available evidence Im satisfied they did have issues. And while I appreciate the second 
phone was sent to the address Assurant held for Mr J and he was able to retrieve this I think 
that will in itself have been frustrating for him. 
I also note the comments Assurant has made about the call on 17 December. Ive listened to 
that call and while I recognise this was a challenging and difficult conversation Assurant has 
accepted it could have been handled better. I think its reasonable to say there will have 
been an impact on Mr J because that didnt happen. And while I appreciate the cash 
settlement issue was rectified relatively quickly I think it will nevertheless have caused Mr J 
some understandable frustration that this information wasnt provided earlier.  
But I dont agree there are grounds to increase the compensation as Mr J argues. Ive 
listened to the call hes referenced and I dont agree the adviser was rude to him. Mr J was 
understandably annoyed during this call but the adviser remained calm and professional and 
sought to assist him. And, as the call was becoming unproductive, I dont think he did 
anything wrong in bringing it to a close. So it remains my view that £175 is the right amount 
to reflect the impact on Mr J of what Assurant got wrong in this case.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Assurant General Insurance Limited will need to pay 
Mr J £175.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman