DRN-3262594
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) gave them incorrect 
information about their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have a travel insurance policy linked to their package bank account with 
Barclays. They were due to travel abroad on 25 September 2020. They said they spoke with 
Barclays a few weeks prior to their departure to ask if they were covered if they couldnt 
travel due to Covid-19 and were told they were covered. 
Mr and Mrs F had their Covid-19 tests 72 hours prior to their departure but one test result 
didnt come through on time, so the airline didnt allow them to board the flight. They made a 
claim for their trip cancellation cost on their travel insurance but the insurer declined it as the 
policy didnt provide cover for such circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy because they say Barclays gave them the wrong information and 
this resulted in their travel insurance claim being declined. A separate complaint has been 
raised, and looked into by our service, about their travel insurer.
Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint to this service. They said Barclays told them theyd be 
covered. They said that if Barclays had told them otherwise, they would have taken out extra 
insurance. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said that Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong. She said Barclays provided screen shots to show searches of incoming calls using 
both Mr and Mrs Fs mobile numbers and the results show the only incoming call made to 
Barclays was on the day of their departure. She concluded there wasnt any evidence to 
suggest that Barclays gave incorrect information. 
In December 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and direct Barclays to pay £100 compensation. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. And Ill explain 
why below.
Following Mr and Mrs Fs request for a final decision I asked both parties to provide further 
information about the calls. Barclays say they cant locate a call prior to Mr and Mrs Fs 
departure on 25 September 2020 and have provided evidence of the searches theyve 
undertaken. I also asked Mr and Mrs F to provide us with evidence such as an itemised 
phone bill showing when the call in question took place. This was so we could then ask 
Barclays to do a further search for this call and hear exactly what was discussed. We first 
requested this information on 7 October 2021 but Mr and Mrs F havent provided any further 
information. 
I was sorry to hear that Mrs F has recently had some health issues but Im satisfied that both 
Mr and Mrs F were given sufficient time to provide this information. And in the absence of 
such information, Ive reached my provisional decision based on the information I already 
have.
I dont have a recording for the call Mr and Mrs F said they made prior to their departure 
date. So, I cant reasonably conclude that Barclays gave incorrect information.
Barclays have provided the recording of the call that took place on 9 October 2020 when 
Barclays called to discuss Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive listened to this call and I can hear 
that the complaint handler said she couldnt find the call where Mrs F was told shed be 
covered but then went on to say that she was sorry Mrs F was told that and that obviously 
that is our error. So, the adviser gave Mrs F the impression that she was in agreement there 
had been an error on Barclays part during the call. 
The complaint handler concluded that she felt Barclays made an error but the fact that 
Mr and Mrs F couldnt claim was nothing to do with Barclays as thats down to their insurer. 
She said shed feed back to the adviser who provided the incorrect advice but she wouldnt 
offer any compensation as none of Barclays advisers were trained to deal with claims.
Based on the above, I can understand why Mr and Mrs F feel that Barclays have provided 
incorrect information. Its clear from this call that Barclays accepted they made an error when 
they spoke to Mrs F on 9 October 2020. What isnt very clear is why Barclays concluded 
they had made an error when they hadnt been able to locate the relevant call, so they 
couldnt know what was discussed.
I think its most likely Barclays decided to simply take Mr and Mrs Fs word for it, but I dont 
think they made that clear to Mr and Mrs F. And I think this resulted in Mr and Mrs F being 
left with the impression they were misadvised but wouldnt be compensated for that. This 
caused further distress as they didnt think Barclays took any action to fix the error they 
admitted they had made.
For the above reasons, I think Mr and Mrs F suffered some distress and loss of expectation 
which I think Barclays should compensate them for. So, I think Barclays should pay them 
£100 compensation.
Barclays responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs F did not 
respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclays accepted my provisional decision and Mr and Mrs F didnt make any further 
representations about the outcome of this complaint, theres no reason for me to reach a 
different conclusion to that which I reached in my provisional decision.Im upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I remain satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to pay them £100 compensation.
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays to pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman