DRN-4372149
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr M approached TPWM in March 2019 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr M 
was looking to semi retire from age 60 before taking full retirement at 67. He
also wanted to access the tax-free lump sum from his pension for home improvements and 
to buy a campervan.
TPWM completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. TPWM also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be cautious. 
On 26 March 2019, TPWM advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were the need for 
flexible income and so his wife could inherit any residual funds on his death.
Mr M complained in 2023 to TPWM about the suitability of the transfer advice because he 
felt he had been incorrectly advised and his pension had suffered losses.
TPWM didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the advice had been suitable and met his 
needs at the time.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
TPWM to pay compensation. The investigator explained the advice to transfer likely meant 
Mr M would be worse off in retirement. And he didnt think TPWM had demonstrated there 
was a compelling reason to transfer regardless.
TPWM responded to say it was attempting to provide a loss calculation but that didnt mean 
it had accepted wrongdoing. 
The investigator explained we wouldnt necessarily wait for it to complete the loss calculation 
and the case would go into a queue awaiting a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TPWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TPWM 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
TPWM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The business calculated a transfer value comparator (TVC) of £1,111,026. This was required
by the regulator on transfers after 1 October 2018 - and is a measure of the funds that would
need to be invested at the time of transfer on a so-called 'risk-free' basis (government
bonds), to provide the same income as the DB scheme at normal retirement age.
This can be compared with the actual transfer value quoted by the scheme of £518,734. The
difference between the two represents the amount of additional growth Mr M would
have needed to achieve by taking on investment risk if intending to draw benefits at the
scheme's normal retirement age.Mr M was 55 at the time of the advice and self-employed. He was planning to semi-retire 
(reducing the amount of work taken on) at 60 but felt he would continue working, as he 
enjoyed the work, until 67 when his state pension would kick in. The normal retirement age 
of his DB pension was age 65. The critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 65 
was 11.34% if he took a full pension and 9.15% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.8% per year for 10 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr M 
giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
9.15%, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as TPWM 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr M required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence 
Ive seen Mr Ms needs in retirement wouldve been met by the DB scheme. Mr M had said 
he would like some cash for home improvements and a campervan but I dont think this 
shouldve been prioritised ahead of his needs in retirement. And neither did TPWM as they 
recommended that he didnt make an early tax-free cash withdrawal. 
TPWM said that the personal pension allowed Mr M to vary his income, but I dont think it 
provided any compelling reasons as to why this would be useful to Mr M and at the expense 
of his guaranteed benefits in retirement. And with the likelihood of overall being worse off in 
retirement.
Im satisfied Mr M could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB scheme at 
age 60 and 65. Mr M estimated that he needed £16,000 per year in retirement according to 
the information gathered by TPWM. And under the DB scheme, Mr M was entitled to an 
annual income of £29,581 per annum from the scheme at 65 or £19,217 per annum 
alongside a lump sum of £128,000. TPWM said he didnt require this level of income, so it 
had discounted this as an option. But I dont think Mr M wouldve actively opted to be worse 
off in retirement just because his income would be in excess of his minimum needs.
TPWM said that Mr M could take his benefits at 55, and receive income at the same level as 
the scheme (based on the benefit level at 55 and not 65) and his fund wouldnt be depleted 
until he was 97 if tax free cash is taken on both. However, this relied on growth at 5% per 
year for many years and I dont think is realistic given the discount rates, regulators 
projections and Mr Ms attitude to risk. TPWM will be aware past performance is no 
guarantee for future performance and so I find the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time. Furthermore, Mr M 
wasnt looking to take income at age 55 in any event.In terms of Mr Ms needs or perceived needs for cash for home improvement and a camper-
van  TPWMs recommendation wasnt made for these reasons. They said that he should 
investigate other ways of financing this expenditure. And it noted Mr M looked to have the 
disposable income to achieve this through finance or a small mortgage.
It is difficult to understand having come to that conclusion, that it still recommended Mr M 
transfer his benefits at 55 when all indicators pointed to him likely being worse off in 
retirement in doing so.
TPWM did very little to consider and discuss what benefits Mr M could receive comparatively 
at age 60 which is when Mr M was considering semi-retirement. Nor did it set out to Mr M 
whether he could achieve his objectives in retirement whilst retaining his benefits in the DB 
scheme until age 65. Which would put Mr M in likely the best financial position possible. 
Staying in the scheme wouldve allowed him to retain his guaranteed benefits  providing 
utmost security in retirement and sums likely well in excess of what was likely achievable 
outside of this arrangement. I think this wouldve appealed to Mr M given his cautious 
attitude to risk and his self-employed status which allowed him flexibility in how much he 
worked.
This was by far Mr M and his wifes most valuable source of income in retirement. 
Furthermore, Mr M and his wifes joint income exceeded their outgoings and Mr Ms wife 
intended to work beyond his potential semi-retirement at age 60. In terms of income, Mr M 
said he could earn more if needed, Mr Ms wife expected to have a steady income until Mr M 
was at least aged 63 and she also had pensions she could begin to access if required at that 
point.
So Mr M and his wife had quite a bit of flexibility and options available to them outside of Mr 
Ms DB scheme. This brings into the question the recommendation to transfer based in part 
on being able to vary his income in a personal pension. It seems likely they couldve met 
their income needs up to Mr Ms normal retirement age in the scheme at age 65. And even if 
Mr M took his benefits earlier from the scheme their income would likely far outweigh their 
outgoings, so being able to vary his income seems a fairly irrelevant benefit. Mr M was also 
set to receive quite a substantial amount of tax-free cash from the scheme, which could 
finance any big purchases/holidays in retirement.
TPWM didnt believe Mr M had a need for the tax-free cash and he wasnt looking to
retire for at least another five years, so recommending a transfer doesnt seem to have been 
in his best interests.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think TPWM explored to what extent 
Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr M predeceased her. I dont think TPWM made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
any event, TPWM should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility of income, control and potential for higher death benefits on 
offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But 
TPWM wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think TPWM shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against TPWM's 
advice.  Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against TPWMs advice. I say this because Mr M was an 
inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mr Ms retirement provision. So, if TPWM had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think TPWM should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
TPWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, TPWM should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts TPWMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, TPWM may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Simon HollingsheadOmbudsman