DRN-3746537
Complaint
Mrs C has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says that the loan was irresponsibly lent.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mrs C with a loan for £3,500.00 in April 2015. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £267.42. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs C and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs C unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mrs Cs complaint be upheld. Mrs C disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Cs complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs C could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Mrs C with a loan for £3,500.00 in April 2015. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 instalments of just under £270. 118 118 Money says it agreed to Mrs Cs 
application after she provided details of her monthly income and some information on her 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
and all of this information showed Mrs C could to comfortably make the repayments she was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mrs C has said she was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs C and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided the output of Mrs Cs 
application. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Mrs C didnt really have much of a 
credit history. There had been a couple of minor issues with Mrs Cs existing commitments. 
But crucially, according to the credit searches, Mrs Cs debt total at the time of the 
applications was reasonable in comparison to her income and she was going to use this loan 
to consolidate some of her existing debts. 
I accept that Mrs Cs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. Equally I accept that if 
118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Mrs C appears to be saying it should 
have  such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it 
may have reached a different answer, although weve not been provided with this 
information. 
But the key here is that 118 118 Money wasnt providing Mrs C with a mortgage. It was 
providing a loan for a relatively small sum. Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances 
here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have extended further  especially where we havent been provided with 
anything which demonstrates the loan was obviously unaffordable either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mrs C - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mrs C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman