DRN-3127828
The complaint
Mr D complains about the length of time he was on hold when calling Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. Hes also unhappy about their handling of his complaint. 
What happened
Mr D sold an item for significant value and then checked his account and could see the 
funds had transferred into his account. However, he says over the course of the next couple 
of hours, the funds would appear then disappear from his account. So, he called Barclays 
Banks fraud team to find out what was happening. Mr D says he was on hold for over three 
hours and eventually hung up. The funds were received into Mr Ds account but he remained 
concerned about the length of time he had to wait on the call, so he raised a complaint the 
following day. 
Barclays Bank explained, due to the pandemic, they had experienced higher call volumes 
following branch closures and some branches not currently open. Barclays Bank apologised 
and then closed the complaint. Mr D says the complaint was closed without Barclays Bank 
taking any accountability so he referred his complaint to our service.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. She thought Barclays Bank hadnt made an 
error and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think it would be frustrating for any customer to be on hold for over three hours. And, in    
Mr Ds case, I think it will have been particularly frustrating given that he wanted reassurance 
from Barclays Bank that the funds had arrived into his account. But, for me to uphold the 
complaint, I need to find that Barclays Bank have made an error here. 
Barclays Bank say they were under higher pressure of calls due to the pandemic and it was 
taking longer for customers to speak to someone. They say they can appreciate Mr Ds 
concern around the delay but unfortunately this was out of their control at that time as they 
were trying to answer calls as fast as they could professionally and effectively. Most, if not 
all, businesses were affected during the pandemic and resulting national lockdown. This led 
to a number of businesses having to implement new ways of working and also with 
potentially less resources. Unfortunately, and unavoidably, this led to longer waiting times for 
customers wanting to speak with their bank. 
I can see Barclays Bank did explain to Mr D that the situation meant longer waiting times 
and they apologised. While I do fully understand why Mr D was anxious to speak with 
Barclays Bank, I cant say they have made an error here. Barclays Bank wont have any 
control over the number of queries they receive on a particular day. So, given the reduction 
in resources through branch closures, it does mean phone lines will be busier than usual, 
and there might be occasions where a customer has to wait longer on some days.          
I acknowledge Mr Ds point that the fraud line is a 24-hour service and he could well have 
ended up waiting on hold for significantly longer had he not decided to hang up the call. I do 
understand Mr Ds point here and his frustration at the time, but Barclays Bank say they 
were experiencing higher call volumes at the time  and I do believe this to be the case 
given the impact of the pandemic with businesses having to close their offices. This meant 
that many customers, who might ordinarily have gone into a branch, were now calling their 
bank. So, even though Barclays Bank were operating a 24-hour service, the phone line was 
clearly very busy at the time Mr D called. I note Mr D says, while on hold, he had no way of 
knowing where he was in the queue. We dont have the power to tell a business to change 
their processes and it might well be a commercial decision taken by Barclays Bank to not 
have this on their phone line. I can however see Barclays Bank say they have taken on 
board feedback from Mr Ds complaint. 
I understand Mr D is unhappy about Barclays Banks handling of his complaint. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the 
law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into 
things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take 
into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this 
case, I cant say the issues which Mr D raises about the complaints handling are an 
extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint 
handling part of the complaint
I note Mr D has strong feelings about his complaint and I certainly dont underestimate how 
frustrating it will be to wait on hold for over three hours when a customer wants reassurance 
about a payment. But, given the circumstances at the time, I cant say Barclays Bank have 
made an error. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman