DRN-2538132
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not allow it immediate access to 
its money and that it had to pay a CHAPS fee.
What happened
L received a payment into its account of £500,000 on 25 February 2020. It is unhappy that a 
director had to visit a branch to make an onward transfer and was charged £30 to do so. And 
that L was not allowed to take all this money out in cash and was told it would take five 
weeks for it be able to do that. L says that Lloyds forced it to make a CHAPS payment and 
that the fee was not reasonable if there was no alternative. L says this was an abuse of 
Lloyds market power and it wants compensation for loss of business.
Lloyds said it had not made a mistake. It has set limits for transfers online or using mobile 
banking. And as a security measure it needed to make additional checks for a transfer of this 
amount. A branch would not hold that amount of money in cash. The CHAPS fee was a 
standard one and it had decided to waive this as a gesture of goodwill. But it would not be 
doing anymore.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Lloyds had followed its 
process and we dont have a role in saying what its security measures should be.
L wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint as it did not think that it had been 
understood. It maintained that it had been told that it would take five weeks before it could 
take out the money in cash. And that if Lloyds had failed to note this then it was another 
complaint point. It was entitled to its money on demand and without charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the comments from L, Lloyds asked the managers in the branch involved to 
clarify what was said about how long it would be to obtain this amount in cash. It said that at 
no time did they say that arranging for the amount in cash would take longer than a week.
I dont have any other evidence about this to help fairly resolve that dispute. I dont rule out a 
misunderstanding having developed. But the key point was that L wanted the money 
straightaway and as Lloyds has explained it just does not hold that amount of cash in a 
branch.
We provide informal dispute resolution and are not the regulator. So as the investigator said, 
we dont review specific security processes or how Lloyds sets its prices. I dont doubt it was 
inconvenient for the director to have to visit a branch, but I cant find that came from any 
error by Lloyds. Here it refunded the charge and I dont have a reasonable basis to make an 
award for the time of the director at his professional rates for L as he wants.
I have considered all the points raised by L as part of this complaint and Im afraid I dont find 
that Lloyds made a mistake or should take any further action. I know this will remain 
frustrating for the director of L.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman