DRN-1787186
The complaint
Mr B complains National Savings and Investments allowed his ex-partner to access his 
account and transfer funds out if it.  He also complains it should have done more to alert him 
to this fraudulent access.
What happened
Mr B opened a Premium Bond account in July 2015.  During that process, he confirmed his 
mobile number, email address and nominated bank account.  The bank account was held 
with N.
During the next few years, a number of payments were made into the account as well as a 
large number out of the account.  During this time, new contact details were also added, and 
passwords reset.
In May 2019, Mr B contacted NS&I to say his ex-partner had changed all the passwords on 
the account and he was unable to log in.  The account was reset to allow Mr B access  and 
he then subsequently complained about the disputed transactions.
In its final response to Mr B in July 2019, NS&I did not uphold his complaint.  In summary, it 
said the following:
-all transfers were made into Mr Bs nominated bank account with N:
-Mr B had acknowledged he was aware of two transactions - £15,000 in September 
2016 and £3000 in November 2018;
-all other access to the account was made possible because the person accessing 
knew the security information;
-it was going to hold Mr B liable for the money taken from his account because the 
terms and conditions of the account were clear that he must not share this security 
information with another.
So, Mr B brought his complaint to this service.  He told us the following:
-he had reported his ex-partner to the police as she had accessed his accounts and 
stolen money from him.  That investigation was on going;
-he suffered with some health issues and this whole incident had taken its toll on him;
-NS&I should have alerted him to the funds leaving his account and he wanted to be 
reimbursed.
-
Our investigator didnt think he could ask NS&I to do anymore for Mr B.  He (the investigator) 
acknowledged Mr B may not have authorised the transactions but he thought he had failed 
to comply with the terms and conditions of his account by sharing his security details with his 
ex-partner.  Mr B had admitted to NS&I that she (the ex-partner) had always dealt with his 
account and with NS&I.  He now said that was a mistake and he didnt mean it.
Our investigator also reminded Mr B that the money which had been transferred to N had 
been refunded by N.  Mr B had, essentially, been put back in the position he would have 
been in had the fraud not occurred.
Mr B did not agree with the investigator.  He said he didnt think all the money had been 
returned by N.  He also said it was unacceptable that NS&Is systems allowed a third party to 
use his account without any alerts being sent out to him.  He said the criminal prosecution 
was evidence he was a victim of fraud and identity theft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what I have seen, I will not be asking NS&I to do anymore. 
The regulations relevant to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009. Generally 
speaking, NS&I must refund disputed transactions unless the evidence shows Mr B either 
authorised the transactions himself or failed to comply with his obligations under the PSRs. 
Amongst other things, the PSRs say account holders must take all reasonable steps to keep 
their security information  like passwords or PINs  safe. 
I dont think Mr B authorised these transactions for very much the same reasons as the 
investigator  but I do think he failed, with intent, to comply with his obligations under the 
PSRs and the terms and conditions of his account.
Ive listened to the calls which Mr B has had with NS&I  in particular, the one where he 
reports his ex-partner having carried out these transactions.  He tells the advisor that she 
had been doing all his banking.  He also tells the adviser that he had never dealt with NS&I 
before  his ex-partner had.
So, whilst I appreciate Mr B has reported his ex-partner to the police and there is a 
prosecution pending, I cannot see that NS&I has done anything wrong here.
I also note that all transfers had been made into Mr Bs account with N  and that N has 
refunded a substantial amount.  Mr B says that it hasnt refunded the full amount and that he 
is still out of pocket.  I'm sorry to hear that is the situation  but for the reasons Ive given 
about Mr B failing to comply with the PSRs and with the terms and conditions of his account, 
I wont be asking NS&I to refund any money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman