DRN-1129482
Complaint
Mr O says MYJAR Limited (trading as MyJar) irresponsibly lent to him.          
Background
This complaint is about fifteen instalment loans that MyJar provided to Mr O between August 
2015 and October 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Os complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loan 6 and loans 8 to 15. MyJar disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MyJar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MyJar should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of MyJars lending history with Mr O, I think that MyJar should 
reasonably have seen that Mr O was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner by the respective times it provided Mr O with loans 6 and 8. I say this because by the time of loan 6 Mr O was exhibiting a borrowing pattern of taking out 
further loans not too long after repaying previous ones. As our adjudicator pointed out there 
was a break in borrowing between loan 6 being repaid and loan 7 being taken. But 
proportionate checks for loan 8 would more likely than not have shown that Mr O had a 
significant amount of outstanding short-term credit with other providers. And by the time of 
loan 12 Mr O was once again displaying a pattern of borrowing consistent with someone 
who may have been in financial difficulty rather than to cover a short term need.
MyJar continued lending to Mr O even when this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr O had to pay interest and charges on loans that MyJar shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and MyJar should put things right.
Putting things right  what MyJar needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr O paid on loan 6 and loans 8 to 14;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove all interest and charges applied to loan 15. The payments Mr O made should 
then be deducted from the new starting balance. In other words, Mr O should pay 
back no more than the £2,225 he was originally lent. Once all adjustments have been 
made, MyJar can deduct the remaining balance from the compensation it now needs 
to pay Mr O; 
 
any adverse information about loan 6 and loans 8 to 11 should be removed from       
Mr Os credit file. The number of loans provided means that any information recorded 
about loans 12 to 15 is adverse. So all reference to these loans should be removed 
from Mr Os credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MyJar to take off tax from this interest. MyJar must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Os complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should pay Mr O compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman