DRN-3154921
Complaint
Miss V has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly continued applying 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
that Miss Vs overdraft had become unsustainable for her by January 2017 and so it 
shouldnt have added the charges it did from this point onwards. HSBC didnt accept our 
adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this provisional 
decision.
Having considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it continued 
adding interest and associated fees and charges to Miss Vs account from January 2017. By 
this point, it was evident that Miss V was regularly going into an unarranged overdraft and I 
can also see that she was borrowing from a number of different payday lenders in order to 
make ends meet.
I know that HSBC sent Miss V letters and told her about its financial difficulties team. But this 
doesnt change the fact that the way the account was being run clearly showed Miss V was 
struggling. Furthermore, Id point out that she also told HSBC this was the case on more 
than one occasion. 
So overall I think that by January 2017, I think HSBC ought to have realised that Miss V was 
struggling financially and, in these circumstances, it should have instead treated Miss V with 
forbearance. As HSBC didnt react to Miss Vs account usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss V ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was 
already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Miss V lost out because of what HSBC did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss V
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Vs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Vs current account balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Miss V to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Vs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from January 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss V along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Vs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss V a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Vs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman