DRN-2856513
The complaint
Mr B1 and Mr B2 complain that Santander UK Plc, (Santander), trading as Abbey 
National, mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr B1 and Mr B2 took out a joint mortgage with Santander in 2003. They also took out a 
MPPI policy in the same year. The policy was joint, and the benefit was split 50:50 
between them.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr B1 and Mr B2 
didnt agree with this view, so it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B1 and Mr B2s 
case.
Because the sale was so long ago, Santander no longer has any of the paperwork signed 
by Mr B1 and Mr B2. And it is not required to keep papers for this length of time. So, Ive 
had to make my decision based on the information that I do have and what we know 
generally about the sale of MPPI policies and, in particular, those sold by Santander. And 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, (as some of it is here), Ive 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. Im satisfied 
that these approaches are a fair and reasonable way of reaching my decision.
Ive decided that the MPPI wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below:
Mr B1 and Mr B2 say that they were led to believe that they had to have the MPPI to get 
the mortgage they wanted. But they are trying to recall matters that took place some 18 
years ago. And I dont think that its fair and reasonable to rely solely on what they 
remember. Santander has told us that the policy was sold over the phone. Because of the 
time that has passed it no longer has a record of what it said to Mr B1 and Mr B2. However, 
from what we know generally about MPPI telephone sales by Santander, trading as Abbey 
National, at that time, we know that the script the representative was supposed to follow 
would have made it clear that the policy was optional. And in the absence of any more 
persuasive evidence, I dont consider that Ive anything on which to conclude that the 
representative didnt follow the script. So, on balance, I find that Mr B1 and Mr B2 knew 
that the policy was optional and that they choose to take it.
My above finding is reinforced because Santanders records show that the policy started a 
few months after the mortgage. Which means that Mr B1 and Mr B2 already had their loan 
when they took out the MPPI. So I cant see how they could have concluded that they had to 
have the insurance. Because the sale was so long ago I can understand why Mr B1 and 
Mr B2 can no longer remember this. 
Santander recommended that Mr B1 and Mr B2 took out the policy. This means that it 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that the MPPI was suitable for them. Because 
of the time that has passed, I dont know what steps Santander actually took. But, in any 
event, I find that the policy was suitable. I say this taking into account what I know about 
Mr B1 and Mr B2s circumstances and by reference to the terms and conditions of the 
policy, because:
Mr B1 and Mr B2 were both eligible for the policy;
Neither Mr B1 nor Mr B2 were adversely affected by any of the policys main 
restrictions and limitations  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing 
medical condition;
Mr B1 and Mr B2 have told us that they were each entitled to six months full sick 
pay and six months half pay. But, following a successful claim for accident, sickness 
or involuntary unemployment, the MPPI would have paid out over £450 a month, had 
they both not been working. (And would have paid out half the amount had only one 
of them been off work.) These payments would have been made for up to 12 
months. And would have been paid in addition to any sick pay, leaving that available 
to help with meeting their other expenses while one or more of them werent 
working. So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to Mr B1 and Mr B2;
The cost of the policy was initially about £40 a month and was competitively priced 
by reference to other similar policies available in the market at the time. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the premiums were unaffordable for Mr B1 
and Mr B2. In any event, had they later felt that they couldnt afford the policy, as it 
was paid for monthly they could have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
Mr B1 and Mr B2 were earning very similar amounts at the time of the sale. This 
means that I find that it was not unreasonable for the policy benefit to be split 50:50 
between them.
Santander also had to give Mr B1 and Mr B2 clear, fair, and not-misleading information 
about the main features of the MPPI, so that they could decide whether they wanted it or 
not. Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr B1 and Mr B2 wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive found nothing on which to conclude that they didnt choose to 
take the policy and it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. I say this particularly bearing in mind the 
serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr B1 and Mr B2 not been able to make 
their monthly payments on their mortgage, which was secured on their home.
So I conclude that Santander didnt mis-sell the MPPI to Mr B1 and Mr B2. So it doesnt 
have to pay back all the MPPI premiums paid by Mr B1 and Mr B2.
 
But Santander has offered to pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr B1 and Mr B2 
before this complaint was referred to this Service because: Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B1 and Mr B2 about that. Because Santader didnt 
tell Mr B1 and Mr B2, that was unfair;
To put that right, Santander offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B1 and Mr B2 have said - including what they have said 
about having significant savings. But the savings may not have still been available at a time 
Mr B1 or Mr B2 was unable to work. So this and Mr B1 and Mr B2s other points dont affect 
my decision.
My final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr B1 and Mr B2.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr B1 and Mr B2 any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium. And as it has already offered to 
do this in a way that I think is fair, I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman