DRN-3670317
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
Portal processed the transfer of Mr Ns scheme benefits to the personal pension on an 
insistent client basis. Mr N says Portal badly advised him and has caused him a financial 
loss.
What happened
In or around late April 2015, Mr N was approaching his 55th birthday and was employed on a 
zero hours contract with an agency earning between £15,000 and £16,000 a year. Mr N was 
also in receipt of benefits in the form of jobseekers allowance at £72 per week. Mr N wasnt 
intending to retire for the foreseeable future, had no savings or investments and lived in a 
property worth £185,000 subject to a repayment mortgage with an outstanding balance of 
£125,000 costing £700. His only retirement provision (other than his state pension) was his 
former employers DB occupational pension scheme which, in 2015 was calculated to give 
him an income at his normal retirement date (NRD) at age 65 of £7,925 per year and a tax-
free lump sum of £52,833. 
Mr N was carrying out an internet search when he located some information about Portal 
where it offered to assist with releasing money from pensions. Mr N was interested as he 
had some personal debt of around £20,000 (costing him between £400-£500 per month) so 
he contacted Portal. He completed a pension review information form in early May 2015 
which he returned to Portal. Portal then obtained details of Mr Ns DB scheme and 
conducted a telephone appointment with him in late June 2015
Portal completed a fact-find during the call to gather information about Mr Ns circumstances 
and objectives. It noted on the fact-find that Mr Ns objectives were to take maximum tax-free 
cash (TFC) in order to reduce his debts and make some home improvements. No other 
objectives were noted.
Portal noted that it had discussed with Mr N the loss his guaranteed DB scheme benefits 
along with the critical yield his personal pension would need to achieve to match the benefits 
he was giving up. Portal also carried out an assessment of Mr Ns attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be balanced. 
Portal sent a letter to Mr N two days later on 26 June 2015 in which it said Mr Ns pension 
had a transfer value of £145,796 from which he could release a total of £36,449 as tax free 
cash (TFC) but as the critical yield was 12.6% it strongly recommended that he didnt 
transfer his DB pension scheme because of the guaranteed benefits he would be giving up. 
The letter immediately went on to say that if he did still want to effect the transfer then it 
could help him do so that but it would need to treat him as an insistent client. The letter 
included an options form and asked Mr N to tick the box on the form that was right for him. 
Mr N signed the form the following day and ticked the box that to say he was taking the TFC, 
investing the rest and was being treated as an insistent client. He then went on to tick a 
further box acknowledging the critical yield for the new plan was going to be 12.6%, that his 
new plan was unlikely to achieve such growth and that he understood that he was giving up 
a guaranteed (full) pension £11,447 at his NRD. Finally Mr N ticked another box to 
acknowledge he was transferring his DB scheme against Portals advice and that he would 
be worse off in retirement. 
Portal sent Mr N its suitability report on 7 July 2015 together with a covering letter. The 
covering letter said it was pleased to enclose a copy of Mr Ns suitability report which 
included Portals recommendation. It went on to say that if Mr N followed the 
recommendation he would transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension plan with 
M, that he would receive TFC of £36,449. The letter also went on to say that Portal believed 
the recommendation it made was suitable for his situation and, if he decided to follow it, he 
should sign the enclosed forms. 
The suitability report said Portal had already recommended to Mr N that he didnt transfer his 
DB scheme so was now treating him as an insistent client. It went on to say that it was 
recommending Mr N transfer his DB scheme to a flexi-access income drawdown personal 
pension investing in Ms managed wealth portfolio. 
Mr N signed the transfer forms on 8 July 2015 and the transfer took place in late August 
2015. 
Mr N complained to Portal in June 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
Portal had conducted an inadequate fact-find which failed to discover highly relevant 
information about his actual circumstances. He also said Portal had failed to analyse the 
suitability of the transfer for him or provide him with clear and understandable advice. Finally 
he said that the investments his pension had been placed in were unsuitable and had 
performed poorly since the transfer so that it fell well below Portals projections and meant 
he was now entitled to significantly lower benefits than if he had remained in his DB scheme. 
Mr N said he wanted compensation to put him in the position he would have been in had he 
received suitable advice from Portal. 
Portal looked into Mr Ns complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
clearly communicated to Mr N on numerous occasions that it wasnt in his best interests to 
proceed with the transfer but that he had insisted on proceeding regardless. Portal said it 
had conducted a full fact-find with Mr N and had adequately analysed the suitability of the 
transfer including that the personal pension with M was unlikely to achieve the growth rate 
required to match the benefits he was giving up. It said too that it had made him aware of the 
guaranteed benefits he was giving up and provided him with a transfer analysis report 
(TVAS) and a suitability report. Portal said there were no identifiable reasonable objectives 
mentioned because it wasnt in Mr Ns best interests to transfer. 
Mr N referred his complaint to our service in September 2021. Our Investigator looked into 
the complaint and recommended it was upheld. He thought that Mr N couldnt be said to be 
a true insistent client. And he thought that Portal hadnt done enough to make it clear to Mr N 
that failing to match his DB benefits meant, in reality, that the value of his pension would be 
much lower when he did retire. Nor did it do enough to make sure Mr N understood the exact 
nature of the risk he was exposing himself to by transferring. Our Investigator also thought 
that Portal hadnt made it sufficiently clear to Mr N that by transferring, he was acting against 
its advice nor had it sufficiently explored with him other means to achieve his objectives. Our 
Investigator recommended that Portal pay compensation to Mr N. 
Portal didnt respond to our so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portals actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr N as an insistent client. An insistent 
client is one that wishes to take a different course of action from that being recommended 
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice. 
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the 
regulators Handbook which required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required Portal to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Portals recommendation had to be 
clear and Mr N had to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Portal says that it provided suitable advice and acted in Mr Ns best interests. It says that it 
followed the correct insistent client process. Mr N says Portals advice was negligent and 
hes suffered a loss as a result.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses 
and failings in Portals advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mr Ns best interests. And 
I think Mr N likely understood, or believed overall, that Portal was recommending he should 
go ahead with the transfer.I say this because on 26 June 2015 following the telephone discussion Portal had on 
24 June 2015 with Mr N about his pension options, it sent him what I think can only be 
described as a brief letter with the outcome of its advice. It said that because of the growth 
rate (12.6%) required to match Mr Ns guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, and 
because hed be giving up those guaranteed benefits, it recommended he should not 
transfer away from his DB scheme to access a tax-free cash lump sum. But I dont think this 
letter clearly set out the risks associated with the transfer.
Immediately underneath the letters brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr N should 
not transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by 
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. No explanation of what insistent 
client actually means was provided. And while Portal said proceeding on this basis would be 
against its recommendation, it enclosed the necessary forms Mr N needed to complete and 
return to pursue this option. And option 1 he was presented with was to go against Portals 
advice  the second option was to do nothing as per its recommendation. It strikes me that 
Portals process here was geared towards facilitating the transfer.
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the 
transfer was not in Mr Ns best interests. But the information on the form enclosed with the 
letter, which Portal asked Mr N to complete and return, was limited to the loss of guarantees 
and the growth required to match his existing benefits. While Portal later sent a more 
detailed suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mr N had little information 
to go off to decide if being an insistent client was truly in his best interests.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr Ns 
best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis 
on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr Ns best interests, it also wouldnt have told him 
at the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit briefly - how he could put it aside 
and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr N could ignore 
Portals recommendation was unfair to him; it didnt include an explanation of the risks of 
proceeding on this basis and wasnt in his best interests.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr N had little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example 
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find to suggests Mr N was an 
experienced investor  in fact it appears he was completely inexperienced. Im mindful too 
that Portal assessed Mr Ns attitude to risk as being balanced. This process involved Mr N 
giving answers to a series of questions  the answers to several of which indicated he was 
quite averse to taking financial risk. 
I think this shouldve put Portal on notice that it had to be very careful if it was to take Mr N 
through the insistent client route.
I can see that Mr Ns insistent client forms included a section where he put in his own words 
why he wanted to access his pension fund early. However, I dont think Mr Ns response 
adequately demonstrates that he knew and understood the risks involved and the 
recommendation he was agreeing to. I say this not only because the majority of the form 
was pre-completed and Mr N simply had to tick a box to say that he understood what he was 
giving up by transferring, but also because the reasons he gave in his own words were 
related to his financial circumstances and difficulties  there is nothing in what Mr N wrote to 
indicate he understood the risks involved in accessing his pension and the recommendation 
he was agreeing to. And crucially, as I indicated earlier on, Mr N hadnt yet received Portals full suitability report 
and had time to read and digest it before having to decide if he wanted to go ahead anyway. 
So Im not persuaded Mr N was able to make an informed choice here. And I dont think this 
document alone sufficiently showed Mr N was an insistent client.
It was only after receiving Mr Ns confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer 
that Portal sent him its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation 
not to transfer out of the DB scheme, it was followed by a positive recommendation, 
advising Mr N to transfer his benefits to facilitate access to his tax-free cash. And this was 
all set out under a heading titled Our Recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr N 
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the 
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr N advice on the advice to transfer, 
and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the full suitability report after 
securing his confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
By recommending that Mr N transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, I think this 
undermined the recommendation not to transfer; and I think Mr N couldve believed Portal 
supported the transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that transferring out of the 
DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Ns best interests, it needed to 
ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable for him. In 
my view it shouldnt have separated out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of 
the full suitability report Mr N could have believed Portal was recommending he transfer out 
of the DB scheme, and that it was reasonable for him to do so.
One of the two objectives Mr N cited for wanting to access his pension early was to enable 
him to generate a lump sum which he could use to clear his debts. There was little 
information captured by Portal on the fact-find about the loans. The only details relate to the 
loan balance which is recorded as being £20,000 and the monthly payments which are 
documented as being between £400-£500. There is no information on the type of loan, the 
name of the lender or the outstanding term. Nor is there any information about Mr Ns wifes 
financial circumstances beyond the fact she had an annual income of £22,000 but that is the 
only information Portal recorded. And there is only a very limited amount of information 
recorded about Mr Ns monthly expenditure  no such expenditure is recorded for Mrs N. So 
I cant verify, because Portal hasnt documented what their actual joint income and 
expenditure was each month, whether there really was no joint disposable income left over 
at all or whether only Mr N had no disposable income left over.
So whilst it is clear to me that Mr Ns loan repayments were likely a substantial portion of his 
net income it appears he was managing to afford them each month. There is no information 
about why the loans needed to be repaid early. In the suitability report Portal said that it had 
talked with Mr N about other ways of raising money instead of taking the TFC. It notes that 
he didnt want to take on any further lending or pay interest and that he didnt have enough 
disposable income to service his needs. 
Portal also said in the suitability report: if a spouse or other family member has the potential 
to provide financial support you have more scope to cope with investment losses. The 
implication here being that Mr N could afford to take on the risk associated with the personal 
pension. If Portal thought such scope existed however, then it is unclear to me why it didnt 
give full and proper consideration to Mrs Ns income when advising Mr N on the transfer. 
Mr N was managing enough work each year to just about cover all his expenses (mortgage, 
loans, life cover etc). His wife however was earning more than he was and, according to the fact-find in any event, had no outgoings. So I cant reasonably accept that Mr N had no 
option but to transfer his pension, take the TFC and clear his debt. It appears there was 
possibly some disposable income that could have allowed his debts to be restructured so 
they were more affordable to him thereby negating the requirement to transfer his pension 
and lose his valuable retirement benefits. 
Whilst Mr N might very well on the face of it not wanted to take on any more debt, it was 
Portals duty to fully interrogate that assertion, explain the other options open to him and 
demonstrate that paying interest on a loan was financially better than taking money out of a 
guaranteed pension plan and reducing the benefits available to him in retirement. Portal 
should not merely have accepted his viewpoint without challenge. So whilst Portal claims to 
have considered alternative ways for Mr N to meet his needs it seems to me it overlooked 
what I consider to be an obvious and easy solution which was to explore whether his wifes 
income could be used to help. And I cant see that Portal assessed what income Mr N would 
need in retirement or how hed fund it if he transferred out. In my view, that was a key failing.
And I cant agree that advising Mr N to transfer his guaranteed pension benefits in order to 
access TFC so he could undertake home improvements was in his best interests. Im sure 
that being able to make home improvements would have seemed attractive to Mr N (and I 
understand that he did indeed use £22,000 of the TFC for an extension of his house) but I 
cannot agree that it was suitable to advise Mr N to transfer his DB scheme in order to access 
TFC and for which there potentially existed other means, unexplored by Portal, to raise it. 
I know that Portal stated in the suitability report that Mr N didnt want to take on any more 
lending but it doesnt seem to me that it explored the possibility of restructuring Mr Ns 
personal debts, perhaps to take any repayment terms out a bit, or by re-mortgaging, so he 
could borrow a little bit more if the home improvements were a significant priority for him. 
Doing so would also potentially have lowered his monthly outgoings. But Ive seen no 
evidence such alternatives were explored with Mr N. And whilst the home extension was no 
doubt a nice to have I dont think it can be said to be time critical such that the TFC had to 
be taken right away so it could be done. There is no evidence that it was. It could well have 
been the case that Mr N could have waited to receive the tax-free pension commencement 
lump sum from his DB scheme before undertaking the extension. 
I acknowledge there were no specific insistent client rules at the time. But I consider the 
regulatory rules and guidance that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client and to 
provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Portals recommendation had 
to be clear and Mr N had to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation. By not explaining the risks to Mr N of his supposed preferred course of 
action, and by not seeking to properly understand Mr Ns objectives, financial circumstances 
and what he was really trying to achieve before carrying things out, Im not persuaded Portal 
can be said to have been acting in his best interests.
Ultimately I dont think Mr N was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me that 
he most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed it seemed like a good idea and 
this was the only way to meet his objectives. Portal failed to properly understand Mr Ns 
overall position and overlooked or ignored his wifes income and whether it could provide a 
solution to his needs as I described above. Furthermore, I think the way Portal presented its 
recommendation to Mr N couldve led him to believe it was giving him a positive 
recommendation to transfer out of the scheme. And I think this wouldve given Mr N the 
impression that Portal agreed with his approach.Portal recommended that Mr N invest in a managed wealth portfolio. Mr N says his personal 
pension has since performed poorly. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that 
Mr N would not have transferred out of his DB scheme if Portal had followed a fair process, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of his investments. This is because Mr N 
would have remained in the DB scheme and so the investments in the personal pension 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Overall, and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr N can truly be regarded as an insistent 
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy for Mr N to agree that he was an insistent 
client. Portals overall communication with Mr N wasnt clear or fair and it didnt act in Mr Ds 
best interests by providing information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
I now need to consider if Portal had followed the insistent client process correctly, whether 
Mr N wouldve still gone ahead. If Portal had acted in Mr Ns best interests by providing a 
recommendation on the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, by 
fully exploring alternative means of achieving his objectives and by addressing Mr Ns true 
objectives at the time, I dont think he wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer. As 
Ive outlined above, I dont consider Mr N to be an experienced investor who possessed the 
requisite knowledge, skill or had the confidence to go against the advice and 
recommendation he was given. I think he relied solely on the advice and process Portal 
employed.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account, I dont think it 
likely Mr N would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr N for its failings using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr N whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.Mr N didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt 
want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr N.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr N, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr N would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr N has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ns acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ns 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ns SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ns pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr N within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr N.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
to Portal Financial Services LLP pay Mr N any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr N any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr N the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr N.
If Mr N accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr N can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman