DRN-3020400
The complaint
Mr H complains that certain underwriters at the Society of Lloyds (the underwriters) have 
unfairly withdrawn cover for his legal expenses insurance claim and voided his policy.
  
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat 
everything in detail again here. In summary, Mr H holds an after the event legal expenses 
insurance policy, which he took out in connection with a legal claim he made against the 
NHS for medical negligence. The policy was taken out by his solicitors (whom Ill refer to as 
Firm I), for it to run alongside a conditional fee arrangement Mr H had entered into with 
them in December 2016.
The underwriters subsequently withdrew cover, however, citing a breach of terms as a result 
of information regarding Mr Hs benefits payments that he failed to disclose. The 
underwriters referenced the policy terms and conditions that set out the obligations of the 
policyholder, in particular:
Failure to keep to any of these conditions may lead the insurer to cancel your policy, 
and withdraw from your claim. The insurer also reserves the right to recover from you 
any payments it has made under the policy should this happen.
1. Your responsibilities
You must:
a) observe and keep to the terms of this policy
b) not do anything that hinders us or the solicitor
c) tell us immediately of anything that may materially alter our assessment of the 
claim 
d) cooperate fully with the solicitor and us, give the solicitor any instructions required 
and keep them updated with the progress of the claim.
The underwriters believed that Mr H had failed to act in accordance with the terms of his 
policy, and said there had also been allegations made by the defendant of fundamental 
dishonesty, which they considered to be inextricably linked to the claim such that they also 
decided to void the policy in line with the following clause:
8. Fraudulent claims
If you make a claim which is fraudulent or false, this policy shall become void and all 
benefit under it will be forfeited.
9. Cancellation
c) the insurer will cancel this policy immediately without any refund of the insurance 
premium, and will reclaim any payments made under this policy, if
(i) you fail without good reason to meet any of your responsibilities under this policy;
d) the insurer may cancel the policy immediately, if:
(iii) we believe your claim is unlikely to be successful.
The underwriters withdrew cover and voided Mr Hs policy for the following reasons:
DWP records were obtained which were considered damaging to Mr Hs credibility 
because there was evidence that he had over claimed benefits and had to repay 
£109.30 to the DWP for the period covering October 2016 to November 2017. The 
underwriters said that if they and the solicitors had been made aware of this, its likely 
the Part 36 Offer would have been accepted in time as the information was likely to 
affect the claims prospects of success.
The DWP overpayment issue was material to Mr Hs legal claim as it affected his 
credibility. This meant that Mr H had to eventually accept the defendants Part 36 
Offer out of time and could not get any higher amount, otherwise the defendant 
would have used this information to their advantage and likely withdrawn the offer 
once the DWP records had been disclosed.
An allegation of fundamental dishonesty had been raised by the defendant to Mr Hs 
legal action, as they said he had been inconsistent in his evidence about his disability 
at various points in time (e.g. discrepancies with the information he relayed to 
different medical experts).
As a result, the underwriters voided the policy, which meant that Mr H was liable to pay the 
defendants legal costs, as well as for the disbursements incurred by his own solicitors. Mr H 
complained that the underwriters had acted unfairly. He doesnt believe that he has 
breached any of his responsibilities under the policy terms and conditions and maintains that 
the claim was not false or fraudulent in any way. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered that Mr Hs failure to disclose 
the information about the DWP investigation had a material impact on his claim as it meant 
he had to accept the Part 36 Offer out of time due to a risk of it being withdrawn and a 
fundamental dishonesty finding being made at trial. So she didnt think the underwriters had 
acted unfairly by withdrawing cover. Mr H disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to 
determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 August 2021. I said I was minded to 
reach a different outcome to the investigator as I intended to uphold it, and set out the 
following reasoning:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue I need to consider here is whether the underwriters have acted fairly 
by voiding the policy under clause 8 of the terms and conditions and treating Mr Hs 
legal claim as though it were fraudulent or false. And having done so, Im not 
persuaded they have acted fairly in this regard.
The clause relied upon by the underwriters in this instance states:8. Fraudulent claims
If you make a claim which is fraudulent or false, this policy shall become void 
and all benefit under it will be forfeited.
It is worth noting that claim in this context is not referring to a fraudulent insurance 
claim, but the legal claim being pursued by the policyholder, as defined in the policy 
terms and conditions:
Claim
Your claim for compensation or other remedy against your opponent or such 
a claim by them against you.
The terms fraudulent or false are not defined elsewhere in the policy, but section 2 
of the Fraud Act 2006 does set out what is required in law for a person to be found 
guilty of fraud by false representation:
(1) A person if in breach of this section if he
(a) dishonestly makes a false representation, and 
(b) intends, by making the representation 
(i) to make a gain for himself or another, or 
(ii) to cause loss to another or to expose another to a risk of loss.
(2) A representation is false if
(a) It is untrue or misleading, and
(b) the person making it knows that it is, or might be, untrue or misleading.
Ive taken this definition into account when considering whether Mr Hs legal claim 
can reasonably be said to have been fraudulent or false. And having done so, I do 
not think it can reasonably be construed as either. The underwriters themselves have 
said that there is no suggestion that Mr Hs medical negligence claim was in any way 
false, and they acknowledge that no finding of dishonesty has actually been made in 
this instance. So this then begs the question of what basis the underwriters have 
relied on clause 8 to void cover in such circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr Hs credibility was called into question as the claim progressed. 
But that does not in turn mean that his claim was fraudulent and had been made 
dishonestly. Firm I have said that Mr H was easily confused and lacked intelligence, 
but that there was nothing to suggest he had been dishonest or intentionally 
uncooperative.
The underwriters appear to have based their belief on the defendants allegations of 
Mr Hs claim being fundamentally dishonest, and because counsel acknowledged 
there was a risk of such a finding being made if the case proceeded to trial. 
But as the underwriters have acknowledged, no such finding was ever made. And in 
my judgment, the mere suggestion or possibility of fundamental dishonesty is not 
enough to amount to a finding that Mr H has in fact made a false or fraudulent claim 
in these circumstances, which is what the underwriters appear to have determined. Clause 8 sets out that the underwriters can void the policy if the policyholder makes a 
claim that is fraudulent or false  which implies that such a finding would at least 
need to be made (i.e. not just alleged or suspected). But there has been no such 
admission from Mr H, and neither has there been any such finding made by a court 
or tribunal. Indeed, in counsels email of September 2019, she explained:
I felt it important to clarify that, at no time during the proceedings, was 
there a finding that [Mr H] was fundamentally dishonest or that [Mr H] 
had made a fraudulent or false claimAs with all cases, allegations are 
made within pleadings which are not always proven or do not stand up to 
logical scrutiny. In this case, the first issue which arose was the allegations 
made by the Defendant in relation to previous proceedings which [Mr H] had 
been involved in. When these allegations were made steps were taken by 
[Firm I] to investigate those claims and ascertain if any criticism could be 
levelled at [Mr H] and, in particular, whether there was any cross over 
between the previous claims in 1991 and 2000 and the proceedings with 
which we were concerned. As far as I am aware from the information which 
was obtained, there was no indication that [Mr H] had been dishonest in 
relation to those claims and/or that he had claimed anything as part of 
this claim which would have been covered by those proceedings. As 
such, and based on the available information (which was of course, limited 
due to the passage of time) I took the view that the Defendant would have 
been highly unlikely to prove any dishonesty in relation to those. There 
were, I accept, issues regarding discrepancies in the information [Mr H] 
provided to various experts and, as such, the impact of these on his credibility 
had to be taken into account as part of the settlement negotiations. [My 
emphasis added].
I appreciate that counsel had said in other emails that there was not an insignificant 
risk that [Mr H] would have been found fundamentally dishonest as a result of his 
benefits being disallowed by the DWP. But again, as Ive set out previously, no such 
finding was ever actually made. 
The underwriters submit that Mr H had been found guilty of dishonesty by the DWP, 
as the records obtained showed that his benefits had been disallowed as he had 
been working whilst in receipt of Employment and Support Allowance. But this isnt 
correct. Mr H was not prosecuted by the DWP, and neither was he found guilty of 
dishonesty (which isnt an offence in any event, but rather a state of mind relevant for 
the purposes of other offences, such as fraud and theft). 
Mr H was interviewed by the DWP for possible work undeclared whilst in receipt of 
benefits. It was determined that his earnings exceeded the upper limit, so his benefits 
were disallowed, and he had to repay £109.30. But while this may have affected his 
credibility, it does not mean that he was dishonest, or that he claimed his benefits 
dishonestly. Mr H says he believed he could work 16 hours per week and had even 
enquired and been told that was the case, but that he wasnt aware there was a 
maximum sum he could earn in any week. 
In any event, even if the DWP had found that Mr H had been dishonest in claiming 
his benefits (which there has been no finding to suggest that he has) this still doesnt 
mean that his medical negligence claim was false or fraudulent, or could be 
considered as fundamentally dishonest, because Im not persuaded his claim for 
benefits could be said to be at the root of either the whole of Mr Hs medical 
negligence claim or even a substantial part of it given that his claim did not include 
loss of earnings. So, Im not persuaded that the underwriters can fairly or reasonably void Mr Hs 
policy simply because there was a risk that a finding of fundamental dishonesty could 
have been made if the matter proceeded to trial. This does not equate to his claim 
being either fraudulent or false, so I do not consider that the underwriters can fairly 
invoke clause 8 in these circumstances.
I also do not consider there to be any statutory or legal basis for the underwriters to 
void cover in these circumstances either. The policy was taken out in January 2017, 
and Mr H was not aware there was a problem with the benefits hed claimed until he 
was interviewed by the DWP in November 2017. And it had only come to light that he 
had been overpaid in January 2018  a year after the policy had been taken out. 
So Im satisfied there was no qualifying misrepresentation (for the purposes of the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012) made at the point 
of sale that induced the underwriter to offer cover that they wouldve otherwise 
refused. Indeed, in their final response letter, the underwriters have also 
acknowledged that cover would not have been declined even if the underwriters had 
been made aware of the circumstances of the DWP investigation (which, of course, 
is a moot point in any event given that there was no such investigation at the point 
the policy was taken out). 
Withdrawal of indemnity
The underwriters further submit that they are not liable to indemnify Mr Hs claim as 
he has breached his obligations under the policy terms and conditions, namely 
clause 1(c) which states that he must tell the underwriters immediately of anything 
that may materially alter our assessment of the claim. They say that Mr H failed to 
make them aware of the DWPs findings.
Its accepted that Mr H didnt disclose anything about the DWP investigation to either 
his solicitors or the underwriters. But Mr H says that he didnt know he had to, as he 
didnt think it was relevant given it was an entirely separate matter to his medical 
negligence claim. And given that he was not claiming for loss of earnings, I dont 
consider that a reasonable lay policyholder in his position wouldve considered that 
an overpayment of benefits would have necessarily affect the claim either. Firm I 
have said that Mr H has always been co-operative in providing information as and 
when it had been requested, including his DWP records when these were requested 
by the defendant. And theyve said he repeatedly said he had nothing to hide. So Im 
not persuaded he wouldve known that his benefits overpayment could have 
materially altered the assessment of his claim, such that he could be said to have 
breached clause 1(c) of the policy. 
However, for the sake of argument I have gone on to consider whether it wouldve 
likely made a difference to Mr Hs claim if he had disclosed the DWP information 
when he became aware of it.  
On the advice of Firm I and his barrister, Mr H accepted the defendants Part 36 Offer 
on 10 June 2019. However, because he accepted it after the 21-day acceptance 
period stipulated in the Civil Procedure Rules, the defendant was only liable to pay 
Mr Hs costs up to 8 November 2018, and he was liable to pay all the defendants 
costs from 9 November 2018 to 10 June 2019.
The underwriters submit that the reason the Part 36 Offer was accepted out of time 
was because Mr Hs credibility was so damaged by the DWPs investigation that he 
was at risk of a finding of fundamental dishonesty. Theyve said that had they and the solicitors been aware of the DWPs findings, the Part 36 Offer would have been 
accepted within time. But as he failed to disclose the findings, he has negatively 
affected his credibility and increased the risk of an adverse finding being made 
against him, as well as now being liable for costs. 
However, the underwriters appear to be confused with the timeline and sequence of 
events here. The Part 36 Offer of £36,000 was made by the defendants on 
17 October 2018 and expired in November 2018. But no allegation of fundamental 
dishonesty had been made by the defendants at this stage and wasnt made until 
they submitted their counter schedule in May 2019. The Part 36 Offer was also made 
before the DWP investigation had even commenced, and it had already expired by 
the time the findings of that investigation had been issued by the DWP.
Firm I have also confirmed that, even if the DWP records had been available to them 
when the Part 36 Offer was made, it wouldnt have changed how the offer was dealt 
with given that Mr H was not making a claim for loss of earnings. Theyve said it was 
purely the value of the offer that resulted in the offer being turned down in November 
2018 as they had not exchanged or even obtained all of the expert evidence in 
relation to quantum, and no allegation of fundamental dishonesty had been made at 
that point. So I dont accept the underwriters position that the Part 36 Offer would 
have been accepted in time but for Mr Hs failure to disclose the findings of the DWP 
investigation, as this wasnt known at the time. 
In terms of what eventually led to the Part 36 Offer being accepted out of time, 
counsel has explained the factors that were behind this decision. I appreciate that 
she was of the opinion that the offer would have likely been withdrawn if the DWP 
records had been disclosed to the defendant (given Mr Hs credibility was already 
under question). But counsel also explained:
In advising that the Part 36 Offer of £36,000 needed to be accepted, the 
issues of credibility and the allegations of fundamental dishonesty were, 
however, only part of the picture. As we discussed in conference prior to the 
RTM, there was an ongoing litigation risk that the claim would not be 
provenThe prospects of success arguably reduced further on the day the 
RTM itself when the joint expert statement of the orthopedic experts was 
providedWithin that statement [the experts] agreed on a number of points 
but fundamentally disagreed as to whether [the defendants] actions were 
negligent. 
It was for this reason that I advised that the prospects of success were, at 
best, 60% - i.e. there was a 40% prospect of [Mr H] losing. I had also 
previously advised [Mr H] that there was a very real risk that, even if we 
proved the breach, the defendant would persuade a judge that his other joints 
had not been affected and in those circumstances his claim would only be 
worth around £50,000Whilst there was a risk of a fundamental 
dishonesty finding actually being made at trial, the far greater risk was, 
in fact, that [Mr H] would not succeed on liability and/or, if he did, he 
may not have been awarded a higher sum than the offer which the 
defendant had made. As such, in my opinion in discussion with [Firm L] 
there was no real prospect of the offer being beaten  hence the advice 
to accept the same. [My emphasis added]
So, while I acknowledge the risk of a finding of fundamental dishonesty was a factor 
in the decision to accept the Part 36 Offer instead of proceeding to trial, it was only 
one of several factors. And according to counsel, it also was also not the primary reason for the offer being accepted either, because the far greater risk was said to 
have been succeeding in establishing liability, which had nothing to do with the DWP 
findings. So Im not persuaded that Mr Hs failure to disclose this information any 
sooner wouldve made any difference to the direction or outcome of his claim, as it 
seems he wouldve likely always been advised to accept the offer in June 2019
Therefore, even if Mr H could be said to have breached clause 1(c) (which, for 
avoidance of doubt, I do not consider he has), Im not satisfied that it would be fair for 
the underwriters to withdraw cover for the claim, because the breach ultimately hasnt 
prejudiced his claim, as it was not the sole or even primary reason for accepting the 
Part 36 Offer out of time. 
As a result, I conclude that the underwriters have unfairly withdrawn indemnity for 
Mr Hs claim in these circumstances, so I intend directing them to reinstate the policy 
they have wrongly voided, and to pay his claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. 
It isnt clear if Mr H has since paid the legal costs that wouldve otherwise been 
covered under the policy. But if he has, he should let me know in his response to my 
provisional decision, in which case I intend to award 8% interest on any indemnified 
costs from the date he paid them until the date of settlement.
Developments
I invited further submissions from both parties. Mr H responded accepting my provisional 
findings, but the underwriters disagreed. In summary, theyve said:
They acknowledge no finding of dishonesty was made, but that was only because 
Mr H accepted the Part 36 offer. Claiming for benefits you are not entitled to is 
incorrect and wrong and could even be considered false or fraudulent.
Mr Hs ignorance of clause 1(c) is no defence, and he clearly would have known that 
his overpayment of benefits would have affected his credibility in court, and counsel 
also stated that there was a risk of his credibility being affected.
The disclosure of the DWP records would have affected credibility even if there was 
no claim for lost income. The Part 36 offer was not made before the DWP 
investigations, but after it. The insured knew that the DWP had investigated him and 
had made a decision against him, and he decided not to tell his solicitors about it. 
There is no requirement in the policy for an allegation of fundamental dishonesty (or 
other action of the insured) to be the primary reason for a case being dropped due to 
a change in prospects. Counsel stated that the Part 36 offer would have been 
withdrawn if the DWP records had been disclosed, so Mr Hs actions clearly affected 
the prospects of success. Had the insured not claimed benefits he was not entitled 
to, then there would have been no fear of the Part 36 offer being withdrawn. Firm I 
also considered the claim to be worth £450,000 in February 2019 but, after 
disclosure of the DWP findings, they subsequently advised accepting an offer of 
£36,000. So it seems this was the primary reason for the offer being accepted out of 
time. 
Both Firm I and counsel felt they would potentially have a conflict of interest in acting 
for Mr H if the Part 36 offer was not accepted. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the underwriters submissions in response to my provisional 
decision. But having done so, it has not altered my conclusion that the underwriters have 
unfairly voided cover and withdrawn indemnity for Mr Hs claim  Ill explain why. 
Was the claim fraudulent or false?
In terms of Mr Hs claim being considered fraudulent or false, the underwriters acknowledge 
that no such finding was made, but say this was only because Mr H accepted the Part 36 
offer. They say that claiming for benefits you are not entitled to is incorrect and wrong and 
could even be considered false or fraudulent. 
I appreciate there are circumstances where this may well be the case, and Im aware that 
individuals are often prosecuted for benefits fraud. But the fact remains in this case that Mr H 
was not prosecuted for benefits fraud. I also appreciate there was a possibility that a finding 
of fundamental dishonesty could have been made if the matter proceeded to trial. But it 
didnt, and no such finding was made. And I remain of the view that the mere possibility of 
this finding being made (although, not insignificant in Mr Hs case) is still not enough in these 
circumstances to conclude that the claim was fraudulent or false, as this would be too low a 
bar for such a serious accusation.  
As I set out in my provisional decision, clause 8 states that the policy shall become void if 
the insured makes a claim which is fraudulent or false. It doesn't provide for voidance in 
circumstances where fraud may merely have been alleged, or where a claimants credibility 
may have been called into question. So, in my judgment, this clause requires more than just 
a possibility of the claim being fraudulent or false in order for it to be fairly and reasonably 
invoked. Indeed, if the underwriters could void policies in such circumstances, it would 
theoretically entitle an insurer to void an after the event policy simply due to an allegation of 
dishonesty being made by the opposition, which I understand can often be raised within 
pleadings but are not always proven. 
I also do not consider it would be appropriate (or possible for that matter) for this service to 
determine whether Mr H has in fact been dishonest in claiming his benefits. Indeed, such a 
finding would require procedures such as cross examination of witnesses under oath, which 
is beyond the procedural capabilities of this service. Instead, I am considering whether the 
underwriters have fairly determined that Mr H has made a false/fraudulent/dishonest claim 
based on the evidence and legal advice presented. And given that there was no finding of 
fundamental dishonesty in Mr H's claim (which counsel has been quite clear about), and 
given that Mr H was not prosecuted, I'm still not persuaded it can reasonably be considered 
as a 'fraudulent or false' claim in these circumstances. So the underwriters recent 
submissions in this regard do not change my conclusion that they have unfairly voided the 
policy in line with clause 8. 
Mr Hs non-disclosure of the DWP findings
With regards to the matter of Mr Hs non-disclosure, the underwriters contend that his 
ignorance of clause 1(c) is no defence for not disclosing the DWP findings, and I 
acknowledge the validity of this point. However, as far as Im aware, Mr H has not argued 
that he was not aware of clause 1(c). Rather, he has said that he wouldnt have known to 
disclose the DWP findings as he didnt think it relevant to his negligence claim. 
The underwriters submit that Mr H clearly wouldve known that his overpayment of benefits 
would have affected his credibility in court, and counsel also stated that there was a risk of his credibility being affected. But while I accept a legal professional might have understand 
the significance of this, Im still not persuaded that a reasonable lay policyholder in Mr Hs 
position would have  i.e. that an overpayment of benefits (for which he was not prosecuted) 
would have necessarily affected a claim that was not for loss of earnings. Mr Hs legal team 
have also said that he was always co-operative in providing information, such that there is 
no suggestion of him deliberately concealing the DWPs findings or consciously choosing not 
to tell his solicitors. 
So, Im still not satisfied that his non-disclosure can reasonably be considered as a breach of 
clause 1(c), because I do not think he ought reasonably to have known to disclose it. But I 
accept nonetheless that theres an argument for saying that the DWP findings should have 
been disclosed as it ultimately affected his credibility, which is why I went on to consider 
whether it would have made a difference to the insurance claim and, if so, whether it would 
entitle the underwriters to withdraw the indemnity and cancel the policy. I have considered 
the underwriters submissions further in this respect.
I acknowledge that the Part 36 offer had in fact been made after the DWP investigation had 
commenced (and not before as I had originally stated), and I thank the underwriters for 
clarifying this point. However, it still does not change my conclusions. As I set out in my 
provisional decision, Mr Hs legal team confirmed that the DWPs findings wouldnt have 
changed how the offer was dealt with from the outset, given that he was not claiming for loss 
of earnings, and that it was purely the value of the offer that resulted in it being turned down 
in November 2018 (where no allegation of fundamental dishonesty had even been made at 
that point).
The underwriters submit that theres no requirement in the policy for an allegation of 
fundamental dishonesty (or other action of the insured) to be the primary reason for a case 
being dropped due to a change in prospects. And while I acknowledge there is no such 
requirement  and that the DWPs findings did risk affecting Mr Hs credibility in his claim  I 
dont think its accurate to say that that the case was dropped as a result of it. 
I appreciate the DWPs findings created a risk of the offer being withdrawn, but this still 
doesnt mean the offer would have likely been accepted any earlier (as the underwriters 
previously argued) and, according to counsel, neither would it have meant that a more 
favourable settlement was lost that couldve otherwise been obtained at trial. 
So, even if I were to accept that Mr Hs actions did affect the claims prospects in some form, 
I do not consider there to have been any prejudice to the insurers position here. No further 
costs were incurred that couldve been avoided as a result of Mr Hs non-disclosure, for 
example, and it seems that the other factors and circumstances affecting prospects were 
enough in themselves for the Part 36 offer to be accepted in June 2019, notwithstanding the 
DWPs findings. Counsel has advised there was no real prospect of the offer being beaten 
even if it went to trial, (that was if liability could be established, which counsel said there was 
a far greater risk that it would not be, but this was not due to Mr Hs non-disclosure or the 
DWPs findings). 
As the underwriters will no doubt be aware, they cannot avoid cover or withdraw indemnity 
on a mere technicality or breach of condition if they cannot demonstrate that the same has 
ultimately prejudiced their position or increased the loss (this has long been the fair and 
reasonable approach adopted by this service in such matters, and has also since been 
codified in statute: see section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015, for example).  
And in these circumstances, Im not satisfied the underwriters have been able to 
demonstrate any prejudice. Counsels advice suggests that Mr H would have been unlikely 
to beat the offer due to the doubt surrounding liability, which wouldve seemingly always been the case with or without the DWPs findings. The underwriters submit that earlier 
disclosure of the DWP findings would have saved on costs, time and effort. But Ive seen no 
supporting evidence or reasoning to substantiate their position in this respect. It also does 
not seem likely to have made a difference, because the allegation of fundamental dishonesty 
had not even made by the defendants until May 2019, which was months after the offer had 
been made and expired. And Ive seen no legal advice or opinion from Firm I or counsel that 
would indicate the offer would have been treated any differently had Mr H disclosed the 
DWPs findings before the allegation had been made. 
The underwriters say their position is that all the other points (save for the allegation of 
fundamental dishonesty) were already known to counsel and the solicitors when they initially 
recommended rejection of the Part 36 offer and put forward an updated schedule of loss for 
£450,000. I appreciate this may be what they believe, but it is in stark contrast with what 
acting counsel has said was the reason behind rejecting the offer, and for subsequently 
accepting it out of time. And I consider the advice and summary of counsel to be more 
persuasive in this regard, given that she was directly involved with the legal action.
So, even accepting that Mr Hs actions affected the prospects of his claim (notwithstanding 
any other factors, such as establishing liability) and could be considered a breach of the 
policy terms, I still do not consider it would not be fair and reasonable for the underwriters to 
refuse indemnity in circumstances where the breach cannot be said to have made a material 
difference to their position or the outcome of the claim.
The underwriters further submit that Mr Hs legal team felt they would potentially have a 
conflict of interest in acting for him if the Part 36 offer was not accepted. But the fact is that 
the offer was accepted after counsel advised that it should be, so again, I do not consider 
there to be any prejudice to the insurers position here. Had Mr H not accepted the offer at 
this time against counsels advice and incurred further costs proceeding to trial, then I think 
the underwriters would be justified in refusing to cover such costs. But that did not happen. 
There was no conflict of interest, as Mr H co-operated with the advice he was given and the 
Part 36 offer was accepted when Mr Hs legal team advised that it should be accepted. 
So, having considered the underwriters most recent submissions, Im still not persuaded 
that their decision to void cover and withdraw indemnity is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case. The underwriters have not been able to demonstrate that the 
claim was either false or fraudulent (as required by clause 8 in order for cover to be voided) 
and neither have they been able to demonstrate that any breaches of the policy conditions 
by Mr H have materially prejudiced their position with regards to his insurance claim, such 
that they would be justified in refusing to pay the claim. So, as I set out in my provisional 
decision, I remain of the opinion that there is no fair and reasonable basis for cover to be 
voided in this instance, or for the indemnity to be withdrawn.
I will therefore be directing the underwriters to reinstate the policy and pay the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions. 
Firm I have confirmed that Mr H has since paid the legal costs that wouldve otherwise been 
covered under the policy, so I will also be awarding 8% simple interest on those costs per 
year from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to:
Reinstate Mr Hs policy and pay his legal expenses claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms and conditions;Pay 8% simple interest per year on the costs Mr H has paid that shouldve been covered 
under the policy, from the date they were paid until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman