DRN-1444628
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Santander UK Plc limited access to her business account and did not 
help her to resolve this.
What happened
Mrs T called Santander on 3 January 2019 to order a replacement debit card. She was told 
by the members of staff she spoke to that she couldnt be identified. And that she would 
need either to go to a branch with identification or email her details to the manager. She 
complained. She says did not hear anything and in July 2019 contacted Santander again. 
Mrs T was told that there had been a problem with her systems profile and was offered £50 
in compensation. She did not accept that this was reasonable as her account had been 
restricted for such a long time.
Our investigator recommended that Santander pay Mrs T a further £150 for the 
inconvenience and disruption to the business. She said that Santander had told Mrs T how 
to deal with the issue. And as it did not receive a response she could not get a replacement 
card that was usable and her access to online banking remained blocked. There were still 
other transactions on the account possible. Santander had established in July 2019 that it 
held split records for the business account and had recorded her as Mr rather than Mrs 
on the system which caused concerns when she phoned. It paid compensation and refunded 
bank charges of £128 due to regular payments shed wanted to cancel being instead 
returned unpaid. The records were updated and access to the account restored on 24 July 
2019. Mrs T had not been made aware of that at the time. 
Mrs T did not agree and did not think that the issues shed raised had been understood. So 
she wanted her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt Mrs T was concerned and frustrated to learn about the problem in identifying 
her when she called Santander. She had been banking with it for a number of years and had 
not had any issue before. Ive listened to the call she had with two members of staff at 
Santander about this. The issue was that because she could not be identified those 
members of staff could not discuss her account with her. Mrs T knew she was genuine but 
the members of staff were not able to establish that. Mrs T now knows that this was because 
she had been wrongly recorded as Mr not Mrs on a profile when systems changes were 
made. So the authorised person on the account was a different gender which raised 
understandable security concerns that someone had obtained the details. 
Mrs T simply didnt accept that the members of staff could not access her account. I dont 
know exactly what they could see about it. But for security reasons they were not prepared to divulge information. Mrs T was concerned that someone else had been allowed access to 
her account and that she had not authorised this. 
The staff members she spoke to said that she needed to go into a branch with identification 
which was the standard process. That wasnt convenient for Mrs T. So exceptionally she 
was given the option of emailing the manager she spoke to with scanned identification 
documents which could then be reviewed. Mrs T took the email address but did not send 
this. I dont think in the circumstances it was unreasonable that the online access to the 
account and her ability to use it was restricted.
She wrote a complaint letter on 4 January 2019 and Santander sent a final response on 8 
January 2019 saying Mrs T would still need to visit a branch. Mrs T says she did not get this 
but unfortunately did get a further acknowledgement of her complaint dated 13 January 2019 
saying it was being looked into. Ive not been made aware of any contact she had with 
Santander after that until she wrote again on 1 July 2019 but Santander says it did not 
receive this letter. She contacted it again and it issued a final response on 30 July 2019 
explaining the issue. It again asked her to submit identification to correct the issue with her 
profile. But it didnt tell her that by then the restrictions had been lifted.
Ive looked at the account statements for her business account. Substantial withdrawals 
were still possible. Credits were received and regular payments taken. Mrs Ts says she 
could not operate her account as she wanted. And that she wanted to cancel certain of the 
direct debits. Those payments led to bank charges when there was insufficient money in the 
account and as our investigator has said these charges have been refunded.
Putting things right
There is no doubt that Santander made a mistake with her profile and details. In January 
2019 it needed Mrs Ts co-operation to resolve this. Mrs T knew she was in the right and did 
not think she should need to provide identification. Had she done so I think that this could 
have been resolved much earlier. And she was clear on what was needed at the end of the 
initial call and had contact details. I cant resolve why she didnt get the first final response: 
but it only said what shed already been told. And although inconvenient she instead seemed 
to work around the restrictions. At around the time that charges started to be accrued she 
contacted Santander again and said she had no way of cancelling these regular payments. It 
then recognised the issue and corrected it.
The mistake caused business disruption for Mrs T but however frustrating I think it 
reasonable for her to take action to mitigate this for her business. So I wont be requiring 
Santander to pay the compensation of £150 per month she asks for. I think that the further 
compensation recommended by the investigator of £150 alongside the £50 already paid and 
the refund of bank charges is reasonable. That reflects the element of unavoidable 
inconvenience caused by Santander. I wont be asking it to do more and I know Mrs T will 
remain dissatisfied about this.
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs 
T a further £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman