DRN-3900442
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (Legal & General) mis-
sold them a mortgage. They say they shouldnt have been advised to consolidate an 
unsecured car loan onto their mortgage debt as by doing so they are paying extra interest.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ps fixed rate was coming to an end, so they approached a broker associated 
with Legal & General in July 2008 to find a new mortgage product. Following advice from the 
broker, Mr and Mrs P agreed to a tracker mortgage and increased their borrowing to include 
a car loan that had around £3,500 remaining on it.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Legal & General that they had enough disposable income to 
continue paying for the car loan. That the car is a depreciating asset so it shouldnt have 
been consolidated into secured lending. And, they werent fully aware of how much more 
interest they would pay by adding the loan to their mortgage. 
Legal & General looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and said the broker made them aware 
of the implications of consolidating the loan. Mr and Mrs P had another car loan that was not 
consolidated, so they were aware it was not compulsory to consolidate the loan. And, the 
interest rate on the loan was higher than the mortgage, so consolidating it meant their 
monthly outgoings reduced by £97.83 a month.
Unhappy with Legal & Generals response, Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this 
service. An investigator issued their findings on the complaint and felt Mr and Mrs P were 
given enough information to make an informed decision. As Mr and Mrs P remained 
unhappy, the complaint was referred to me for a final decision. I issued a provisional 
decision on 21 December 2022 and I explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. Below is an extract of what I said: 
Legal & General says it thinks Mr and Mrs P were given enough information about 
consolidating the loan. But its important to consider that this was not an execution only 
application  the broker gave Mr and Mrs P a recommendation. That means they had to 
make sure the mortgage was suitable for Mr and Mrs P, and I dont think it was. 
Legal & General has provided the paperwork from the time of sale, including a fact find and 
a letter setting out the reasons for the brokers recommendation. Because this was an 
advised sale, I would have expected to see the fact find being used to gather information, 
and then the reasons why letter setting out  based on that information  why the advice was 
suitable. As part of that, I would expect the broker to include specific reasons as to why 
Mr and Mrs P were recommended to consolidate the car loan.
There is evidence in the fact find and recommendations letter to show the broker explored 
the options available to Mr and Mrs P for consolidating their unsecured debts. Another car 
loan of around £9,500 was not consolidated onto the mortgage because Mr and Mrs Ps 
daughter was contributing to the monthly repayments. But the broker went ahead, and 
recommended Mr and Mrs P consolidate the car loan of £3,500 onto the mortgage because 
this would reduce their monthly expenditures.
The fact find shows Mr and Mrs P were paying £627 a month on their existing fixed rate.  So, 
the total Mr and Mrs P were spending on their mortgage and the car loan, which cost 
£239.98 a month, was £866.38 a month in total. The broker recommended a tracker 
mortgage, to include the consolidated car loan, which would cost them £769.50 a month for 
the first two years, followed by £780.74 a month for the remaining six years. This would 
reduce Mr and Mrs Ps monthly outgoings by £96.88 for the first two years and £85.64 for 
the remaining six years. 
I can see why the option to consolidate the car loan was considered, especially because 
Mr and Mrs P had indicated they wanted to keep their monthly costs as low as possible. But 
I would have expected to see some calculations for the different options available to them, 
and a clear reason as to why the recommendation to consolidate the car loan onto the 
mortgage was made. I say this because the car loan was due to be fully repaid by 
October 2009  the following year. So, Mr and Mrs Ps monthly outgoings would have 
reduced by £239.98 when the car loan was fully paid off in just 15 months time. That means 
the monthly savings Ive mentioned above would only have a real impact on Mr and Mrs P 
for one year. I dont think this was made clear.
In addition, while the broker explained the car loan had £3,500 remaining on it and that 
Mr and Mrs P would pay £4,585 in total if the car loan was added to the mortgage, they 
didnt make it clear Mr and Mrs P would pay £1,085 in interest compared with around £99.70 
if they kept their loan as it was. So, I dont think the fact find nor the reasons why letter have 
explained why a monthly saving of £96.88, that would only have truly benefitted Mr and 
Mrs P for one year, was worth paying additional interest of around £985.30 over the eight 
year term of the mortgage. 
An income and expenditure assessment was completed as a part of the fact find. This listed 
all of Mr and Mrs Ps regular expenses, including their existing mortgage and car loan. And 
with both of those sums taken into account, Mr and Mrs P had a monthly disposable income 
of £1077. So, while they may have indicated that they wanted to keep the monthly cost of 
their new mortgage low, I dont think that means they were prepared to pay substantially 
more interest by consolidating the car loan in order to save £96.88 a month the first year. 
If the broker had explained everything to Mr and Mrs P, it may be Mr and Mrs P would still 
have said they wanted to consolidate the loan. But theres nothing to show these details 
were explained and the adviser recommended Mr and Mrs P consolidate their loan when it 
doesnt appear to have been in their best interests to do so. 
In summary, if the loan had been left alone then it would have been repaid in full in 
October 2009. This would have saved Mr and Mrs P around £985.30 in interest. And, after 
around one year, their monthly outgoings would have reduced more than consolidating the 
loan reduced them. The income and expenditure information doesnt indicate that leaving the 
car loan running would have caused Mr and Mrs P any financial difficulties. So, having 
considered everything, Im not satisfied the advice to consolidate the car loan was suitable 
and Im satisfied the broker should have recommended that Mr and Mrs P didnt take that 
action.For these reasons, I think Mr and Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. Its not possible to put 
Mr and Mrs P precisely back in the position they would have been in had the debt not been 
consolidated. But Ive thought about the best way to put things right and Ive set out how to 
put them as close to that position as possible below.
Putting things right
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited should pay put things right by:
A. Calculating the amount Mr and Mrs P paid, in interest and capital repayments, to 
that part of their mortgage balance up to the date they were due to repay their 
mortgage in full.
B. Calculating the amount it would have cost Mr and Mrs P to pay the loan back had 
it not been consolidated.
C. Deducting B from A and paying the result as a lump sum. 
D. Adding interest to C at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date the car loan 
would have been repaid to the date of settlement.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to take off 
tax from this interest, Legal & General must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Legal & General and Mr and Mrs Ps representative accepted my provisional decision. 
Legal & General agreed to compensate Mr and Mrs P by following the redress calculation 
set out under the heading Putting things right. But, after completing the calculation, Legal & 
General established Mr and Mrs P actually made a saving of £489.90. 
Legal & General has provided evidence the actual loan amount consolidated into the 
mortgage was £2,660.18, rather than the £3,500 previously advised. So, this is the figure 
that Legal & General would use to complete the calculation. And, having done so, it has 
found that there was no financial loss to Mr and Mrs P. 
So, while the case has been upheld on the basis the advice Mr and Mrs P received at the 
time wasnt suitable, by the time the mortgage went ahead, the advice ended up benefitting 
Mr and Mrs P and as theres no financial loss to Mr and Mrs P, theres no redress to be paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, but as 
theres no financial loss, Legal & General Partnership Services Limited doesnt have to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Hanna JohnsonOmbudsman