DRN-3738314
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way Creation Financial Services Limited handled her claim under
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to a sofa.
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs S took out a fixed sum loan agreement to finance a sofa that she
acquired from a supplier, who Ill refer to as H. The total invoice amount was £2,195 and this
cost was inclusive of care and protection insurance for five years  which cost £310 and was
designed to cover Mrs S against the cost of repairs if the structure of the sofa failed. Mrs S
paid a deposit of £312, so this meant the remaining amount of £1,883 was financed through
the fixed sum loan agreement. Mrs S monthly repayments were £39.22 for a term of 48
months from April 2020.
The sofa was supplied to Mrs S on 24 December 2019 and in January 2020 Mrs S says she
noticed that part of the sofa was dipping and wasnt as firm as the rest of the sofa. So, she
contacted H and the sofa was then inspected on 1 February 2020. The inspector said there
was a fault with part of the sofa and Mrs S says she was told the repair could take up to
eight weeks as parts were needed for the repair to be carried out.
In March 2020, due to Covid-19, the UK went into a lockdown which resulted in a lot of
businesses closing. So, Mrs S sofa couldnt be repaired in good time due to this.
Mrs S says she then found out that H was going into administration and would stop trading
from 1 July 2020. As a result, Mrs S contacted Creation on 13 July 2020 and made a Section
75 claim for the faulty sofa. Mrs S says she advised Creation that H had gone into
administration and she was still waiting for her sofa to be repaired. Mrs S says she was
advised by Creation that theyd temporarily stop her monthly repayments until this issue was
resolved. Mrs S says she didnt hear from Creation again until 15 August 2020 where they
said theyd been investigating her concerns. In the meantime, Mrs S says she continued to 
receive several communications from Creation telling her that repayments under the account 
were due.
Creation investigated Mrs S Section 75 claim. They said on 11 November 2020, they
requested a copy of the inspection report that was carried out on Mrs S sofa and they could
see the report confirmed there was a fault with the sofa  the foam was crushed and was
causing creasing to the fabric. As a result, it had been determined that that part of the sofa
would need a complete repair. In light of this, Creation offered Mrs S a chance to repair the
sofa under Section 75.
However, Mrs S says she wants to reject the sofa and to return it so she can buy a new one
of better quality. Mrs S also says she has no use for the care and protection insurance she
took out with H as this is no longer valid as H have gone into administration. So, Mrs S
would like a refund of this which was £310. Mrs S has also asked for Creation to refund her
deposit which was £312, and the three-monthly instalments she made which she says was a
total of £117.66. Mrs S also says on 3 October 2020, a £30 charge for a letter was added to
the overall amount Creation say is owing under the agreement  but Mrs S says shes not
aware of what this charge is for. So, she wants a refund of this amount.
In addition to this, Mrs S says she made three repayments in April 2020, May 2020 and June
2020. But that she was advised by Creation in September 2020 that theyd temporarily stop
requesting her monthly repayments until this issue had been resolved. Mrs S has provided
us with evidence of her credit file which shows she has eight missed payments from January
2021 for her account with Creation. So, Mrs S wants this adverse information removed from
her credit file.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs S concerns. In summary, she concluded that its clear there
was a fault with the sofa and this happened soon after Mrs S acquired it. As Mrs S sofa
couldnt be repaired in good time, and because H had gone into administration which meant
Mrs S couldnt arrange for the sofa to be repaired through them, our Investigator felt Mrs S
request to reject the sofa and return it wasnt unreasonable. Overall, our Investigator
recommended that:
Mrs S rejects the sofa, Creation take the goods back and cancel the agreement.
Taking the life span of a sofa into account to generally be around 11 years, our 
Investigator did some calculations which determined that while Mrs S should pay for 
use of the sofa, it should be capped at £428.30. The three-monthly payments Mrs S 
made towards the sofa, including the deposit, should be deducted from her liability 
cap, which would leave a credit balance owed to her plus 8% simple interest.
Creation should remove the £30 Creation charged for a letter from Mrs S overall 
liability amount.
Creation should also remove adverse information from Mrs S credit file in relation to 
this agreement, recording it as being settled in full as of the date of the last 
repayment in June 2020.
Creation should arrange to collect the sofa at no cost to Mrs S.
Creation didnt agree and felt their offer to repair the sofa for Mrs S was a fair one. So, the
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
I have to decide what, if anything, Creation should do to resolve Mrs S complaint.
Section 75 allows Mrs S to make a claim against Creation in respect of the sofa which she
bought using their credit. However, for Section 75 to apply, certain criteria needs to be
satisfied relating to things like the parties to the transaction, the way the payment was made
and the cost of the goods. I am satisfied this is met and Section 75 applies here.
Any Section 75 claim against Creation is limited to any breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier, in this case H, in relation to the agreement to supply the
goods. That is the extent of Creations liability. To determine whether the quality issues Mrs
S has identified amount to a breach of said supply contract, Ive had regard to The
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) which is of particular relevance to this complaint.
The CRA says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the
quality of the goods is satisfactory. The CRA says the quality of goods are satisfactory if
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The
CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things
like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.So, with these points in mind, Ive gone on to consider whether H breached their contract
with Mrs S or misrepresented the goods to her.
Ive first looked at the inspection report carried out in February 2020  Mrs S had the sofa for
around one month at this point. I can see that the report deems part of the sofa Mrs S
complained about to be a manufacturing fault because of crushed foam. And to rectify this
fault, a new interior for this one particular part of the sofa would need to be fitted. So, its
clear there was a fault. Given the goods were brand new and Mrs S had them for just over a
month before a fault happened, I think its fair to suggest the goods werent of satisfactory
quality as I dont think the sofa was durable. Therefore, I think there has been a breach of
contract by H.
I can see its noted in the report that Mrs S was happy to proceed with the repair at this
point. But that she was waiting for further contact from H in relation to what action will be
taken. However, the sofa hadnt been repaired and by March 2020, there were further delays
in repairing the sofa due to the Covid-19 lockdown. In addition to this, H went into
administration in July 2020 and were no longer trading. And Mrs S wasnt told by what point
she can expect to have her sofa repaired. Additionally, Mrs S was losing out because shed
paid for care and protection insurance which she wasnt able to use in the event of any
possible faults with the sofa. All in all, Mrs S said she wanted to reject the sofa and return it,
so, Ive gone on to consider whether I think this is fair for Mrs S to do.
It seems from what Mrs S has told us that the repairs on the sofa were due to start eight
weeks from the date of the inspection in February 2020. However, due to the Covid-19
pandemic and the lockdown, this wasnt possible. Mrs S contacted the company who carried
out the inspection to see if they could honour the repairs that they said were needed,
however, they werent able to do this due to H going into administration.
Instead, Mrs S says she was advised to pay for the repair herself and that she would be
reimbursed at a later date which Mrs S wasnt happy to do  specifically because shed
taken out an insurance product to provide cover in these types of events. I couldnt see
evidence of Mrs S being given this advice from the information I have available to me and I
can see Creations final response letter asks Mrs S to obtain a quote for the repair work and
to send it to them once she receives this. But in any case, I dont think it was unreasonable
for Mrs S to change her mind and want to reject the sofa instead. I say this because Creation
acknowledged Mrs S Section 75 claim in August 2020 but it wasnt until November 2020
that they requested a copy of the inspection report. Creation then wrote to Mrs S in
December 2020 accepting her claim and offering to repair the sofa. But by this point, Mrs S
had the faulty sofa for nearly a year and had made Creation aware of the issue in July 2020.
But the repair wasnt done within a reasonable period.
With all this in mind, I dont find it unreasonable Mrs S wants to reject the sofa and return it
as I dont think the sofa was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, so I think Mrs S
should be able to reject the sofa.
Summary of resolution
The CRA 2015 says that a finance company is allowed to make a deduction for fair use
when goods are rejected. However, it doesnt set out what rate or method is to be used. And
theres no exact science to working out a fair usage amount. Our approach at this service is
to look at all the circumstances and decide whats fair and reasonable. I think broadly, what
our Investigator suggested in terms of a remedy for Mrs S is in the right ballpark. But I dont
think our Investigator took into account the impaired use Mrs S had of the sofa as a result of
the fault.When thinking about whats fair, Ive considered the same thing as our Investigator in terms
of the average life span of a sofa to be around 11 years. Mrs S has had the sofa for around
two years in total, so I think its fair for Creation to keep Mrs S deposit of £312 to reflect the
usage shes had of the sofa for the time shes had it. But given I think Mrs S use of the sofa
was likely to have been impaired due the fault, in addition to the fact that I dont think the
sofa was of satisfactory quality, I think Mrs S should receive a refund of the three
repayments of £39.22 she made.
Mrs S also paid £310 for care and protection insurance that shes had no use of and isnt
able to use due to H going into administration. So, I think its fair for Mrs S to receive a
refund of this amount.
Creation also added a £30 fee to what Mrs S was owing under this agreement for what
seemed to be a letter on 3 October 2020. But its unclear exactly what this fee was for and
what letter Mrs S was being charged for. In any case, even if Creation did send Mrs S a
letter, this fee seems excessive. So, Ill be recommending Mrs S receives a refund of this
fee.
As Ive determined that theres been a breach of contract, I think Creation should end this
agreement and stop pursuing Mrs S for the monthly repayments under the agreement.
Creation should also remove all information, including any adverse information, about this
agreement from Mrs S credit file.
Putting things right
To summarise, Im minded to direct Creation to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the sofa at no cost to Mrs 
S.
Refund Mrs S the three-monthly repayments of £39.22 she made in April 2020, May 
2020 and June 2020.
Refund the £30 fee Creation charged Mrs S for a letter on 3 October 2020.
Refund Mrs S £310 she paid for care and protection insurance.
Pay 8% simple interest on the above amounts from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.*
Remove information about this agreement from Mrs S credit file including any 
adverse information.
*If Creation Financial Services Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs S how much theyve
taken off. They should also provide Mrs S with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mrs S accepted my provisional decision. Creation responded and explained Mrs S didnt pay 
the £30 fee herself, it was instead, added to the outstanding balance owed under the 
agreement. Creation also said they hadnt been provided with any evidence to show Mrs S 
took out a care and protection insurance for the sofa and that the finance agreement didnt 
show this product on it. In addition to this, Creation said they arent able to arrange to collect 
the sofa but are happy for Mrs S to either keep it at no extra charge. Or if Mrs S wanted to 
dispose of it herself and it comes at a charge, they are happy to reimburse this charge on 
receipt of an invoice.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reviewed the information provided by Creation about the £30 charge and I agree with their 
point  I couldnt see this had been paid by Mrs S directly to Creation at the point it was 
charged. And I can see it was, instead, added to the outstanding balance owed under the 
agreement. I explained this to Mrs S and said as Im directing Creation to end the agreement 
with nothing further for Mrs S to pay, it doesnt make a difference what the outstanding 
balance under the agreement is as Mrs S wont need to pay it. Mrs S understood this 
explanation and didnt provide me with any further points to consider on this point.
I also provided Creation with evidence to show Mrs S did take out the care and protection 
insurance at the time she acquired the sofa. However, having had another look at the invoice 
alongside the credit agreement, I can see the invoice amount of £1,883 included the cost of 
the care and protection insurance. And I can also see the credit agreement was for £1,883. 
Therefore, Mrs S didnt pay separately for the insurance and it was instead included in the 
overall finance amount. As Im recommending Mrs S receives a refund of the three-monthly 
repayments she made, this includes what Mrs S paid for the care and protection insurance. 
So, I clarified with Mrs S and Creation that I wont be recommending Mrs S receive a refund 
of the £310 as I originally said in my provisional decision. Mrs S responded and confirmed 
she understood.
Lastly, Mrs S said shes happy to dispose of the sofa herself. So, Mrs S will just need to 
provide Creation with an invoice (if the disposal comes with a charge), once shes disposed 
of it.
Putting things right
To summarise, I direct Creation to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
Refund Mrs S the three-monthly repayments made in April 2020, May 2020 and June 
2020.
Pay 8% simple interest on the above amounts from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.*
If there is a cost to dispose of the sofa, reimburse Mrs S this cost on receipt of an 
invoice.
Remove information about this agreement from Mrs S credit file including any 
adverse information. 
*If Creation Financial Services Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs S how much theyve 
taken off. They should also provide Mrs S with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require Creation Financial Services 
Limited to carry out the actions as set out in the putting things right section of this decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman