DRN-4408277
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
declined a claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Chaucer has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions set out the cover available under the policy. It says: 
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for the reasonable extra 
costs of travel and accommodation you incur to reach your booked holiday 
destination if you cannot reach the final international departure point on the outward 
or return journey from or to the United Kingdom because:
public transport services fail due to poor weather conditions (but not including 
weather conditions defined as natural catastrophe), a strike, industrial action 
or mechanical breakdown: or
the vehicle in which you are travelling is directly involved in an accident or 
suffers a mechanical breakdown (this would not include your vehicle running 
out of fuel, oil or water or suffering a flat tyre, puncture or flat battery).
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint because: 
Mr and Mrs Ss flight was cancelled due to a technical issue. Theyve obtained 
confirmation from their airline that was the reason for the cancellation. Theyve also 
provided consistent and plausible testimony that this was related to an issue with the 
engine. Ive found their evidence to be credible and persuasive. 
I dont think its reasonable for Chaucer to conclude that this is insufficient to 
demonstrate an insured event took place. I think, on balance, its most likely an 
insured event did take place. And, in any event, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude that the reason for the flight cancellation was a mechanical 
breakdown, caused by a technical fault. 
Mr and Mrs S have tried on a number of occasions to get further information from the 
airline but havent been able to do so. I think theyve made reasonable attempts to 
obtain this information and its unlikely theyll be unable to get further clarification. 
Putting things right
Chaucer needs to put things right by paying the claim under the Travel Delay section, 
subject to the remaining policy terms and limits. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about Chaucer Insurance Company Designated 
Activity Company and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman