DRN-3464753
The complaint
Mr D complains to IG Index Limited about their decision to close a position on his account. 
Hed like the losses he incurred as a result to be refunded.
 
What happened
Mr D had a spread betting account with IG. On 22 December 2020, he opened a position  
intended to be for the longer term  in a cryptocurrency called XRP, known as Ripple at 
47.14. Mr D did this ahead of new rules coming into force in early 2021 that were to restrict 
retail investors from trading crypto-derivatives. 
Shortly after opening the position, IG got in touch with Mr D to let him know they were going 
to stop offering trading on XRP  as a result, his position would be closed in around a weeks 
time. Mr D was unhappy about this  XRPs price had traded down since he opened his 
position and while this wouldnt usually concern him, as it wasnt a short term play, it meant 
he was set to crystallise a loss and that wouldnt be able to have the longer term exposure 
hed wanted ahead of the rule change.
When IG got in touch with Mr D about this, they explained that XRP had been subject to 
significant volatility following the announcement that the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) had filed a lawsuit against Ripple Labs Inc. IG said theyd been closely 
following the market reaction and had taken a decision that given the exceptional 
circumstances, from 12pm on 15 January 2021 they would no longer offer trading. 
IG went on to explain that other market participants had already stopped or restricted trading 
in XRP and others had announced their intention to do so. This included a number of major 
cryptocurrency exchanges which had announced theyd be delisting the coin in the coming 
weeks. IG explained they were concerned about the potential for significant interruption, 
liquidity and pricing issues up to and including the risk that the market was no longer viable. 
They felt those circumstances would make it difficult to price the market accurately, hedge 
client activity and provide clients with a fair service.
Mr D wasnt happy about this and got in touch with IG to share his concerns. He said hed 
taken the position out for longer term prospects and though he appreciated IG didnt want to 
offer the market, they shouldnt have forced him to crystallise his losses. Though he 
appreciated the size and scale was different, he said it would be unacceptable for IG to have 
decided not to trade Apple, Amazon or Tesla with such short notice. 
In the course of follow up correspondence, IG explained that their decision not to offer XRP 
didnt reflect their views of the SEC investigation  it was solely to do with how underlying 
market participants had reacted to the news. IG said only one of their partners was 
continuing to support XRP, and even they had yet to confirm their stance on the SEC 
investigation  so this was a large single point of risk for the business and clients. IG said 
they hoped Mr D would understand that they couldnt offer a product where their liquidity 
provision was all but gone, as the final market participant might have decided to suspend 
trading at short notice too. They suggested Mr D try and re-establish his exposure via 
another firm, so if the price improved as he thought it would, he would have a position 
running. 
Though Mr D appreciated that IG didnt want to offer XRP, he explained his issue was that 
theyd decided to close a trade intended for the long term with very short notice and with no 
compensation. IG didnt change their mind and so Mr Ds position was closed on 15 January 
at 28.71  he lost just over £184. Mr Ds concerns were treated as a complaint and IG sent 
him their final response letter in April 2021. They said, in summary:
The SEC lawsuit had, and continued to have, a significant impact on physical 
providers of XRP. 
IG had received notice from a number of major exchanges through which XRP was 
hedged that it would no longer be offered. As there was no one centralised exchange 
for it, a range of providers was necessary in order to accurately quote a market  this 
was similar to IGs foreign exchange offering in which 14 major banks are used to 
provide quotes.
A number of IGs cryptocurrency providers had imposed restrictions with little to no 
notice, and this supported IGs need to respond swiftly. Only one of IGs providers 
was trading in XRP. This offered insufficient liquidity and was too high a risk for IG to 
offer the market.
While IG aimed to give 30 days notice prior to closing client positions, the shorter 
deadline was imposed in client best interests  the restrictions placed on IGs ability 
to hedge exposure would have in turn restricted clients from trading as freely as 
theyd like, and with the risk IG would be prevented from selling on exchanges, 
clients would be left unable to close out of positions.
Theyd acted in line with term 23 of their customer agreement and though notice was 
shorter than usual, it gave clients time to gain exposure with another provider still 
offering the market  they said theyd cover the reasonable costs incurred in taking 
an equivalent position elsewhere if this was the case.
And they shared evidence to show Mr D had accepted the updated versions of the 
customer agreement over the years.
Unhappy with their response, Mr D asked for our help. He emphasised that hed specifically 
taken the position out in order to hold it for the longer term ahead of restrictions coming in for 
retail investors so he asked for his position to either be reinstated, or to be paid for his losses 
plus compensation. 
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened but didnt agree IG had done 
anything wrong. He said the regulatory action surrounding Ripple Labs had a knock on effect 
to liquidity in the market which impacted Mr Ds position in several ways  without diverse 
pricing information, IG would struggle to value the holding and volatility would increase the 
chance of significant loss. It also affected IGs ability to hedge the position, meaning margins 
and spreads would widen. Because of this, our investigator thought IGs actions in relation to 
Mr Ds position were fair and reasonable. Mr D remained unhappy and said, in summary:
Hed agreed to IGs terms around 20 years ago  hed not signed anything since, nor 
clicked to agree to any new terms,
The complaint is about good faith and IG not closing a position leaving him with 
unjustified losses,
IG shouldnt have acted unilaterally and their terms are not a free pass to act carte 
blanche, 
He considered hed made a fair bet with IG with no closure deadline and akin to a 
football or rugby match, he did not open this bet only to be taken out by IG at half 
time  if the bet was too volatile or beyond their control, they shouldnt have offered it 
in the first place, and their decision was without justification,
He works professionally alongside sports betting companies so he knows that 
volatility risk is always part and parcel of bets and outcomes  with this position, he 
was able to handle the volatility, given the small size,
IG went on to offer the market again at a later date, at a higher price that wouldve 
seen him in profit,
And if IG had to take action in closing the position, they should have offered fair and 
reasonable recompense  he asked why he should he lose out as a result of their 
actions.
Our investigator thought about what Mr D had said but wasnt minded to change his view. He 
thought the customer agreement was relevant and would have been agreed to. He explained 
that he thought what IG had done was reasonable as they had fair reason for their actions. 
Though Mr D had lost money, his position was closed with reference to the current market 
value at the time.
Mr D didnt agree. He said he didnt sign or agree to any terms that would allow IG to close a 
bet in mid-flow due entirely to the risk to themselves without any recompense being offered. 
IGs actions were unjustifiable in any walk of life, let alone regulated financial betting. Mr D 
felt very strongly that IGs actions were wrong so as an agreement wasnt reached, the case 
was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I would like Mr D to know that I appreciate his strength of feeling about his 
complaint and I assure him that my review is based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. However, although I appreciate this will disappoint him, 
I also dont think IG have done anything wrong here. Ill explain why. 
The crux of Mr Ds complaint centres around whether IG should have been allowed to take 
the actions they did. Though Mr D appreciates IG could decide to stop offering a product, his 
concern is how they went about not offering it anymore  they cancelled a bet which was in 
play, and in doing so gave him limited notice and didnt write off the losses he crystallised as 
a result. 
Mr Ds relationship with IG was governed by and outlined within their customer agreement. 
This was something he agreed to when first opening his account around 20 years ago and 
that had since been updated over time. I can see from IGs final response letter that they 
detailed when Mr D agreed to updated terms whether expressly or not  I can see updates in 
2013, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 were agreed to. The customer agreement in force at the relevant time was the 2019 one. Section 23 is what 
IG have relied on in this instance and covered what IG called force majeure events  
generally speaking, terms like this cover unexpected circumstances outside a contracting 
party's reasonable control that, having arisen, prevent them from performing their contractual 
obligations. At 23 it said, in part:
(1) Subject to Applicable Regulations, we may, in our reasonable opinion,
determine that an emergency or an exceptional market condition exists (a Force
Majeure Event), in which case we will, in due course, inform the FCA and take
reasonable steps to inform you. A Force Majeure Event will include, but is not
limited to, the following:
(a) any act, event or occurrence (including, without limitation, any strike, riot or
civil commotion, act of terrorism, war, industrial action, acts and regulations of
any governmental or supra national bodies or authorities) that, in our opinion,
prevents us from maintaining an orderly market in one or more of the Indices in
respect of which we ordinarily accept Bets;
(b) the suspension or closure of any market or the abandonment or failure of
any event on which we base, or to which we in any way relate, our quote, or
the imposition of limits or special or unusual terms on the trading in any such
market or on any such event; 

(2) If we determine that a Force Majeure Event exists we may at our absolute
discretion without notice and at any time take one or more of the following steps:

(b) close any or all of your open Bets, other than any Limited Risk Bet, at such
Closing Level as we reasonably believe to be appropriate (and, in the case of a
Limited Risk Bet, where there is no quotation available, we may close any such
Bet at the time when we reasonably believe that, but for the existence of the
Force Majeure Event, the level set by you for closing the Bet would have
been reached);
So the relevant term here referred to a force majeure event as being one that could prevent 
IG from maintaining an orderly market or problems that could affect the way they based or 
related their quote  and if this happened, they could close bets at a level they believed to be 
appropriate without notice. Ive therefore thought about what happened within the market 
around the time and whether IG applied their term fairly and reasonably. 
I can see that on 22 December 2020, the SEC announced it had filed an action against 
Ripple Labs Inc.  the blockchain developer and creator of XRP  and two of its executives 
alleging that they raised over $1.3 billion in an unregistered security offering. In the 
unregulated cryptocurrency sector, the targeting of a specific coin was high-profile news. IG 
explained the impact of this meant they started to lose liquidity providers for XRP in January 
2021  indeed, their email to Mr D said that market participants had already stopped or 
restricted trading in XRP and others had announced their intention to do so. This included a 
number of major cryptocurrency exchanges, which had announced theyd be delisting the 
coin in the coming weeks. 
In IGs view, there was no longer an orderly market in XRP  this led to their decision to stop 
offering it as they were unable to properly hedge client positions. Though I appreciate Mr D 
doesnt agree, I think IGs application of their terms was fair and reasonable. What happened 
was without precedent and changes were fast paced  if IG had only one provider, and that provider had yet to say whether theyd continue to offer quotes too, there was a real risk IG 
would leave consumers stuck in products they couldnt get out of. 
The lack of providers might also have affected how IG hedged itself against positions in XRP 
 this was important as Mr D didnt buy XRP itself, he bought a derivative product based on 
XRPs price so IG were taking the other side of this bet. Ordinarily a firm would be able to 
decide how to handle the other side of a bet like this, such as to take it on themselves, 
match it against an opposing trade or perhaps hedge it in the market. But it seems IG felt 
their options to offer a market were limited at the time, so I dont agree with Mr D in that they 
should have offered a workaround to keep his trade in play. 
So from everything Ive seen, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of IG to say they 
couldnt offer an orderly market  it was unprecedented  and that the situation gave rise to 
a force majeure event as defined by IGs terms. As IG reached that conclusion, which I dont 
think is unreasonable based on their explanation of the reasons why, I think they were acting 
prudently within the confines of a volatile market and within the agreement they had with 
Mr D. The force majeure term didnt build any notice period in, but I dont find this to be 
uncommon and that it was instead reflective of the unusual circumstances it is intended to 
apply to. 
It is unfortunate that Mr D lost money on his position, but given what happened with the coin 
I can understand why IG stopped offering it at the time. To ask IG to compensate Mr D for 
his losses would be unfair as the market conditions had gone against him. I appreciate 
Mr Ds strength of feeling about his complaint and understand he will remain disappointed 
with my decision, but I assure him that my review has been based on what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman