DRN-1778290
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined a claim he made under 
his car warranty.
What happened
Mr P made a claim under his warranty for a fault that developed with his vehicle in January 
2019. He says he was driving the car when he heard an unusual noise. Following advice 
from the AA, the car was then recovered to a garage, where it was inspected. 
The garage produced a report which related the fault to the big end bearings. It said the car 
had developed a crank knock, a sound that would get louder with time and that engine 
failure was imminent.
Great Lakes engineer produced a report which said the fault was due to wear and tear. It 
said this was not covered under the warranty and so declined the claim.
Mr P was unhappy with Great Lakes response and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld, saying it was unfair 
for Great Lakes to rely on an exclusion in the warranty relating to wear and tear, when the 
wear and tear in this case was accelerated and the part had not yet reached the end of its 
normal working life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why. 
The warranty excludes Failure or breakdown, which ultimately results from Wear and Tear. 
So Ive thought about whether that exclusion can be applied fairly here, based on the likely 
causes of the fault that developed with Mr Ps vehicle.
Ive read both the reports provided. And I think the report Mr P has given us is more 
persuasive. I say this because, although the report provided by Great Lakes engineer is 
comprehensive and includes photographs taken of the vehicle as well as a description of the 
likely cause of the fault, it does not go into as much detail as Mr Ps report, and does not 
adequately explain why one part was worn when other similar parts were not.
This suggests, as our investigator said, that the wear and tear to the worn big end bearing 
was indeed accelerated, as the other big end bearings are described as being in good 
condition. As both engineers reports appear to conclude that the injector is likely to have 
caused the accelerated wear to one of the big end bearings, I dont think its fair to suggest 
that the worn big end bearing had come to the end of its natural working life. And I agree 
with our investigator that this is what the wear and tear part of the policy is designed to 
exclude. It follows, therefore, that I dont think its fair to rely on the wear and tear exclusion 
here.
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE should reconsider the claim based on the remaining terms of the 
warranty. If no other exclusion applies then Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the claim 
subject to the warranty limitations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put 
things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman