DRN-2445842
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his bank account and 
decided he was liable for a disputed cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mr S opened a bank account with NatWest around March 2020 and deposited £950 into it  
he says this was his own money that he earned through work. Shortly after this, NatWest 
decided to close Mr S account. Around the same time, £200 was withdrawn from Mr S 
account. Mr S raised a dispute with NatWest and said he couldnt have made this withdrawal 
as he hadnt received his debit card and PIN. NatWest concluded that Mr S was responsible 
for the withdrawal.
Mr S raised a complaint about what had happened. He told NatWest that hed been 
experiencing issues receiving post and suggested that someone had taken his debit card 
and PIN before it was delivered. Mr S confirmed that he lives with his elderly father and that 
no-one else has access to his home
NatWest didnt agree with Mr S  it concluded that there was little chance that Mr S debit 
card and PIN were both intercepted as these were sent separately; so someone wouldve 
needed to intercept them on two separate occasions. NatWest also said it had closed Mr S 
account in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr S asked this service to step in and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator was of the view that the transaction was authorised using the card chip and PIN, 
so Mr S was likely to have made the withdrawal. The investigator agreed that it was unlikely 
that both the debit card and the PIN were intercepted separately and that the use of the card 
suggested it was unlikely to be a fraudster and more likely someone who had knowledge of 
the account. The investigator also agreed that the bank had acted fairly when it closed Mr S 
account in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr S didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also think that NatWest acted fairly. 
Generally, NatWest can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. The relevant
regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
Im satisfied the genuine card was used in order for the disputed transaction to take place. 
And despite what Mr S has said, Im persuaded he carried out the transaction. I know Mr S 
will be disappointed to hear this, so Ill explain why.
Mr S claims he didnt receive his debit card and PIN and suggests that these were 
intercepted by an unknown third party in transit. Mr S says hes experienced problems with 
missing post for some time and sent us copies of complaints hed made about this. But this 
information isnt enough to persuade me that its likely that an unknown third party 
intercepted the delivery of the debit card and PIN. 
Mr S had only recently opened a bank account with NatWest. And so its reasonable to 
expect that he wouldve known that hed be receiving a new debit card and PIN. Moreover, 
NatWest has shown records of text messages that were sent to Mr S, notifying him that his 
card and PIN had been sent. If, as Mr S says, he had indeed been experiencing problems 
with missing post for some time, Id expect him to have notified NatWest so it could have 
arranged an alternative way for the debit card and PIN to be delivered to him. 
The information NatWest has provided shows that the debit card and PIN were sent 
separately and several days apart. If, as Mr S says, someone did intercept these in transit, 
they wouldve needed to do so on two separate occasions. And in order to do so, they would 
need to know exactly when both had been sent  this is information thats only available to 
the bank and Mr S. So I think its unlikely that that an unknown third party intercepted Mr S 
debit card and PIN before these arrived. 
Even if I did consider that an unknown third party had intercepted Mr S post and therefore 
had access to his debit card and PIN  the use of the card doesnt suggest it was in the 
hands of an opportunistic thief. NatWests information shows Mr S debit card was used once 
at an ATM near his home address, to check the balance of the account and withdraw £200. 
There were no further attempts to use the card or withdraw funds. Had an unknown third 
party taken Mr S debit card and PIN, its most likely they wouldve attempted to withdraw as 
much as possible and maximise use of the card. 
But this isnt what happened, so I think its unlikely that an unknown third party was using 
Mr S card and PIN.  
Ive considered whether Mr S card and PIN may have been accessed by someone close to 
him or a third party that may have had access to his home. Given the above, this seems 
more plausible than an unknown third party intercepting Mr Ss post. However, Mr S told us 
that he lives with his elderly father and there isnt anyone else that has had access to his 
home. So, I think its unlikely that Mr S card was used by someone close to him or by 
someone who has had access to his home.
Taking all the information and evidence in to account, its difficult for me to conclude that 
somebody other than Mr S carried out the withdrawal he is disputing. So, I wont be asking 
NatWest to reimburse him. 
Account closure 
Mr S is also concerned that NatWest decided to close his account. Part 12.2 of NatWests 
terms and conditions set out that it can close Mr S account immediately for the reasons 
outlined in the terms. Based on this and NatWests submissions to this service, Im satisfied 
that the bank closed Mr S account in line with its terms and conditions. And I dont think 
NatWest treated Mr S unfairly in doing so.
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen, my conclusions are that the cash withdrawal 
Mr S disputes was authenticated and that it is more likely than not that Mr S, or someone 
with his knowledge or authority carried out the withdrawal. Im also of the view that NatWest 
acted fairly when it decided to close Mr S account. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman