DRN-3013295
The complaint
Mr T complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) should have done more to stop some of the 
payments hes made to a specific retailer, which Ill call R, from being duplicated.
What happened
Mr T has a bank account with Monzo which he opened in September 2019. 
In early 2020, Mr T noticed some of the card payments hed made to R were showing as 
being requested twice. Although the extra payments didnt leave his account  the funds 
appeared unavailable until the duplicate payments were reversed.
When Mr T contacted Monzo about this issue, they said the problem related to a technical 
error involving Rs payment processor. They also explained that they were working with all 
the parties involved to help solve the problem  however they couldnt provide a timeframe 
for a solution being found. They also told Mr T any duplicate payments would automatically 
be reversed within a few days, but he could also request a manual reversal straight away.
As Mr T continued to experience the same problem on an intermittent basis, he periodically 
complained to Monzo and they addressed the problem in several final responses. On a few 
occasions, Monzo paid Mr T some compensation to say sorry for delays in responding to 
him when using their chat function. However, they declined to provide Mr T with any 
compensation for the technical fault itself - as they said they werent responsible for it and 
they were doing everything they could to try and minimise its impact.
In June 2021 Mr T referred his complaint to our service. He said Monzo should take full 
responsibility for the fault and pay him £300 compensation for the upset its caused him. 
Our investigator acknowledged Mr Ts strength of feeling but also said she didnt think it was 
appropriate for Monzo to provide him with any additional compensation. She said Monzo had 
made it clear to him that any duplicate payments would automatically be reversed and if he 
didnt wish to wait, a manual reversal could take place. She also suggested to Mr T that he 
could reasonably use a different card when shopping with R, to further minimise the impact 
of this problem.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators opinion. He agreed that he couldve used one of his 
other cards when shopping at R - but didnt think he should reasonably have needed to do 
so. He also said his payments to R hadnt been duplicated since he raised the complaint with 
our service, and he doesnt think this is a coincidence. Finally, he thinks Monzo should show 
more empathy, and treat him fairly by providing the compensation hes requested. 
As our investigators opinion remained the same  Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think it is useful to explain our role. This service isnt intended to regulate or 
punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead we look to resolve individual complaints between a customer and a business. Should 
we decide that something has gone wrong  we can ask the business to put things right by 
placing their customer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if the 
problem hadnt occurred. We also consider the impact of the problem and if the customer 
could reasonably have done anything to mitigate the situation. 
Monzo have acknowledged the technical problem and are actively working with Rs payment 
processor, and all other associated third parties to try and find a permanent solution. I 
appreciate Mr T feels Monzo should accept sole responsibility and could have solved the 
problem straight away. But based on the number of third parties involved and the evidence 
Monzo have provided - including example authorisation codes and correspondence with the 
other parties - I dont agree with Mr T. Based on what Ive seen, this is unfortunately a 
complex problem. But, Im satisfied Monzo are keen to work with everyone involved to try 
and resolve it.
Im also glad to hear Mr T hasnt experienced the problem recently. I agree this is unlikely to 
be a coincidence but not for the reasons Mr T has suggested. As mentioned above, Monzo 
have been working with the relevant third parties to try and solve the problem, so a reduction 
in the number of duplicated payments is what I would reasonably expect. I havent seen any 
evidence which suggests Mr T has been singled out in relation to this problem or his 
complaint, and as hes aware he isnt the only customer that has unfortunately been  
impacted by this issue.
Each time Mr T complained about this problem, Monzo gave him a detailed explanation and 
made it clear that no duplicate funds would leave his account. This is reflected in Mr Ts 
payment history, as I note that all the duplicated payments were reversed quickly and in any 
event within a few days. Mr T also doesnt appear to have experienced a financial loss 
because of this problem, and he hasnt incurred any bank charges. So, the impact of this 
issue is limited to the trouble and upset hes experienced.
After Mr T received Monzos initial acknowledgement of the problem in 2020, I think he 
should reasonably have been aware any payments he made to R, using his Monzo card had 
the potential to be impacted by this problem. Its also reasonable to conclude he was aware  
any duplicate payment wouldnt leave his account, and at most would be automatically 
reversed within a few days. So, if the problem did happen again  as it unfortunately did - it 
was unlikely to have any long lasting consequences.
Mr T has said he shouldnt have needed to consider using an alternative card to make 
payments to R. I appreciate his position and it isnt my place to tell Mr T how he should pay 
for his goods. However, as Monzo told Mr T the problem was unfortunately ongoing - this 
could have been a simple way to limit the impact of this issue, in addition to the work Monzo 
were carrying out. 
Despite this, Mr Ts frustration and upset is understandable. He shouldnt reasonably have 
experienced any problems when using his Monzo card to shop at R, and I know this 
intermittent problem has impacted many of his transactions. I also appreciate that monitoring 
his account for this issue and having some of his funds temporarily restricted would have 
been frustrating.
Im satisfied Monzo have taken steps to try and resolve this problem and minimise its impact 
as far as reasonably possible. So, while I empathise with Mr Ts position, and appreciate his 
frustration, I dont think Monzo should reasonably pay him the compensation hes requested. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman