DRN-3514497
The complaint
Mr I complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) wont allow him 
to cash in his annuity.
What happened
Mr I previously brought a complaint to this service about the sale of his Pension in 1988. Mr I 
believes his application policy was altered so that Prudential could sell him the policy and 
contract him out of State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS).
As part of that complaint, Prudential offered to do a loss calculation to put Mr I back in the 
position as close as possible as if hed not contacted out of SERPS. It did not agree that 
anything fraudulent had occurred. And I, the deciding ombudsman, considered that offer fair. 
I cannot now consider this matter again in this decision.
Mr Is current complaint is that Prudential should agree to pay him the remaining cash value 
of his pension. One of his reasons for this is he thinks the pension has come about due to 
alleged fraudulent activity and so Mr I believes the money should never have been 
Prudentials in the first place.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt agree that Prudential had done anything 
wrong in not allowing Mr I to cash in his pension. The investigator explained that hed 
thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to say that Prudential should do this 
but hed considered the applicable rules and the circumstances of the case and he felt there 
was no obligation on Prudential to do so. And that it had acted fairly in declining Mr Is 
request.
Mr I in response repeated his arguments about the original sale of the policy and his belief 
that fraudulent activity had occurred and so any contract was now void. Mr Is argument is 
that the money should be returned to him as it was taken from him fraudulently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make it clear at this point I cannot consider anything that was already considered 
as part of the other complaint and resulting decision referred to in the above section. We 
were only able to consider this complaint as it relates to Mr Is request to cash in his pension 
which hadnt previously been considered.
Mr I has provided us with some detailed submissions, but Ive only summarised the points 
that I think are key to the relevant complaint issues. I dont mean this as a disservice  I 
have taken into account everything he has told us. The level of detail Ive included in my 
decision is merely a reflection of the informal nature of this service. And it is part of my role 
to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair 
outcome  this means I might not mention everything Mr I has said, but I will comment on 
everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.
When Mr I took his annuity out in 2010, he was only aged 50 and his options were limited to 
taking an annuity with or without a cash lump sum. Mr I chose to take out an annuity with a 
lump sum. Ive looked at the information provided by Prudential at the time and it explained 
Mr Is options clearly and it also explained that after hed chosen how hed like his income to 
be paid, hed be unable to change his mind. So I dont think Prudential did anything wrong in 
relation to the sale of the annuity.
Mr I claims the annuity was mis-sold as it came from money fraudulently held by Prudential 
from the initial sale of the policy which contracted him out of SERPS. However, Mr I has 
already received redress (and a final decision) which put him in as close a position as if hed 
remained in SERPS. So this matter has already been considered.
So my findings have concentrated on whether he should be allowed to cash in his annuity 
now. Mr Is reasoning for wanting the annuity cashed are again largely based around his 
belief that Prudential shouldnt hold his pension funds and hed favour a cash lump sum in 
place of the small annuity payments.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of
the case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance
and standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been
good industry practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
-reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
Sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that
scheme if
(a) the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition
is met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b) the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c) the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the
arrangement;The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and
make payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes
cashing-in of annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are
allowed to make these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mr Is position doesnt have a right to
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it
can, but only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance?
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and
treat them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of
their business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their
customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should
act in the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the
expense of other customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without
consideration of other factors or wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
- What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities.
- Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could
cause issues with commutation.
- Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable inthis case
1. Does Prudential have discretion to commute Mr Is annuity as requested? For
example:
- Is the value under £10,000?
- Is Mr I the legal owner of the annuity?
- Is Prudential the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If Prudential is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mr Is best
interests to allow commutation? For example:
- Would it expose him to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
- Would it affect other income that he relies on - such as state benefits being
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If Prudential was free to grant Mr Is request to commute the annuity and doing so
would have been in his best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Prudential to
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Prudential hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free
to allow Mr I to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have
discretion to commute his annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mr I to show that he would be worse off if he 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. For these reasons, and subject to the 
lump sum value (which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it 
wouldnt be against Mr Is personal interest to cash in the annuity.
Prudential has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mr I,
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be
difficult to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and
possibly to the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for
example:
- Offering commutation to Mr I simply because the annuity is under the limit means it would
have to offer the same option to all customers with small annuities. Otherwise, it
wouldnt be treating its customers consistently (and therefore fairly). It doesnt have
the systems and processes in place to facilitate significant numbers of commutations.
- Without appropriate processes and checks, customers could be exposed to the risk
of poor outcomes.
- Designing an appropriate framework to allow a commutation option would require
significant time, planning and regulator engagement (and presumably cost).
- Annuities are long-term commitments, backed by long-term and illiquid assets, so
cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Prudentials points are fair ones. I dont think
Prudential simply disregarded Mr Is interests in this case. Its position is based on its
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business
model more widely.
It seems to me that Prudential could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to
treat Mr Is case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for abusiness the size of Prudential. However, I acknowledge Prudentials difficulty here. Im not
persuaded there is reason in Mr Is case to treat him differently to other customers with
small annuities. (Its my understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mr I wishes to have a lump sum and Ive balanced this against the fact 
that commutation wasnt something Mr I had a right to. And while Prudential was free to 
allow his request, Im satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the 
way the annuity product was designed, the impact on Prudentials existing systems and 
processes, the interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Mr Is
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mr I in line with other
customers.
Mr I believes that the money should be returned to him as it is his right due to the allegation 
of fraud that he has made. However, Mr I received compensation to match what he lost out 
by being contracted out of SERPS  which was the result of his Prudential policy being set 
up  and so he cannot be compensated for this again. And it should be noted as he has 
been told before, that had the Prudential policy not existed, the money he refers to now 
would have formed part of his State Pension and wouldnt all be in his possession now to 
spend. Which is what he is contesting Prudential should do now. Hed still be receiving it in 
small regular payments just from a different source. And Mr I wouldnt have had a 25% tax 
free lump sum at age 50 (or at all) if the money had remained in SERPS. So Mr Is argument 
that he should receive a refund of the remaining pension into his pocket would not be putting 
him back in the position he wouldve been in had the annuity not existed. So I dont find this 
a compelling reason to say Prudential should allow him to cash in his annuity. 
Mr I has also said in response to a service complaint when we repeated the reasoning our 
investigator had replied upon that we shouldnt just be taking Prudentials reasons as valid 
and should be challenging them. And that other firms are able to offer cash in values and 
given the circumstances his annuity came about in, this should be an open and shut case.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities and
Im aware that some businesses are offering cash values to customers. But for the reasons 
explained above, this does not mean Prudential has treated Mr I unfairly in not offering him a 
cash value. Our role is to be impartial and weigh up all the evidence, legislation and what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so I do not think Prudential is 
required to offer Mr I a cash in value for all the reasons Ive explained in this decision.
If in the future Prudential changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, 
its possible Mr I may benefit from such a change. But in the present circumstances I dont 
think hes been treated unfairly.
I appreciate Mr I will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not
upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Simon HollingsheadOmbudsman