DRN-4309812
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC misled him about an account fee which meant his 
account became overdrawn.
What happened
Mr C says he opened a Lloyds account and the next day received a text message telling him 
the account was overdrawn. He says he was concerned the account had been 
compromised. Mr C says he spoke to Lloyds as he was unable to use internet banking and 
was told there was a mistake but was later told there was no mistake. He would like 
compensation for the distress and anxiety he was caused.
Lloyds says Mr C opened the account on 1 February 2023 which had a £10 a month fee. It 
says it correctly charged £0.34 on 2 February 2023 which is a fee in line with agreed account 
terms and conditions. Lloyds says there was no overdraft charge and sent Mr C the text 
message on 2 February 2023.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Lloyds made clear in the account terms and conditions that it would charge for the 
account and that a charge would be taken when a service was provided. The investigator 
also thought Lloyds had told Mr C there wasnt any transactions out of his account, but it 
would investigate.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and in summary says Lloyds has breached Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules and questions the accuracy of Lloyds systems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint in that I 
dont consider that Lloyds should pay Mr C compensation for what took place. But I accept it 
ought to have been able to tell him why his account was overdrawn.
Im satisfied that Mr C opened this account and would have agreed to the account terms and 
conditions. I can see that there is a charge for the account Mr C opened and that Lloyds 
says it will take most charges when it provides the service. So, I dont think Lloyds made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by making a charge, but I dont think Lloyds has explained why it 
was for £0.34 or why it made the charge before Mr C could fund the account.
We are not Lloyds regulator and its not our role to tell it how it operates its accounts. I make 
that clear as Mr C says Lloyds has breached FCA rules and regulations. It is not our role to 
decide if, for example, there is an error in Lloyds systems as Mr C suggests.
I have listened to the telephone call between the parties on 2 February 2023. I accept Lloyds 
was unable to tell Mr C why his account entered into an unarranged overdraft. I appreciate 
why Mr C says Lloyds ought to have been able to tell him the answer to that question. But 
Im satisfied that Lloyds did tell Mr C there were no transactions out of his account which 
was his concern about potential fraud. And that Lloyds fairly said it would investigate matters 
further. I accept Lloyds told Mr C it may have been an error which was later clarified not to 
have been an error.
Im satisfied that Lloyds made clear to Mr C some days later what the charge was for and 
that it hadnt made a mistake by charging it.
The key issue here is that Mr C says he should be paid compensation for what took place. I 
dont think compensation is justified here for the reasons I will explain. Im satisfied that 
Lloyds was entitled to make a charge but ought to have explained to Mr C what it was for 
when he called it. I find the amount in any event was relatively small and that Mr C didnt 
suffer any financial loss. And the important point here is that Lloyds explained to Mr C that 
there werent any payments out of his account which no doubt would have been his concern. 
Im also satisfied that Lloyds clarified the position within a short time period some four days 
later.
I appreciate Mr Cs questions about possible FCA regulation breaches but those are not 
matters this decision can address for the reasons I have explained. I find this now brings an 
end to what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman