DRN-3445645
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in April 2007.
 
Ms B paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Ms B says 
that she was told that she had to upgrade this account in order to get an overdraft facility.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Ms Bs complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold.
Ms B did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Ms Bs complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Ms B, but after giving this case a lot of thought, 
I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome that she was 
hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come to 
this conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Ms B was aware the URCA account was optional and 
whether she was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than 
not that she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee-free bank account with 
Halifax for a number of years. So, I think that Ms B wouldve been aware that free accounts 
existed and were an option for her.
Ms B says that prior to upgrading to the URCA online, she was told over the phone that she 
would need to upgrade to be eligible for an overdraft facility. Halifax does not have a record 
of this phone call, but I can see that Ms B already held an overdraft prior to the upgrade to 
the URCA. And Ms Bs overdraft limit did not change after shed agreed to upgrade her 
account to the URCA. I find it unlikely that Ms B would agree to upgrade her account to 
obtain an overdraft that she already held. I think it more likely that she upgraded her account 
online herself as she was attracted to the benefits that the account came with. One of these 
benefits was an interest free overdraft of up to £300, with a preferential interest rate when 
her balance was overdrawn by more than the above amount (up to her agreed limit). So I 
think it more likely than not that Ms B upgraded her account to get a better rate on her 
overdraft, rather than to get an overdraft facility that she already held.
This account was not recommended to Ms B. This means that Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the benefits was suitable for Ms B. But it did need to provide Ms B with enough 
information to decide this for herself. 
During the online upgrade process, I think that the major features and benefits of the 
account wouldve been highlighted. I say this because I think that Halifax wouldve wanted to 
make the account seem attractive to anyone looking to open an account on their website.
I note that Ms B used several of the benefits that the account came with and registered for 
some of the benefits as well. So I think that this shows that she was given at least some 
information about the benefits - and how to use them - that were included with the account.  
I accept that Ms B may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cant see anything about her circumstances at the time that makes 
me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given more 
information about it. 
I note Ms Bs comments that at the time the account was taken out, that she had a pre-
existing medical condition and therefore the travel insurance was not of use to her. But she 
has also explained that she did not travel. So I dont think Ms B wouldve been put off from 
upgrading to the URCA had the need to declare medical conditions to the travel insurer been 
made clearer to her during the sale of the account. 
I should explain that the account came with a package of benefits and it is not uncommon for 
someone to not be able to use all of the benefits that an account come with. Ultimately, 
Halifax needed to make Ms B aware of the benefits of the account and the options that she 
had. I am satisfied, albeit on balance (as Ive not seen the online application screens), that 
Halifax did give Ms B information about the account, its benefits, and the other accounts that 
were available to her. And it was down to Ms B to decide for herself as to whether she 
wanted the URCA account and whether the package would be a good fit for her 
circumstances. 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA account was mis-sold to 
Ms B. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Ms B the 
account fees that she has been charged whilst she held the URCA account. 
I understand that this may be frustrating to Ms B, as she strongly feels that her account was 
mis-sold. I also understand that with the benefit of hindsight, the URCA account may not 
have represented good value for money for her. But I cant uphold her complaint due to this. 
I can only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if I thought it was sold 
incorrectly. And for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman