DRN-4237359
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his application for an Advance Account.
What happened
Mr B applied online to HSBC for an Advance Account. His application was reviewed but then 
declined by HSBC. Mr B wasnt happy about this because HSBC staff with whom hed 
spoken had told him that his application would be successful. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr B and explained that they take several factors into consideration 
when assessing account applications. HSBC also said that, in this instance, Mr B didnt meet 
their criteria to be offered an Advance Account. However, HSBC did confirm that theyd be 
willing to offer Mr B a standard current account. Mr B wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, 
so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold this complaint. Mr B 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr B has stated on several occasions that he feels 
HSBC declined his application for an Advance Account solely on the basis of his credit 
score. And Mr B feels that his credit score is sufficiently high for this to not be a valid reason.
However, its been explained to Mr B by both HSBC and our investigator that his belief in this 
regard is incorrect. For example, while Mr B asserts that HSBCs response to his complaint 
confirms that his credit score was the sole determent factor, HSBCs response letter actually 
reads as follows:
When you apply for a product with us, we take a number of factors into 
consideration, information provided on your application, information we may hold on 
our system and information we may obtain from Credit Reference Agencies. Based 
on the information we have reviewed, we are unable to offer you an Advance 
Account but we are able to offer you a Bank Account.
The above clearly explains that HSBC took several factors into account when assessing the 
application submitted by Mr B. These factors include not only information obtained from 
credit reference agencies, but also information provided by Mr B on his application as well as 
information that HSBC may already have held about Mr B on their systems.
Additionally, even if was the case that HSBC based their decision solely on information 
present on Mr Bs credit file, that would be a decision that Im satisfied HSBC would fairly 
and reasonably be entitled to make. And I say this because its entirely at the discretion of a 
business such as HSBC whether theyre willing to offer an account to an applicant or not.
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC staff in the branch he visited before making the application 
online indicated to him before he made his application that it would be successful. But I feel 
it stands to reason that a member of branch staff is unable to provide a 100% guarantee that 
an application submitted online will be approved  because that member of branch staff isnt 
responsible for assessing and deciding online applications.
HSBC have apologised to Mr B for their member of staff giving him a false expectation that 
his application would be approved. And theyve also confirmed that feedback about the 
mistake has been provided to the branch in question to mitigate against similar errors being 
made moving forwards. This seems to me to be a reasonable response to this issue, and I 
dont feel that HSBC need to take a further or continuing action in this regard.
Mr B is also unhappy that HSBC wont remove the credit search relating to the application 
from his credit file. But Mr B did apply for an Advance Account, and the assessment of that 
application included a credit search. And the nature of applications is that they can 
sometimes be unsuccessful. HSBC have an obligation to make accurate reports to the credit 
reference agencies. And because they did conduct a credit check on Mr B as part of the 
application assessment process, I feel its fair that this credit check should remain on Mr Bs 
credit file  because its an accurate reflection of what took place.
All of which means that I feel that the response that HSBC have already issued to Mr B 
about this complaint, including the apology for the incorrect information provided by their 
branch staff and their explanation of why his Advance Account application wasnt successful, 
already represents a fair resolution to whats happened here. And it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further or alterative action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman