DRN-2752218
The complaint
Mr T says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream hasnt administered a refund of 
interest and charges correctly. Mr T would like this paid to him directly rather than it being 
used to reduce his outstanding balance. 
What happened
Mr T borrowed four instalment loans from Lending Stream between December 2017 and 
March 2018. 
Lending Stream contacted Mr T as part of a review of its lending practices. It said that it 
didnt follow its usual processes when it approved the first loan. Because of this it said it 
would refund the interest and charges he paid on this loan (plus interest) and remove any 
negative information about it from his credit file. 
Lending Stream went on to say that Mr T hadnt fully repaid the capital he borrowed on loans 
3 and 4. Because of this Lending Stream said it would reduce the outstanding balance Mr T 
owed on loans 3 and 4 by the refund it thought he should receive for loan 1. 
Mr T doesnt agree with this. He thinks that he should be paid the refund directly rather than 
it being used to reduce what he owes. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Lending Stream had calculated and 
applied the refund of interest in the same way the Financial Ombudsman Service would 
have recommended if it had upheld a complaint about irresponsible lending. So, he didnt 
recommend that Lending Stream should do anything different. 
Mr T requested that his complaint was considered by an ombudsman. The complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T hasnt made a complaint about irresponsible lending. So, I havent considered if any of 
the lending was lent responsibly or not. Ive only considered the complaint Mr T has made 
about how Lending Stream has processed the refund of interest it says Mr T is due under its 
business review. 
But as our adjudicator said, if I were to uphold a complaint about irresponsible lending I 
would make a compensation award on the same basis that Lending Stream has offered to 
refund interest as part of the review it has made. 
This is because a compensation award should put a consumer, as far as possible, back in 
the position they would be in had Lending Stream acted correctly. So, any interest and 
charges that Mr T has paid, when a loan shouldnt have been approved, should be returned 
to him. 
But Mr T should also repay any outstanding capital amounts owed as he shouldnt have 
received these. So, it is fair that any compensation is used to firstly repay any outstanding 
capital amounts. Which is what is happening here. 
So I think it is reasonable, in this case that the refund is used to reduce the amount Mr T 
owes. And I dont think Mr T should be paid this money directly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman