DRN-2960460
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them two mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policies.
The MPPI policies were originally sold by Cheltenham and Gloucester (C&G) but Lloyds has 
responsibility for the sales, and for this complaint. So, Ill refer to Lloyds in my decision.
What happened
The first MPPI policy was sold in 1999 and covered both Mr and Mrs L alongside their joint 
mortgage.
The second policy was sold in 2003, when Mr and Mrs L took out a further advance on their 
mortgage  this policy covered Mrs L.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with this, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for them as they clearly feel very strongly about their complaint, so Ill explain 
the reasons why below.
Initially, when Mr and Mrs L first brought their complaint to us, they said that they had no 
recollection of being sold the MPPI policies  they were both in secure, good employment, 
and also had savings  so they wouldve refused to take MPPI. 
Then, after receiving our adjudicators assessment of their complaint, they say they were 
convinced by the bank that getting the mortgage relied upon them taking out the MPPI  but 
this wouldnt be reflected in the paperwork.
I cant know what was said at the time the policies were sold  and it doesnt surprise me 
that Mr and Mrs Ls recollections have varied  we are after all, talking about sales that took 
place around 20 years ago or more. So, I have to rely on the information I do have available 
 and Lloyds has provided paperwork from both sales.
The paperwork that Lloyds has provided includes the original mortgage application, the 
subsequent further advance application, and the paperwork for both MPPI policies. The 
mortgage and further advance application both show that MPPI is an optional product (and 
has been selected), and that a separate application would need to be completed in order to 
take it out  and all the paperwork has been signed by Mr and Mrs L.
So, with this in mind, I think that Lloyds did make it clear that the MPPI policies were optional 
 and Mr and Mrs L chose to take them out. And even if they had been told differently, it was 
up to them to make sure they understood what they were signing  they were entering in to 
an important financial contract  and I think that they could have questioned why they were 
told differently to what the paperwork said.
Lloyds recommended both MPPI policies  so it needed to make sure that they were right for 
Mr and Mrs L, and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances, I think that the policies 
were. I understand that Mr and Mrs L have said that they were both in secure employment 
and had sick pay and savings they could rely on  but MPPI is designed to pay out against 
the unknown. The policies also paid out for longer, and on top of, any sick pay they were 
both entitled to, and could also have protected their savings for other expenses.
It is possible that some of the information Lloyds provided about the MPPI policies wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been  but Mr and Mrs L dont appear to have been affected by any of 
the things that the policy didnt cover  so I dont think that better information wouldve 
affected their decision to take out the policies.
Ive taken in to account all of Mr and Mrs Ls comments, including what they have said about 
Lloyds track record of mis-selling, and their question about how many MPPI policies were 
mis-sold by the particular branch they banked with. But neither of these points change my 
decision  I have looked at this complaint on its own individual set of circumstances.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen these dates dont apply to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage account, or the further advance 
they took, and so these rules and guidance dont apply. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman