DRN-3128711
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the customer service theyve received in relation to the annual 
travel insurance policy from Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA).
.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O held an annual travel insurance policy, which began in June 2019 and ended 
in June 2020. On 2 March 2020, they travelled to a country Ill call A for a holiday. They were 
due to fly back on 30 April 2020. But on 23 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised all UK 
nationals abroad to return to the UK.
So Mr and Mrs O tried to make arrangements to cut short their trip. But they were only able 
to find business class flights at a significantly higher price. Mr O called IPA to establish 
whether not he and Mrs O would be covered for these costs under their policy. IPA told Mr O 
that it couldnt confirm cover over the phone, but that it would set-up a claim and it directed 
Mr O to get in touch with its claims team. Mr O did as IPA had suggested but didnt get a call 
back. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs O were able to rebook their original return flight and returned to 
the UK on 28 March 2020.
IPA got in touch with Mr and Mrs O on 23 April 2020. It told Mr and Mrs O that it still wouldnt 
have been able to confirm whether any claim wouldve been payable unless a claim had 
been made. Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with the service they received and they 
complained. IPA acknowledged it hadnt responded to Mr and Mrs Os enquiry in a timely 
way and so it offered to pay them compensation of £50 to recognise this.
Mr and Mrs O renewed their travel insurance policy in June 2020 for another year. They felt 
though that IPA should offer them a pro-rata refund of premium for the period between 
March and June 2020, when the UK had been in lockdown, as they hadnt been able to 
travel. And they also felt that IPA should offer them a pro-rata refund for the periods the UK 
was in lockdown following the renewal in June 2020.
IPA agreed to offer a pro-rata refund of premium for both policies. However, it told Mr and 
Mrs O that this was conditional on them cancelling the contracts. Mr and Mrs O decided 
against doing so and so IPA concluded that no premium refunds were due.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with the service theyd received from IPA and they asked us to 
look into their complaint points. Broadly, they felt that IPA ought to have been in a position to 
confirm cover when they first called. They said they had curtailment expenses which hadnt 
been considered. They felt theyd been put at risk when they had to go to the airport to 
rearrange their flights due to the failure of their airline to respond and the closure of travel 
agents. And they maintained that IPA should pay a pro-rata refund of premium without 
condition.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Os complaint should be upheld. She didnt think IPA 
could reasonably be expected to confirm cover before claims paperwork had been submitted 
and considered. But she thought the policy booklet set out what was and wasnt covered. 
She said that if Mr and Mrs O had any curtailment expenses they wished to claim for, theyd 
need to raise these with IPA for it to consider. She acknowledged that IPA hadnt provided 
the level of service shed have expected it to. But she felt £50 compensation was a fair 
amount to reflect Mr and Mrs Os trouble and upset. And she considered that it was fair for 
IPA to decline to pay Mr and Mrs O pro-rata refunds of premiums for both their 2019-20 and 
2020-21 policies given theyd chosen not to cancel them.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed and Ive summarised Mr Os detailed responses to our investigator:
They didnt feel the investigator had followed our published guidance relating to 
compensatory awards;
Theyd taken all steps to communicate with IPA and hadnt received a response. This 
meant theyd had to take action and put their health at risk;
Insurers generally require policyholders to call to confirm cover before incurring 
costs:
IPA couldve contacted the airline on their behalf;
They questioned who else they were supposed to ask in the event an insurer refuses 
to confirm cover. If they had had to take the business class flight, they couldve 
incurred costs of £10,000 and all of the risk wouldve been placed on them;
Cancelling the policies wouldve had an adverse impact on them, which is why they 
didnt do it. They felt that if someone sells something a person is unable to use, a 
partial refund should be offered;
They said that IPA had originally offered a pro-rata refund for the period March  
June 2020 as a goodwill gesture, but this had later been made conditional on 
cancellation. They felt the original offer should be honoured;
Given the lockdown situations in 2020, they didnt feel that standard conditions 
should apply to either policy;
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs O, Ive decided IPAs offer to pay 
them £50 compensation is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs O that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint and their detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent 
us. In making my decision though, I havent commented on each and every point theyve 
raised and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the 
key issues.
IPAs handling of Mr and Mrs Os enquiry
Its common ground that when Mr O first called IPA on 24 March 2020, he was directed to 
call the claims team. No cover was confirmed at this time and indeed, Mr O says the claims 
team never returned a message hed left it. I dont doubt how frustrating this was for Mr and 
Mrs O at an already stressful time. I appreciate that as a result of both the pandemic and the 
changes in travel restrictions across the world, flights were being cancelled and repatriation 
flights were being rapidly booked-up. So I understand how worrying it mustve been for Mr and Mrs O when they werent able to 
get through to their airline and were concerned that theyd need to pay for business class 
flights. Im aware too that they were worried whether theyd be able to access additional 
supplies of Mrs Os medication if theyd had to remain in A. I sympathise with their position 
and I entirely appreciate why they wanted to know whether any costs they incurred would be 
met.
However, I dont think it was unreasonable for IPA to not be in a position to confirm whether 
or not any potential claim would be covered at this point. The policy booklet sets out what a 
policyholder should do if they need to make a claim and the first direction is to check the 
appropriate section in the policy booklet to see what is and isnt covered. It also states that 
policyholders must supply claims evidence (such as reports and invoices) to IPA for it to 
consider. 
In this case, the curtailment section of the policy didnt strictly include cover for curtailment 
due to changes in FCDO advice (although it appears from later communications with Mr O 
that it was asking policyholders to make claims and submit evidence for consideration).  But 
Im not persuaded that IPA couldve given Mr O a clear and definitive answer about whether 
or not any costs would be met at this point. And even if it had indicated that it was 
considering curtailment claims in these circumstances, any assessment of claims would be 
dependent on the evidence subsequently supplied to confirm whether or not those claims 
would be paid. As such then, I dont think it was unreasonable for IPA to direct Mr and Mrs O 
to make a curtailment claim so that it could go on to assess whether any costs they incurred 
would be met.
I note though that in this case, Mr and Mrs O were able to rearrange their flight at seemingly 
no additional cost to them. So I dont think theyve lost out financially here in any event.
It is clear though that IPAs claims team took around a month to contact Mr and Mrs O. Like 
the investigator, I dont think this delay was reasonable and Im pleased that IPA recognised 
this and offered Mr and Mrs O £50 compensation. I too think this is a fair and reasonable 
amount to reflect some delay in IPAs response to Mr and Mrs O. I appreciate Mr and Mrs O 
feel this amount is insufficient and that further compensation should be due. 
However, it seems to me that many of Mr and Mrs Os worries while they were trying to 
arrange a new flight home were down to their airline being unresponsive. IPA isnt 
responsible for the airlines actions. And while I appreciate it was stressful for Mr and Mrs O 
having to visit a crowded airport and then having to queue without knowing whether or not 
theyd be able to board their flight, these were also things which werent within IPAs power 
to control.  And Ive explained above why I dont think IPA was in a position to confirm cover 
when Mr O called. So in the round, Im satisfied £50 is fair compensation to reflect the 
material distress IPAs actions in failing to get in touch until 23 April 2020 caused Mr and Mrs 
O.
Should IPA pay Mr and Mrs O pro-rata refunds of their policy premiums?
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. She also set out the rules, regulations and law. I agree those 
are the relevant considerations which apply to specific circumstances of this case. She also 
explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to 
bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And she explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contracts of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started in June 2019 and June 
2020 and the policies covered various risks during that time. The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She explained that if Mr and Mrs O had cancelled the policies, shed have expected IPA to 
provide them with a pro-rata refund. But as they hadnt cancelled the policies, she didnt 
think IPA needed to pay any refunds. I appreciate Mr and Mrs O strongly disagree on this 
point, so Ive explored this further.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
If this insurance does not meet your needs, we will cancel your Policy providing you return it 
to us within 15 days of issue and you have not already taken your trip or intend to make a 
claim. We will refund your premium in full, but we will not refund it, or any part of your 
premium, after the 15 days have passed.
So the contract of insurance says that IPA doesnt have to pay any refund of a policyholders 
premium after the 15 day period has ended. This means that under the contract, IPA was 
under no obligation to offer any premium refund. However, it agreed to offer pro-rated 
refunds for both policies if they were cancelled. Im satisfied this was a fair and reasonable 
position for IPA to take.
In this case though, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Os contracts of insurance with IPA 
werent cancelled. Indeed, Mr and Mrs O have told us that they didnt cancel either the 2019-
20 or 2020-21 policies because to do so wouldve impacted adversely on them financially. 
This means that whether or not the UK was in lockdown and whether travel restrictions 
applied, IPA was still covering the risk of Mr and Mrs O making claims under either or both of 
the policies for any future trips they booked or planned to take during the relevant periods of 
cover. To offer pro-rata refunds of premium for these periods would effectively mean that 
IPA would be covering Mr and Mrs O for free, which I wouldnt reasonably expect it to do. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs O say that IPA initially offered a pro-rata refund for the March  June 
2020 period without condition. But as its subsequent offer was already more favourable than 
both the relevant regulations and the policy terms, I think it was entitled to ultimately decide 
that it required the policies to be cancelled prior to paying any such refund. Especially as Mr 
and Mrs O continued to benefit from cover during this time.
Overall then, I find that IPA doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs O any refund of premium.
Curtailment costs
Mr and Mrs O have let us know about costs they incurred in the curtailment of their trip. 
However, it isnt clear that theyve made a claim to IPA for these costs for it to consider. Its 
open to them to do so. If theyre unhappy with any assessment of their claim, they may be 
able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that IPAs offer to pay Mr and Mrs O 
£50 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman