DRN-2188559
The complaint
Miss B complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to her irresponsibly. Miss B
says that the way information was requested about her income and expenditure didnt reveal
her actual financial position. Miss B also feels Drafty provided misleading literature
before it lent, and that the suspension of her account has affected her credit score.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part 
of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Miss B approached Drafty for a running credit facility in August 2018. Miss B was given a
facility with a £500 credit limit. The limit was increased on three occasions. The account
statement sent to Miss B in April 2019 shows that the limit by that point had reached £850.
Miss B says she has encountered some problems repaying the facility and I can see that,
based on the information given to us by Drafty, an outstanding balance remains.
This was a running credit account where a consumer could either request funds up to their
agreed credit limit in one go, or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Bs complaint. He thought the checks Drafty carried
out before granting this facility were proportionate. So, he didnt think it was wrong to have
initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve completed further checks before it
increased Miss Bs credit limit to £850. But having looked at the bank statements and credit
file provided by Miss B, he didnt think Drafty was wrong to increase the credit limit to £850
or to continue to lend. So, not doing further checks ultimately hadnt made any difference, or
left Miss B worse off.
Drafty appears to have agreed with the adjudicators view. However, Miss B didnt, saying
that:
the facility shouldnt have been approved as she had a high level of debt which she
was living off;
had more checks been completed, Drafty wouldve known she had a low credit score
and was living off her credit cards;
Drafty didnt consider how long it would take her to repay the balance or whether she
could afford to repay the facility.
As no agreement was reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the lending was approved.
And having done so Im intending to partly uphold the complaint.
When the facility was approved, Drafty needed to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer would be able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without
it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply, Drafty had to gather enough
information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks, it did list things a lender could
consider before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders checks to be
proportionate. And any checks had to consider a number of different things, such as how
much was being lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
To be clear, Miss B wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay all of what she
borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. She was given a facility where there
was an expectation that shed repay what she borrowed plus the interest due within a period
of at least 12 months. So overall, I think that this means the checks Drafty carried out had to
provide enough information for it to be able to understand whether Miss B would likely be
able to service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period.
Initially, Miss B was granted a running credit facility with a £500 limit. According to the credit
agreement, had she drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, and
run the facility for 12 months, she wouldve paid a total of £674.12. This means Miss B was
expected to make a monthly repayment of around £56 per month.
Before granting the facility, Drafty asked Miss B about her monthly income and expenditure.
Miss B confirmed her monthly income was £1,333 and her monthly expenditure was £700.
Drafty has also told us that it completed an internal affordability assessment and appears to
have added a further £94 on top of Miss Bs declared monthly expenditure. It did this to
understand what repayment amount she could comfortably afford. Drafty also completed a
credit check. Based on the information that Drafty gathered, it seemed that Miss B would be
able to afford the repayments she was committed to making.
At the start of the lending relationship, it wouldnt be unreasonable for Drafty to have relied
on the information it was provided. And the information Miss B declared about her
circumstances, coupled with the results of her credit check, suggested she could afford to
service the facility she applied for.
I understand Miss B feels that the categories for expenditure payments used by Drafty,
wouldnt reflect her actual financial position. But I think that at this stage Drafty was entitled
to rely on what Miss B declared and didnt need to complete a full financial review or verify
what it was being told.
I realise that Miss B feels that Drafty shouldve seen from her credit report she had a high
level of debt. But the information a consumer might see when they request a copy of their
credit file might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small
portion of the credit file, some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not
be up to date. From what I can see, the credit information that Drafty obtained didnt suggest
that it was wrong to lend because of a significant reliance on credit that wouldve meant
Miss B wasnt able to afford and sustain repayments.Ive also looked at how Miss B used the facility with a view to see if there was a point at
which Drafty should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or
otherwise harmful. This is because, although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have provided
the facility, that wasnt the end of its obligation to Miss B.
When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA). The FCA had issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be
expected from lenders when granting these types of loans.
Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
In practice this meant Drafty needed to be mindful of how Miss B used the facility in order to
step in if and when she showed signs of possible financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought it wouldve been proportionate for Drafty to have carried out some
further checks on Miss Bs financial position when the credit limit was increased to £850 over
six months into the lending relationship.
By this point Miss B had drawn down nine times and was generally making what appears to
have been repayments at or around the minimum repayment. And even though funds were
not drawn down each month, at the same time Miss B also wasnt making headway into
repaying what she owed. So, I think by March 2019 Drafty needed to verify with Miss B
whether she was in a position to take on further drawdowns.
I think the checks needed to go beyond what Drafty was carrying out at this time, which
seemed to rely on information Miss B provided and information it had obtained from credit
reference agencies. I think by now it wouldve been reasonable of Drafty to have verified
what Miss B was saying and it couldve gone about doing that in a number of ways. It 
couldve asked for evidence of her income and outgoings via the way of copies of bills. Or as 
Ive done here, it couldve asked to see copies of her bank statements.
Miss B has given this service copies of her bank statements from around the time the credit
limit increased to £850. From the bank statements it looks like her income had increased
from what she initially declared to Drafty when the facility was granted (£1,333) to around
£1,490 by April 2019. So its likely, had proportionate checks been carried out, that Drafty
wouldve confirmed this.
I can also see that Miss B had regular commitments to cover items such as car insurance,
credit cards, a mobile phone and car finance. But there dont appear to have been any
significant housing or food costs. Overall, and just looking at the bank statements, it may
have appeared that Miss B could indeed to take on further borrowing from Drafty.
However, as Ive said above, the bank statements were one of the methods that Drafty
couldve used and actually, I think at this time Miss B couldnt afford to sustainably take on
any further debt and therefore any further credit limit increase.
Looking at Miss Bs credit file she had a significant amount of outstanding debt on a number
of different types of credit account, including at least on 5 credit cards, multiple store cards /
and or catalogue shopping accounts as well as car finance. It seems that at the time, the
amount she owed was equal to or greater than her annual income. In my view Miss B was
already over indebted and therefore couldnt afford to take on any further credit.And from the bank statements it seems that Miss B was only making the minimal 
repayments towards these credit accounts. And as Ive already said above Miss B appeared
to make minimal repayments towards Drafty as well. So, it was therefore likely that if Drafty
further extended credit to Miss B shed continue to make close to the minimum repayment to
Drafty and her other credit providers  which in my view shows that she wasnt in a position
to sustainably repay what shed borrowed from Drafty over a reasonable period of time.
Overall, therefore, I dont think Drafty shouldve allowed the final credit limit increase to £850
in March 2019 because Miss B was already over indebted with other lenders, and by further
increasing her credit limit it was pushing her further into debt and I dont think any
repayments that were due to be made after this date were sustainable for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drafty didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. Miss B responded 
saying she agreed with the provisional decision but she also made the following points;
When Miss B initially raised her complaint with Drafty, it immediately made the 
decision to reduce her credit limit. However, this has impacted Miss Bs credit rating. 
Since the complaint Drafty has reported that that Miss Bs credit limit is £690 to the 
Credit Reference Agencies. But, the amount she owed Drafty was more than this and 
so her credit file showed that she was above her credit limit.
Miss B wanted Drafty to suspend the account  but to keep her credit limit. For this 
she wants a payment for compensation for the effect on her credit file. 
I can see Drafty took the decision to decrease Miss Bs credit limit following her complaint. 
Draftys decision to do this could have been for a number of reasons but it was likely 
because it wasnt prepared to extend the amount of credit to Miss B that it previously had 
done. Especially if Miss Bs financial position improved and she had wanted to start using 
the facility again. 
Miss Bs credit agreement allows Drafty to reduce her credit limit at any point  so the fact 
the credit limit was reduced isnt something that I can say is an error. And Drafty could do so 
without warning. However, it may have been unfair, if as a result of the reduced credit limit 
Miss B was charged late fees and over limit charges. 
Ive taken a look at the two account statements that were produced after the credit limit 
decrease (November and October 2019) and it doesnt appear that any additional charges 
were levied. But I cant rule out that these fees were charged by Drafty but at a later date. In 
any event, given the errors that I think Drafty has made  any of these over limit fees (if they 
were charged) will now need to be refunded.
   
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to decrease the credit limit. But I can 
understand why Miss B has concerns that this has affected her credit file, including her 
utilisation and credit score. It is also likely, that had the account been suspended, this 
wouldve been reported to the credit agencies and if Miss B had entered into a repayment 
plan this wouldve again been reported to the credit reference agencies. Both of which may 
have impacted her credit score. 
Miss B has provided a screen shot of her credit file which shows that she is over her credit 
limit  which seems to be a factually correct, especially if sufficient payments have not yet 
been made to bring her account balance under the credit limit. Ive thought about Miss Bs request for compensation, but in this case, I dont think I can say an award should be made 
because Drafty was entitled to reduce the credit limit. 
In my provision decision, I recommended that Drafty repay any interest and charges added 
to Miss Bs facility from the final credit limit increase in March 2019 until present. And that 
Drafty remove any adverse information about the facility from March 2019. So, this will 
include any negative information reported as a result of Miss B being over her accounts 
credit limit.
So, Ive reached the same conclusions  that Drafty shouldve have allowed any further 
drawdowns from and including the March 2019 credit limit increase. Ive outlined below what 
Drafty needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Drafty should carry out the following. If Drafty has sold the 
outstanding debt it can if it wishes by this back and then carry out the below. If however, this 
isnt possible, then Drafty will need to work with the third party to achieve the same results 
as below;
remove any unpaid interest, fees and charges from the current outstanding balance 
which will include any charges from the credit limit increase in March 2019 (and any 
charges leived as a result of Miss B being above her credit limit) 
Then rework the account and apply all payments made by Miss B to date as if they 
had gone towards the outstanding principal balance. If Miss B has already paid 
enough to Drafty to clear her outsatnding balance then any overpayment should be 
refunded to her along with 8% simple interest from the date of the payment to the 
date of settlement*.
However, after re-working the account if an outstanding principal balance remains, 
then Drafty and Miss B should try and come to a mutual agreement as to how the 
remainder of the balance should be repaid. But Id remind Drafty of its obligation to 
treat Miss B fairly;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file from when the credit 
limit increased in March 2019 (including that Miss B was above the credit limit of the 
account).
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold Miss Bs 
complaint.
Gain Credit LLC put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman