DRN-3131342
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the quality of repairs carried out by his motor insurance provider 
EUI Limited trading as Admiral (Admiral).
I will refer to Admiral throughout this decision when referring to it or any of its agents.
What happened
Mr M was involved in an accident. He explained he was traveling at a low speed when the 
car ahead of him broke suddenly. Mr M applied his brakes but was unable to avoid hitting 
the car in front.
A claim was made under Mr Ms motor insurance and repairs were carried out. Mr M has 
explained that when the car was returned to him there was still damage not apparent before 
the accident that hadnt been repaired. Mr M has also stated that there were additional 
warning lights showing on the dash board that werent showing when his car was taken to 
the repairing garage.
Admirals repairing garage explained that it repaired the damage that was caused in the 
accident and that none of the remaining issues were as a result of the incident.  
Mr M explained his car passed a MOT before the accident and that none of the issues now 
showing were picked up on at that time. Mr M also took his car to a main dealer who did an 
overall visual inspection of the car. Mr M provided this information to Admiral for 
consideration.
Admirals in-house engineer looked at the evidence provided by Mr M. It said that the main 
dealer had not specifically identified any of the issues Mr M had raised as being related to 
the accident. As the information provided by Mr M didnt contradict Admirals previous view, 
Admiral didnt change its stance and refused to do anything more.
Our Investor considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said the 
explanation provided by Admiral was fair and Mr M had not proven that any of the 
outstanding issues with his car were related to the accident.
Mr M disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms motor insurance covers him for repairs to his car following an accident. The policy 
limits Mr M to claims related to the accident alone and does not cover any non-accident 
related damage.
Considering Mr Ms explanation of the accident circumstances I would not have expected 
extensive damage to have been caused to his car. But I accept that even low impact 
accidents can and often do cause unexpected damage. 
I have considered the available evidence. As Mr M maintained that the damage to his car 
wasnt apparent before the accident it was agreed that a main dealer would inspect the car. 
The inspection produced a video overview of Mr Ms car that Admirals engineer said didnt 
show any of the outstanding damage was a result of the accident. I have also looked at the 
video and agree it does not provide any evidence to support the damage taking place during 
the accident.
Mr M has further said that a MOT was carried out on his car close to the accident date and it 
didnt highlight any of the issues he is now finding with his car. The car was also returned to 
him from the garage with more warning lights then it had when the car was taken to the 
garage.
I have thought about what Mr M has said, but the MOT was carried out around two months 
before the accident, so I dont think it offers a good indication that the problems Mr M found 
with his car were as a result of the accident.
While I accept Mr Ms car may have been returned to him with more warning lights apparent 
on the dashboard, I have not seen evidence that the lights were showing as a result of 
damage caused to Mr Ms car either during the accident or repairs carried out by Admiral.
I dont have enough evidence to show the remaining problems with Mr Ms car are as a 
result of the accident or repairs carried out by Admiral. So, I cant ask it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman