DRN-4386392
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In May 2022, Ms M saw a friend on a social media website posting about an app they had 
been using to make money. The app allowed users to deposit money to unlock tasks, which 
were typically visiting or liking products on an online marketplace, and then to earn money 
by completing those tasks. Each completed task would earn the user a small payment and, 
by depositing larger amounts, users could unlock tasks that earned larger payments. Ms M 
was interested in making some extra money so signed up to the app and made two 
payments to deposit money into it, as directed to by someone she understood to be working 
for the company running the app.
Ms M has said the payments she made were to buy cryptocurrency, which was then 
deposited into her balance which she could see on the app. Ive set out the payments Ms M 
made below:
Date Amount
30 May 2022 £4,000
30 May 2022 £100
Unfortunately, we now know the app and the company running it were a scam.
The scam was uncovered when a group chat where users could discuss the app was muted, 
the company running the app stopped responding to messages and the app disappeared. 
Ms M then reported the payments she had made to Lloyds and asked it to refund the money 
she had lost.
Lloyds investigated and accepted that it could have done more to protect Ms M and 
intervened when she made the first payment, as it was out of character for her. But it also 
felt Ms M could have done more to check who she was paying, and so should share some 
responsibility. And, as the bank the money was sent to had also accepted some 
responsibility and refunded one third of the money she lost, Lloyds also refunded one third of 
the money Ms M had lost. Ms M wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred a 
complaint to our service.
I sent Ms M and Lloyds a provisional decision on 1 September 2023, setting out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Are the payments covered by the CRM code?
Ive first considered whether the CRM code applies to the payments Ms M made as a result 
of this scam.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) is a 
voluntary code Lloyds has signed up to. It sets out a number of circumstances in which firms 
are required to reimburse customers who have been the victims of certain types of scams. 
But it only covers certain types of payments where a customer paid funds to another person 
for what they thought were legitimate purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent.
Ms M has said the payments she made were to buy cryptocurrency, which was then added 
to her balance in the app. I recognise that she only did this under the direction of the 
scammer. But the buying of cryptocurrency isnt one of the types of payments covered by the 
code. And the purchase of the cryptocurrency itself appears to have been genuine, as Ms M 
appears to have actually bought cryptocurrency before sending it on to the scammer. So the 
way the CRM code is written means that I dont think it applies to these payments.
Did Lloyds do enough to protect Ms M?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Ms M 
accepts she made the payments here. So while I recognise she didnt intend for the money 
to go to scammers, she did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in law is 
that Lloyds was obliged to follow her instructions and make the payments. So Ms M isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
Even though I dont think the payments Ms M made are covered by the CRM code, the 
regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether Lloyds should have identified that Ms M was potentially 
at risk of fraud as a result of these payments.
Lloyds has accepted that the first payment Ms M made of £4,000 was out of character for 
her. So I think it should have intervened and made additional checks before allowing it to go 
through. And, if it had done so, I think the scam would have been uncovered and Ms M 
wouldnt have made the payments or lost any money. And so I think it would be fair for 
Lloyds to bear some responsibility for the money Ms M lost.
Should Ms M bear some responsibility for the money she lost?
Ive also thought about whether Ms M should bear some responsibility for the money she 
lost. And while I appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam, I think there were a number 
of things about it should have caused her significant concern.Ms M says she found out about the app when a friend of hers on a social media website was 
posting about it. But she doesnt appear to have ever met this friend in person, and she 
hasnt given us much detail about their relationship from before this scam. So I dont think it 
was reasonable to pay such a large amount of money to other people shed never met, 
based on the recommendation of this friend, without doing significant further checks into the 
app first.
Ms M doesnt appear to have asked for any proof, or been sent any evidence, that the 
people she was speaking to were connected to the company running the app. The company 
documents shes sent us dont relate to the company shes told us she thought was running 
the app. And she doesnt appear to have asked for or seen any evidence that her friend had 
successfully withdrawn any money from the app.
Ms M has said she thought she was working for the company that was running the app. But 
she doesnt appear to have been sent any paperwork or documentation about her 
employment or the work she would be doing for the company  which I think should have 
caused her significant concern.
Ms M was also asked to send money to an individual, rather than directly to the company 
she thought she was working for  which I think would be unusual for a legitimate company. 
And she was asked to mislead Lloyds about the reason for the payments  which I think 
should have caused her concern.
And so I think it would be fair for Ms M to bear some responsibility for the money she lost.
Overall then, I think it would be fair for Ms M and Lloyds to share responsibility for the money 
she lost.
Ms M has already been refunded two-thirds of the money she lost  one third from Lloyds 
and one third from the bank the money was sent to. And I think this represents a fair sharing 
of the responsibility. So I dont think it would be fair to require Lloyds to refund any more than 
it has already.
Did Lloyds do enough to try to recover the money Ms M lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
Lloyds evidence shows it contacted the bank the money was sent to within a reasonable 
amount of time, to try to recover the money Ms M had lost. So I think it has done all wed 
expect it to do to try to recover the money. And, particularly as the payments were made 
more than a week before Lloyds was told of the scam and scammers usually move money 
on immediately to avoid it being traced or recovered, I dont think anything Lloyds could 
reasonably have been expected to do would have led to the money being recovered.
I said Id consider anything further Ms M and Lloyds sent in following the provisional 
decision, provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ms M replied to the provisional decision saying she didnt agree, but didnt send in any 
further evidence or arguments to be considered. And Lloyds didnt send in anything further 
following the provisional decision.
As neither Ms M not Lloyds sent in any further evidence or arguments, I still think the 
conclusions I reached in the provisional decision are correct  and for the same reasons.
I still think it would be fair for Ms M and Lloyds to share responsibility for the money she lost, 
and that the amount Ms M has already been refunded represents a fair sharing of the 
responsibility. So I dont think it would be fair to require Lloyds to refund any more than it has 
already.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman