DRN-3237258
The complaint
Mr B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc, trading as Petplan, unfairly applied certain 
exclusions to his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mr B bought pet insurance for his dog to cover the cost of any injuries or illnesses. 
As his dog had received treatment for an allergy to flea bites before he bought the policy, it 
contained a number of exclusions. Between October 2020 and June 2021 Mr B made 
several claims for the cost of treatment his dog had received for a skin allergy. Allianz paid 
those claims. But in July 2021 it told Mr B it had paid those claims in error and no further 
claims for the same condition would be paid as it was excluded under his policy. Mr B 
complained.
Allianz said the exclusions to Mr Bs policy had been applied correctly. It said when the 
policy was set up, any pre-existing conditions had been excluded. As had flea bite allergy 
and/or flea bite dermatitis (FAD) and skin disorders. It said it wouldnt be asking Mr B to 
refund the claim amounts it had paid previously. But it said it wouldnt be able to consider the 
cost of any further treatment relating to the condition.
Mr B wasnt happy with Allianzs response so brought his complaint to this service. He 
accepted that any flea problems werent covered under his policy but he didnt think the 
exclusion covered all skin allergies, particularly as the present condition wasnt related to 
fleas. He said hed checked his policy and even though it excluded claims from or connected 
to skin disorders, he took that to be just the heading for what was written underneath. And 
that referred to flea bite allergy and/or flea allergy dermatitis. He said Allianz had paid five 
claims related to skin allergy and he thought it was reasonable for him to believe it would 
continue to pay for skin disorders that werent related to fleas. He wants Allianz to pay the 
cost of medication for his dogs ongoing allergy treatment.
Our investigator thought Allianz had taken all reasonable steps to make Mr B aware of the 
exclusions on his policy. Both in the policy documents and over the phone. He recognised 
that accepting some of Mr Bs claims caused confusion but Allianz had acknowledged that 
was done in error and he thought it was fair that Allianz had decided not to ask him to refund 
those amounts. He didnt think Allianz needed to do anything more. 
Mr B remains unhappy and so his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. One of the issues he raised was about reviewing the exclusions after 24 months. 
Our investigator explained that we couldnt look at that matter as Allianz hasnt had the 
opportunity to consider it. And to be clear, I wont consider that issue as part of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy schedule that was sent to Mr B in 2019 and upon renewal in 2020 and 2021, sets 
out the terms and conditions of his policy and also outlines the exclusions. The section 
headed Exclusions and Clauses includes the following:
Excluding claims resulting from or connected to Skin Disorders from 13/05/19
Excluding claims resulting from or connected to Flea Bite Allergy And/Or Flea Allergy 
Dematitis (Fad) from 13/05/19
Mr B says he thought the first sentence was a heading and it was only flea bite allergy 
and/or flea allergy dermatitis that was excluded. But all the exclusions are in the same font 
and in the same text size and so I think Allianz did enough to make clear the range and 
scope of the exclusions. Mr B might have assumed the exclusion only covered fleas but Im 
satisfied the policy documents make it sufficiently clear that claims resulting from or 
connected to skin disorders are also excluded. 
Ive also listened to the telephone calls Mr B made to Allianz in May 2019 and April 2020 and 
both advisers explain the exclusions on the policy and refer to skin disorders as well as 
allergies caused by fleas. 
I can understand why Mr B might have thought that only skin disorders relating to fleas 
should be excluded from the policy. His dog had been treated for an allergy caused by fleas 
previously, before he bought the policy from Allianz. And he says his dogs current condition 
isnt related to fleas at all. Its been diagnosed as atopy, which is an allergic reaction to 
environmental allergens rather than flea related issues. But Allianz has explained why it 
added skin conditions to the exclusion and that seems reasonable. It recognised that flea 
allergy and atopy are caused by different things, but it said they are the same disease 
process. Different insurers will have different views about the risks they wish to cover. 
Insurers are generally free to decide whether to offer someone insurance and, if so, on what 
terms. And I think thats reasonable, provided the insurers treat their customers fairly. Allianz 
has explained why it excluded skin disorders as well as allergies caused by fleas, and as Im 
satisfied it took reasonable steps to bring those exclusions to Mr Bs attention, I think its 
acted fairly.
Allianz did make a mistake. It paid several claims when it shouldnt have done. But Allianz 
has said it wont seek to recover those amounts and I think thats a fair and reasonable thing 
to do in the circumstances.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr B but, for the reasons given, I think Allianz has fairly 
applied the exclusions on his policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman