DRN-3576819
The complaint
Mr N complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited didnt tell him he could add a no claims 
discount to his private medical insurance policy in 2017. And that although its refunded the 
difference in premiums since then with interest, it should do so for the life of his policy. 
What happened
I have only summarised matters below as both sides are familiar with the background to this 
complaint.
Mr N has a private medical insurance policy with AXA. The policy is annually renewable and 
during its 2017 renewal Mr N called AXA to say he was unhappy with the cost of his 
premiums. AXA discussed Mr Ns options at the time, and a policy excess was subsequently 
applied to reduce costs.
Mr N had a similar call with AXA during the policys renewal in 2021 because he was again 
unhappy with his premiums. AXA mentioned a no claims discount (NCD), but Mr N 
complained this hadnt been offered to him when hed spoken to AXA about reducing costs 
in 2017.  
AXA didnt have a copy of the 2017 call but accepted what Mr N had said. It agreed it should 
have offered the NCD as an option at that time. So AXA worked out what Mr Ns policy 
would have cost from 2017 onwards, had the NCD been added to it, and paid that amount 
plus 8% interest to Mr N (a total of £3081.41).
Mr N said the refund should have been backdated to when the NCD first became an option, 
but AXA disagreed. 
AXA explained it didnt automatically contact every member when an option became 
available. It said the NCD would have only been available had Mr N contacted it. And that 
his renewal documents had explained there were a range of other options he may want to 
consider and had asked him to get in touch. 
Our investigator thought AXA had acted fairly. She said it had put Mr N back in the position 
he would have been in had it mentioned (and Mr N accepted) the NCD in 2017. She also 
said she wouldnt have expected AXA to contact Mr N directly to sell or recommend a new 
product or policy option. And his renewal documentation had clearly explained cover at the 
time and invited him to get in touch to discuss options.
Mr N disagreed at length and asked that the complaint be decided by an ombudsman. In 
doing so he also raised concerns about AXA breaching data regulation by losing the 2017 
call, said he believed the NCD was always a part of the policy, and AXA should have 
automatically applied it without him needing to make contact. Mr N also set out the 
difficulties he would face if he tried to seek cover with another provider. 
Our investigator explained AXA hadnt lost the 2017 call and had already told Mr N itd 
deleted it to protect his data because it contained his bank details. Our investigator also said 
it wouldnt be right for AXA to automatically apply the NCD without a consumers decision to 
opt into it, given the NCD could have implications on premiums in the event of a claim being 
made. They also said it was AXAs process not to cold call its consumers to sell policy 
options. And that should a consumer want to discuss policy options AXA would be required 
to provide clear, fair, and not misleading information so that consumer could make an 
informed choice about what was suitable for their needs.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as the investigator and for similar 
reasons. Ill now explain why.
As has rightly been explained, AXA sold Mr Ns policy on a non-advised basis. That 
meant it needed to provide Mr N with enough information (that was clear, fair, and 
not misleading) to enable him to make an informed choice about whether the policy 
was suitable for his needs. 
AXA accepts it should have told Mr N about the NCD provision when he called during 
the 2017 renewal window and has taken steps to try to put this right. I know Mr N is 
concerned that AXA might have breached data regulations by losing the 2017 call, 
but the call wasnt lost. AXA has already told Mr N that the call was deleted to protect 
his data as it might have contained his banking details. While I hope Mr N can take 
some reassurance from that, I think it important to reiterate that AXA has not 
disputed his version of events.
In an attempt to put things right AXA calculated what Mr Ns policy would have cost 
had the NCD been added to his policy from 2017 onwards. It then paid that amount 
to Mr N as a refund with 8% interest too. Im pleased that AXA has done this as I 
agree it puts Mr N back in the position he would have been in; had AXA mentioned 
the NCD in 2017 and had Mr N chosen to go ahead and add it to his policy. 
Mr N says AXA should have calculated the refund for the lifetime of his policy, or 
when the NCD first became available, but Im not persuaded it would be fair of me to 
direct it to do so. AXA has said it doesnt automatically contact members when a new 
option becomes available and I wouldnt expect it to do so either. The terms and 
conditions of Mr Ns policy explain the NCD is not an automatic benefit. And Im 
aware that AXA had provided Mr N with information about what his policy would be 
providing at each renewal. AXA also asked Mr N to make sure his policy was still 
appropriate for his needs at renewal. And it also asked him to get in touch because it 
had a range of other options he might want to consider. Mr N did get in touch, in 
2017. And as I explained above was put back in the position he would have been in 
had the NCD been applied to his policy at that point.
NCDs can have differing impacts on a private medical insurance policy, so its 
important a policy holder is able to make an informed choice about whether an NCD 
is right for their individual needs. I understand Mr N says AXA should have 
automatically added the NCD to his policy, and without him getting in touch, but I 
dont think it should have done. AXA has explained it can only add an NCD where 
instructions to do so are received from the lead member. But even if AXA were able 
to add an NCD in the absence of such instruction, automatically doing so would take 
a policy holders ability to make an informed choice about something that could 
impact their policy away. So, it would not be the right thing for AXA to do. Mr N clearly feels very strongly about his position and I thank him for taking the time 
to set out his concerns. Although Id considered everything, I chose to only address 
those matters I considered relevant and central to the outcome of this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr N may be disappointed by my findings but I do hope he can 
understand why I am unable to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman