DRN-4497922
The complaint
Miss B has complained about how esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels 
(esure) dealt with a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B found a leak in her home. So, she contacted her home emergency provider to send 
an engineer. The engineer said trace and access was needed and that Miss B should 
contact her home insurance provider to see if it was available under the buildings and 
contents policy.
So, Miss B contacted esure. Miss B told this service esure told her she didnt have cover 
under the policy and she would need to sort it out herself. Miss B arranged for the source of 
the leak to be found and the damage to be repaired. Miss B also complained to esure. When 
esure responded to the complaint, it offered £700 for the poor service Miss B had received.
Miss B complained to this service because she said the amount esure had offered didnt 
cover the costs shed had to pay to deal with the leak. Our investigator requested a range of 
information from esure, including the details of the claim and the reason for the £700 
compensation that had been offered. When esure replied, it provided basic information about 
the policy, but no details about the claim or compensation. 
Based on the available information, our investigator upheld the complaint. She explained the 
dates she had requested information from esure and the rules that govern this service. She 
said without the requested information, it hadnt been possible to conclude if esure had fairly 
declined the claim or whether the compensation was fair. So, she said esure should settle 
the claim based on Miss Bs invoices for the repairs and pay interest on that amount. Our 
investigator said if esure provided further information, she would reconsider the outcome.
esure didnt reply to our investigators findings. So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority has made rules and given guidance about our
procedures for handling complaints. DISP 3.5.9R and DISP 3.5.14R allows this service to 
reach a decision on a complaint where a party has failed to provide information by the 
deadline specified, based on the information we have.
esure was asked for information about the claim and the compensation on several 
occasions. Our investigator also issued findings and, again, asked esure to provide its 
records. esure was also provided with the date by which it should provide any further 
information it would like an ombudsman to consider before a decision was made. That date 
had now passed. esure didnt provide any response to the request for the claim documents 
or provide an explanation for why these hadnt been provided. Under our rules, Im satisfied 
Im able to issue a decision.
Ive looked at the information available to me. This included what was found by the home 
emergency company. Based on that, Im satisfied there was a leak and that this was likely to 
require trace and access to locate it. I also think the leak was likely to have caused damage 
to the property. 
Ive looked at the esure policy. This said there was trace and access cover available under 
the policy. There was also cover for an escape of water or burst pipes. So, I think there was 
cover under the policy for the circumstances Miss B described. esure hasnt explained why it 
declined the claim. I also note that esure offered Miss B £700 compensation for how it dealt 
with the claim, although I dont know the reason for this other than poor service.
So, in the circumstances, I consider it reasonable to require esure to settle the claim for the 
escape of water. It should do this based on invoices provided by Miss B to show the repairs 
carried out. esure must also pay interest on this amount because Miss B loss use of the 
money. The interest should be calculated from 13 March 2023, which I understand to be one 
month after the leak was first found. If it hasnt already paid it, esure must also pay Miss B 
the £700 compensation it previously offered. 
Putting things right
esure should settle the claim related to the escape of water based on invoices provided by 
Miss B and pay interest on that amount. It should also ensure it has paid the £700 
compensation it previously offered.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas' Wheels to:
Settle the claim related to the escape of water based on invoices provided by Miss B for 
the repairs.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from 13 March 2023 to the date the payment is 
made.
Pay the £700 compensation previously offered, if this hasnt already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman