DRN-3504518
The complaint
Mr I and Mrs K complain about the way Unum Ltd has administered their group private 
dental insurance policy as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
As Mr I has brought the complaint, Ill generally refer only to him throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr I and Mrs K had been insured under Mr Is employers group private dental insurance 
scheme, but he elected not to renew cover during the 2019-20 policy year.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. As a result of lockdown, many dental practices and 
opticians, along with therapists, were unable to provide appointments during this period. 
In April 2020, Mr I opted to re-join the group private dental insurance policy. But he became 
unhappy that he hadnt been able to make use of the dental policy, as he said his dentist had 
been closed. So he didnt think itd been fair for Unum to charge premiums during the 
lockdown and subsequent lockdown periods.
Unum didnt agree to refund the premiums Mr I had paid. It said that dental practices had 
reopened on 8 June 2020. And it said that the policy terms had allowed Mr I to access 
emergency treatment at any dentist if hed needed to. It also said that any treatment Mr I had 
had planned which had been cancelled because of Covid-19 would be honoured in line with 
the available 2020 policy benefits. It offered Mr I an e-voucher worth £35 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr I remained unhappy with Unums response and he asked us to look into his complaint. 
He told us that hed asked Unum to cancel the policy in April 2020, as Mrs K had been 
expecting a baby. But Unum hadnt actioned his request.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Is complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that Mr I 
might not have been able to undergo treatment with his own dentist as a result of Covid-19. 
But he thought Mr I wouldve been covered to seek treatment from any dentist and that 
therefore, he had still benefited from the policy. And he felt Unums agreement to honour any 
delayed treatment in line with the 2020 policy benefits was fair. 
Additionally, our investigator agreed that the policy terms allowed early cancellation of the 
contract due to one of a list of life-changing events. This list included the birth of a child. 
The investigator asked Unum whether it had any record of Mr Is request to cancel the 
policy, but Unum said it didnt. The investigator noted though that even if Mr I had called in 
April 2020, his child wasnt born until around eight months later. So hed have needed to call 
Unum again following the birth to re-request cancellation. But there was nothing to suggest 
that Mr I had done so. Overall, the investigator didnt think Unum needed to do anything 
more.
Mr I disagreed. He said that healthcare providers had been closed to patients during the 
relevant period and that even his own dentist had only been offering emergency treatment.  
He said hed paid for a service which he was unable to use until October 2020 at the earliest. 
And he felt that Covid-19 had been a life-changing event, but Unum had continued to profit 
from a pandemic and peoples difficulties. He didnt think this was fair.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr I, I think Unum has treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Is complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with Unum, 
as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
Mr I entered into a contract with Unum to provide dental cover between 1 April 2020 and 31 
March 2021. Mr I needed to pay premiums of £33.48 per month to be provided during that 
policy year. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event 
happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the 
premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no successful claim has been made 
under the policy. Unum provided cover under Mr Is private medical insurance policy during 
the relevant policy year. It isnt clear whether Mr I did make a claim during that period. But 
even if he didnt do so, Unum is entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of 
him making a claim during the policy year. 
Id add too that based on the evidence Ive seen; it appears that Mr I chose to re-join the 
group scheme on 1 April 2020. This was after lockdown had been imposed and dental 
practices had already closed. So I think Mr I should have been reasonably aware that 
access to dental treatment could be restricted, for an unknown period of time, at the point he 
decided to enter into the contract.
In addition, I dont think its accurate to say Mr Is policy was unusable during the policy year. 
The policy says: You can visit any dentist you like and theres no need to gain prior approval 
before starting treatment. This means that Mr I wasnt bound to only receive treatment from 
his own dentist  Unum would cover Mr I receiving treatment from any dentist. While I accept 
that dental practices were closed until 8 June 2020, Mr I couldve gone on to book treatment 
at any dental practice. And by his own account, his own dentist was offering emergency 
treatment. Unums also said that if dental treatment had been delayed because of Covid-19, 
it would honour the applicable 2020 policy benefits. In my view, this was a fair and 
reasonable position for Unum to take.
Im satisfied that there were policy benefits available which Mr I couldve taken advantage of 
if hed wished to. I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums because dental 
treatment and services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control. Unum 
doesnt own or operate the dental practices its policyholders use and the situation which 
unfolded surrounding Covid-19 was something which was outside of Unums control. So I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to require Unum to 
refund any premiums to Mr I.I appreciate that Mr I says that he requested to cancel his policy in April 2020. Ive thought 
about this carefully. The policy schedule set out Mr Is cancellation rights under the contract. 
This says:
You cannot change or cancel your membership during the period of cover as shown on your 
policy schedule, unless you leave (Mr Is employer) or there is a change in your 
circumstances such as birth or adoption of a child, death of a member or dependant, 
marriage or divorce of the member, member entering a civil partnership or a dissolution of a 
member's civil partnership.
Mr I says that he and Mrs Ks child was born in December 2020 and Id like to congratulate 
them on the arrival of their child. The terms of the contract make it clear that the birth of the 
child would be treated as a change in circumstances which would allow a policyholder to 
cancel the contract early. So it seems to me that Mr I couldve cancelled his policy in 
December 2020.
However, Unum has told us that theres no record of Mr I asking to cancel his policy early. 
And Mr I has told us that he cant remember when during April 2020 he spoke to Unum, or to 
whom. This means I dont think I can safely conclude that Mr I did ask to cancel his policy 
early, or that Unum failed to action his request. And I agree with the investigator that Mr I 
wouldve most likely needed to call Unum again upon the birth of his child, eight months after 
the policy term began, as this was the point at which he was contractually entitled to cancel 
the policy. But I simply havent seen enough evidence to suggest that Mr I did so.
I appreciate Mr I feels that Covid-19 should be treated as a life-changing event and that 
therefore, he shouldve been able to cancel the policy. I think the policy terms made clear 
enough the types of life event Unum considered to be a relevant change in personal 
circumstances. But even if I thought Covid-19 had been such a circumstance, it remains the 
case that Ive seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that Mr I asked to cancel the policy in 
April or December 2020.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Is position, I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Unum to refund his premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman