DRN-4062095
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued to block her account and withhold
her funds after a court order was lifted.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known to all sides, so Ive summarised it below.
Ms O has explained a court order was in place preventing her from operating her accounts
between December 2019 and February 2020. However, once the order was lifted in
February 2020, Santander didnt remove the block from her account.
Ms O was working abroad at the time. Shes explained that from February 2020 she made
numerous phone calls to Santander trying to establish why she still couldnt access her
accounts and the money contained within them, despite the court order being lifted.
Ms O has explained that she felt she was left with no choice but to travel to the UK in March
2021 to attend branch and try to regain access to her accounts. Shes explained she couldnt
get to the UK before then due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Whilst in the UK she went to
branch to try and get some answers but has explained Santander wouldnt tell her anything. 
Ms O was eventually told her accounts had now been closed and cheques for the balances
were sent along with the closure letters on 16 April 2021. Ms O says she wasnt able to cash
the cheques as she didnt have a UK account and wasnt able to obtain one. She says she
told Santander this, but it didnt offer any alternative solutions or follow her instructions to
transfer the money to her foreign bank account.
Ms O had to leave the UK in May 2021 without her money. She says she once again had no
choice but to return to the UK in July 2021 to try and sort out the issue with cashing the
cheques. She was able to open an account at that point and deposit the cheques.
Ms O has explained the block meant she couldnt pay her bills from the account and had to
make international transfers to her niece who was locked down at university. Ms O says she
suffered a great deal of inconvenience and worry throughout, having to travel during a
pandemic and spent hours trying to contact Santander for answers. As a resolution Ms O
would like Santander to cover the cost of her flights and covid tests for both visits to the UK.
She would like the account fees refunded which Santander continued to charge whilst it was
blocked, and any cashback lost during that time. She also feels compensation is warranted
for the impact this whole matter had on her.
Santander has admitted it made an error in not lifting the block in February 2020. It says the
block should have been lifted at that point, the accounts closed, and the money released to
Ms O. It offered £500 for the inconvenience caused. Santander has said it has no record of
Ms O calling in to ask about her account other than a phone call in May 2020 and it didnt
ask her to attend branch. It doesnt therefore think it should cover her flight costs.
Our investigator upheld Ms Os complaint. He agreed Santander had made an error in not
lifting the block in February 2020. Whilst he didnt think Santander should refund the cost of
the flights, as he couldnt be sure Ms O returned to the UK for the sole purpose of sorting out
the issues with Santander, he recommended it do the following to resolve the complaint:
Refund the account fees charged during the block.
Pay interest at the account rate on the funds from when they were returned to when
they were released.
Pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Santander agreed, but Ms O didnt. She was offended the investigator implied she was being
dishonest about the reason she travelled to the UK. She emphasised the fact Covid-19 was
still rife at the time and she wouldnt have travelled unless necessary. She explained that
had Santander sent her the cheques at the outset, when the freezing order was lifted, she
wouldnt have suffered through all the inconvenience and uncertainty that she did during a
global pandemic.
Because Ms O disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What I provisionally decided - and why
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 March 2023. These were my 
findings:
This complaint revolves around the removal of a block on Ms Os account following the 
lifting of a court order. Santander had admitted it made an error in February 2020 in failing to
remove the block. As this is not in dispute, I havent needed to investigate this issue further.
What is left for me to determine is the appropriate way to put things right.
Santander has explained that it should have issued the account closure letters in February
2020 and sent the money to Ms O  as it eventually did in April 2021. Regardless of this
decision, it should have ensured the block was lifted so Ms O could access her money. But
Im satisfied had it chose to close the accounts at that stage, Santander wouldnt have made
an error. It was able to close the accounts under the terms and conditions. The error comes
in the fact Santander took the appropriate action over a year later than it should have,
therefore denying Ms O access to her funds and the ability to move on from this situation.
So, my decision is mainly focussed on what would be fair compensation for this error.
Had Santander done what I would have expected, Ms O would have received the cheques
for the money in her account in February 2020 and as shes explained, this would have
prevented the complaint as she would have had the cheques in her possession to cash
when it was convenient for her.
Ms O would like all her costs covered for travelling to the UK in March and July 2021. Whilst
I agree Santander made an error, Im not persuaded it should cover these costs and Ill
explain why.
I appreciate Ms O says she felt she had no choice but to fly home to attend branch, but Ive
not seen enough to satisfy me Ms O had exhausted other options. For example, Ms O says
she called Santander several times during 2020 to find out why she couldnt access her
money but was given stock answers that it couldnt allow transactions or give any further
details. However, I havent seen anything that suggests Ms O raised a complaint at the time,
either with Santander or this service. It wasnt until after she flew to the UK that she
contacted us. Had she needed access to her account urgently in that period  urgently
enough to fly a considerable distance and at a cost  or wasnt getting the answers she
needed, I would have reasonably expected to see evidence of further contact attempts
before taking the step to fly to the UK.In addition, Ms O clearly has connections in the UK, has a property here and is often
travelling to and from the country. I can see for at least the July flight she had booked a
return for October, so intended to be here for several months. Taking these things into
account, Im minded to believe Ms O dealt with other matters, in addition to the Santander
issue, during her visit to the UK.
Finally, Ms O was in possession of the cheques after her first visit, so Im satisfied she had
the opportunity at that point to deposit those cheques. Ms O has said she wasnt able to
open an account at that time which is why she had to return to the UK again. But its unclear
why this would be the case as she was able to do so on that second visit just a few months
later. Given this, even if I hadnt reached the conclusions above, it wouldnt be fair for
Santander to cover the cost of the second flight and expenses associated with that.
So, for these reasons, Im not minded to ask Santander to cover Ms Os travel costs,
including the Covid tests. I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms O and my
intention isnt to offend her with these conclusions. But I must be fair to both parties, and for
the reasons detailed above, I cant be satisfied the trips to the UK were the sole result of
Santanders error.
However, there is no doubt Ms O has been disadvantaged by Santanders error and so to
compensate her for the loss of use of her funds during the period, it should pay 8% simple
interest on the funds from one week after the court order was lifted in February 2020 (Ive
said one week after as its reasonable to allow Santander some time to complete its closure
processes) to 16 April 2021 (the date the cheques were issued and I believe Ms O could
have taken steps to cash them). Ms O as explained she needed the money to pay her bills
and send money to her niece and Santander deprived her of the opportunity to use this
money, so 8% simple interest is fair in the circumstances.
Santander should also refund Ms O the amount of the account fees it charged for the period
her current account was blocked, as it should have been closed and no fees incurred.
Santander has offered £500 for the trouble and upset caused and I think this amount is fair
and reasonable in the circumstances. Whilst I dont think the inconvenience caused by the
travel to the UK should be included in this figure, for the reasons Ive explained above, I can
appreciate the amount of time and effort Ms O went to regardless of this. She made 
numerous phone calls and visits to branch to try and resolve the matter and I can imagine
how frustrating it must have been to continuously be told no one could help or tell her
anything. This would have been extremely worrying, especially when considering the amount
of money involved.
Santander agreed with my provisional decision. 
Ms O responded explaining that she appreciated her complaint had been upheld. But she 
had some further points and clarification around her initial visit to the UK in April 2021. 
Ms O pointed to my conclusion that she hadnt exhausted all her options before deciding to 
fly to the UK, asking what else she could have been expected to do having tried to sort the 
matter out over the phone. She explained she wasnt aware of this service until she was 
advised to complain to us following one of her branch visits in April 2021. Ms O maintained 
that sorting out the issue with Santander was the only reason she returned to the UK in April 
2021 and would like me to reconsider my conclusions around this. 
Ms O explained that the cheques she received from Santander were dated 19 April 2021, 
not 16 April 2021, as I had indicated in my provisional decision. Finally, Ms O asked for clarification around whether the 8% simple interest applies to her 
entire balance.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following Ms O and Santanders responses to my provisional decision, the central point 
remains unchanged  Im satisfied Santander made an error in withholding Ms Os funds for 
over a year. Its said had it acted correctly, it would have closed the accounts in February 
2020 and had it done so, Ms O wouldnt have faced over a year of uncertainty.  
I appreciate Ms Os remaining concern is around the fact I havent recommended Santander 
cover the cost of her travel to the UK in April 2021. I have taken on board her additional 
comments, but Im afraid Im not able to change the outcome on this particular point. 
I should say that I dont doubt Ms O struggled to get any information out of Santanders 
customer service department during 2020 and early 2021  albeit the volume of these calls 
is disputed between Ms O and Santander, with only one of these being recorded. And I 
understand Ms O hadnt heard of this service before April 2021. However, I do have to 
consider the fact a quick search of Santanders website shows all the details of how to raise 
a complaint with Santander and this service. Had Ms O been so frustrated and eager to get 
things sorted with Santander that she felt she had no choice but to fly back to the UK, I 
would have expected to see her utilise Santanders complaint procedure first. Had she 
conducted this search, she would also have found what she needed to contact this service 
for some help too, as our details are displayed on Santanders complaints webpage. Im 
afraid the fact she didnt go down the route of complaining  something I think its fair to say 
is a reasonable next step if you have concerns with how your bank is treating you  leads 
me to again question the need for Ms O to return to the UK at that point and indeed return 
for the sole purpose of dealing with Santander. For these reasons and those detailed in my 
provisional decision, I wont be asking Santander to compensate Ms O for her travel to the 
UK. 
Ms O has provided me with pictures of the cheques she was sent by Santander, and these 
do show the date of issue as 19 April 2021. This is significant as in my provisional decision 
Id recommended Santander pay 8% simple interest on Ms Os withheld funds to the date it 
issued the cheques. I had originally said the 16 April 2021 as that was the date of the copy 
closure letters Santander provided, with which the cheques were enclosed. However, now I 
have seen the actual cheques I find this more persuasive. So, I direct Santander to pay 8% 
simple interest on Ms Os entire withheld balance from one week after the court order was 
lifted, to 19 April 2021. 
Taking everything into account, I still uphold Ms Os complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I direct Santander to do the following:
Refund the monthly account fees charged on Ms Os current account whilst it was
blocked.
Pay 8% simple interest on Ms Os entire withheld balance from one week after the 
court order was lifted, to when the cheques were issued on 19 April 2021. 
Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Os complaint against Santander UK Plc and direct it to 
carry out the settlement detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman