DRN-4520580
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clear Score Technology Limited will not onboard his bank meaning he 
is unable to use Clear Scores account information services in respect of his bank account.
What happened
Background
Clear Score is a financial technology business. One of the financial services Clear Score is
authorised to provide is account information services. An account information service is an
online service which provides consolidated information on one or more payment accounts
held by a payment service user with another payment service provider.
Mr H wanted to link his bank accounts to Clear Scores app. Clear Score would then be able
to use the information from Mr Hs bank accounts to give personalised insights and offers
when providing his credit score, reports and spending analysis.
At the time of the events complained about, Mr Hs payment accounts were not provided by
one of the nine largest banks in the UK. His bank had made an Open Banking API
(application programming interface) available for integration, but it wasnt shown in the Clear
Score app because Clear Score had not integrated. As a result, Mr H could not use Clear
Scores account information services in respect of his bank account.
Mr Hs complaint
Mr H explains that he contacted Clear Score about the possibility of connecting with his bank
three times, but did not receive any acknowledgment or reply so had no option but to raise a
complaint. Hes provided copies of the emails that he sent to Clear Score in February and
March 2022 that went unanswered.
When Mr H didnt receive a final response from Clear Score, he referred the matter to this
service. He wanted us to direct Clear Score to integrate with his bank. He also made a
complaint about the bank, which is being considered separately. He said the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is uniquely placed to request the bank and Clear Score to work
together.
Clear Score responded to us. It explained that initially it was not in collaboration with Mr Hs
bank, but it had passed the request to integrate on to the relevant team. Clear Score says
that it did then try to onboard Mr Hs bank, but was unable to provide him with business
confidential information about the onboarding process. 
Clear Score indicated to us that it thought the link was operational, and then that it would be 
operational in late Summer 2022. It said it should have handled Mr Hs correspondence 
better than it did and explained it had provided feedback to its staff.
When Mr Hs complaint was allocated to our Investigator, he explained that the app still
wasnt linked to his bank and provided screenshots to show it was not supported.
Around the same time, Mr H contacted Clear Score again. It told him it had made a mistake
when it had said his bank was available to link with. It apologised for the disappointment of it
not being available yet but said the delay was at the banks end, so was out of Clear Scores
control.
Our Investigator considered the matter but did not recommend it should be upheld. He said
Clear Score arent required to link with Mr Hs bank. His investigation concluded that the
problem preventing the integration from being successful had been at the banks end.
Mr H didnt accept the Investigators view. In summary, he said some compensation ought to
be considered on account of the misinformation provided by Clear Score and the length of
time taken to get traction on the issue. He felt not upholding the complaint suggested Clear
Score had done nothing wrong and that the complaint was without merit, which is not the
case. Mr H wanted to know when onboarding would become an option and requested a
clearer explanation as to how it was being taken forwards. He explained hed had a poor
experience, having got his hopes up only for them to be dashed again.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me. 
My further investigation
When the complaint was referred to me, I contacted Mr Hs bank to find out why the attempt
to onboard had failed and whether the issue had since been rectified. The bank responded
to say there were no barriers to onboarding currently and the previous issues had been
resolved.
I asked Clear Score whether it would consider attempting to integrate with the bank again
now the problem appears to have been rectified. Clear Score responded to say that there
were no current plans to onboard with this particular bank as there is not sufficient demand
for it. Clear Score explained that connections with other financial institutions are taking
priority.
Mr H was disappointed. He said that as a customer of a smaller bank he is disadvantaged
and facing an invisible block to Open Banking services, now not because of technology but
down to commercial feasibility. He suggested there was a competition issue if customers
must move to a larger bank to be able to access the full range of Open Banking services,
creating a situation that is not financially inclusive.
Mr H explained that his affordability score in Clear Scores app was low because it is unable
to link to his bank accounts.
Whilst the complaint has been with me, Mr Hs bank decided to move away from the retail
banking market and gave Mr H notice of its intention to close his accounts. Clear Score
provided me with a list of the organisations that have successfully onboarded with its
services, which I shared with Mr H to assist him.
My provisional decision 
After considering everything that both sides had said and provided, I was minded to reach a 
different outcome to our Investigator. I issued a provisional decision which forms part of this 
final decision on 24 November 2023. My findings are included below:
Onboarding Mr Hs bank
I understand Mr H wants to fully utilise the benefits and opportunities that Open Banking
presents. But I have to decide whether Clear Score is required to onboard Mr Hs bank andwhether it has acted unfairly or unreasonably by ultimately not doing so.
I have looked at Clear Scores terms and conditions. They set out what Mr H can expect
from them, and they govern how the relationship between them will work. The terms say that
Clear Score may change the content or functionality of its apps, website or any other method
which allows access to its services at any time. They also say that Clear Score cannot
guarantee that its website or apps or any content on them or provided as part of its services
will always be available, uninterrupted or error free. Clear Score has not made any
commitment that its product will always be fully compatible with every financial institution.
Clear Score has explained that this particular bank was not a priority for it to integrate with
and so has made a commercial decision not to pursue integration at this time. It has
explained there was not sufficient demand for it. It is for Clear Score to decide the
circumstances in which it will connect to account servicing payment service providers. The
bank Mr H was with has a smaller customer base and, as such, a limited scope. Clear Score
is entitled to make this commercial decision.
Clear Scores operational priorities have changed. I accept it is disappointing for Mr H that
Clear Score decided against integration, but I am not a regulator and I do not have the
power to change the wider Open Banking ecosystem to facilitate increased participation for
groups of end users that hold payment accounts with smaller firms.
In my view, Clear Score has not acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H by deciding not
to pursue a connection to the bank at this time and I cannot compel it to when it is not
obligated by law or regulation to do so.
The service provided to Mr H
Clear Score has already acknowledged that Mr Hs experience has not been smooth, so it
should come as no surprise that Mr H has found this matter to be frustrating. It repeatedly
didnt answer his correspondence when he initially asked about integration, ultimately
resulting in him making a complaint. Hes gone to the trouble to raise this issue and hes
spent further time contacting Clear Score to follow it up after being mistakenly told that the
integration was in place.
Whilst Clear Score did initially try to pursue integration with Mr Hs bank, and I do appreciate
that the information Clear Score shared with Mr H about that progress was given in good
faith, Im also mindful that Mr H has had to do much of the running here and there were
periods of time where he was in the dark about what was happening. Although I accept
Clear Score couldnt share commercially sensitive information about the processes and
procedures that were happening in the background, it could have still explained to Mr H in
general terms what was happening. Its clear that Clear Score took longer than Mr H was
entitled to expect to respond to his queries and concerns.All of these matters have had an impact on Mr H. I dont think Clear Scores apology goes far
enough given that both parties broadly agree that Clear Score did not provide the level of
customer service that it ought to have done on more than one occasion. I think Clear Score
has caused Mr H unnecessary distress and inconvenience, for which I consider £250 would
be an appropriate award.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr H responded to say he would be happy to agree to my provisional decision.
Clear Score didnt agree with everything that Id said. It acknowledged that Mr Hs 
experience had not been smooth, and it agreed that there had been mistakes, but it also 
considered there had been mitigating circumstances and factors outside of its control that 
should be taken into consideration. 
Clear Score pointed out that the provisional decision was the first time it had been raised 
that Mr H had tried to get in contact in February/March 2022. Clear Score said it had no 
record of ever receiving those emails and asked me to provide copies so it could look into 
what may have happened. It didnt feel it was fair to say these emails represented Clear 
Scores customer service standards as it had no knowledge of them until now. It pointed out 
that Mr Hs emails between 11 April and 2 May 2022 were answered within approximately 
two days. 
Clear Score said that it had told Mr H on several occasions that it didnt have answers 
regarding potentially onboarding his bank and against that backdrop it was Mr Hs choice to 
continue to engage on the matter. It disagreed that Mr H had been specifically 
inconvenienced in a way that Clear Score could or should have mitigated. It highlighted that 
Mr Hs credit score had been perfect during the life of this case, putting him in the best 
possible position to access credit through Clear Score if he had wished to do so. It said there 
was no reason to believe that Mr H would have been in a better position to access credit or 
benefit from Clear Scores services had any of this turned out differently. 
Clear Score said it regretted that it had told Mr H that his bank had been onboarded in error 
and recognised the experience would have been frustrating, but it felt an award of £250 was 
steep and implies a more significant degree of inconvenience and harm than what was 
caused. It suggested £100 would be more appropriate. 
I contacted Mr H to let him know what Clear Score had said. He felt £250 was reasonable in 
the circumstances. He was surprised that Clear Score didnt have any record of his earlier 
emails and felt that it was trying to reduce the seriousness of the failings. 
Clear Score followed up to say it had searched but had no record of the emails in its 
systems. It speculated that the emails had never arrived because they didnt have any 
reference number or input from its auto responder in the thread at any point. It couldnt 
explain exactly why this happened as it no longer had relevant records from Spring 2022. It 
speculated the messages could have been caught in a spam filter but acknowledged that it 
had previously corresponded with Mr H using the same email address with no issues.
Clear Score acknowledged that Mr H wouldnt have known to expect an auto response or a 
reference number and accepted it would have looked poor on his end, but said it was 
surprised that Mr H didnt reference the lack of response when he contacted Clear Score 
successfully at a later date. 
As both parties have now had the opportunity to consider and respond to my provisional 
decision and no agreement has been reached, I shall now consider the matter afresh. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, both sides broadly agree that Mr H has encountered 
difficulties and that his time was wasted when he was erroneously told a successful 
integration with his bank was in place. 
As such, the only matter that remains outstanding is that of fair compensation. Mr H agrees 
£250 is appropriate to recognise the impact Clear Scores handling of this matter has had on 
him, Clear Score considers there are mitigating factors to consider. It feels the award is on 
the high side. It has pointed out that Mr H decided for himself to continue to follow up on the 
integration despite being told there was no time frame for when his bank might be added.
It is not the role of this service to penalise Clear Score, only to ensure that a consumer is 
compensated fairly. The aim of a distress and inconvenience award is to recognise the 
emotional or practical impacts of a mistake.
I appreciate Clear Scores point that it wasnt able to respond to emails that it didnt receive. 
But Clear Score has also acknowledged that from Mr Hs perspective, there was no way for 
him to know that those messages had not arrived, especially as he was contacting Clear 
Score from an email address that hed used previously without any issues. There is no 
dispute that Mr H was contacting Clear Score using the correct contact details. As such, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr H to assume his messages had been safely received 
and I agree with him that it would have been annoying to not receive any reply. I dont think 
the fact that Mr H didnt explicitly raise his annoyance in his future contact with Clear Score 
means that he did not experience any frustration at all. I still consider that he would have 
experienced some annoyance for which a modest compensation payment would be 
appropriate. 
Clear Score also acknowledges that Mr H experienced a loss of expectation when he was 
told that there was a successful integration with his bank. After being told this, he took the 
time to try and integrate his bank and was put to the effort and inconvenience of having to 
follow the matter up to find out what was happening when it wasnt possible to connect. Ive 
thought carefully about everything Clear Score has said and provided in response to my 
provisional decision, but I still consider that the culmination of several errors have required 
some reasonable efforts on Mr Hs part to follow up. In all the circumstances here, I still think 
Mr H suffered some trouble and I dont think my proposed award overstated the impact of it 
on him. 
Putting things right
I still believe its fair and reasonable that Clear Score pay Mr H £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Clear Score Technology Limited 
should pay £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 Claire Marsh
Ombudsman