DRN-3322986
The complaint
Mr C complains that advice given to him in 1989 by Manulife (The Manufacturers Life
Insurance Company (UK) Limited) to transfer his deferred benefits in a former employers
occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a personal pension was unsuitable. Manulife later
became part of Canada Life Limited. For convenience Ive just referred to Canada Life 
below.
Mr C is represented in making his complaint.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Cs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 3 February 2022. 
In it I set out the background and what Id decided and why. For the reasons I explained, I 
didnt uphold the complaint. I said that, overall, I was satisfied that Canada Life had reviewed 
the advice Mr C received and calculated its compensation offer in line with the regulators 
guidance. Ive repeated what I said here.
Mr C had been a member of the OPS from 1 October 1973 to 5 August 1988. Hed accrued
a pension of £1,530 pa of which £528 was Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). In May
1989 he transferred his deferred benefits to a personal pension (a pension transfer bond). A
total transfer value of £5,953.54 was paid.
The transfer was reviewed as part of the industrywide pension review. Canada Life wrote to
Mr C on 20 June 2001 with the outcome of the review. Reinstatement in the OPS wasnt
possible. An offer was made to Mr C: £6,361 and additional life cover of £4,000 or £6,717
without any additional life cover. Mr C chose the first amount which was used to buy extra
units in his personal pension.
Mr C, through his representative, complained to Canada Life in December 2019. In
summary, Mr Cs representative said:
Mr C had been informed that the transfer would give him a larger pension in 
retirement. He had little experience or knowledge of pensions and investments. 
Hed accepted the advice as being in his best interests.
The representative was bound by the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit 
Trust Regulatory Organisation) rules. He had common law duties as well.
Mr C shouldnt have been exposed to the risks involved in giving up valuable 
income guarantees and inflation protected benefits in favour of a pension linked to 
the stock market. He hadnt been properly informed of the inherent risks in 
transferring.
It had already been accepted that the advice was unsuitable. The redress paid 
doesnt put Mr C anywhere near the position hed be in without the unsuitable 
advice.
Ive also seen a commentary prepared by Mr Cs representative about defined benefit 
transfers considered under the pension review generally, arguing that the redress paid 
in such cases should be revisited. The main points were:
It was in breach of the regulators requirement to treat customers fairly to 
decline a complaint about advice given without considering its merits if the 
advice had previously been considered under the pension review.
In the vast majority of cases, any redress paid doesnt come close to putting the 
customer in the position theyd have been but for the unsuitable advice. And 
customers whod been told there was no loss are reaching retirement with a 
much lower income than theyd have had, but for the unsuitable advice.
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules changed in July 2015. Complaints received 
after then cant be dismissed if the advice had been considered as part of a 
previous redress scheme. Even where redress has been accepted in full and final 
settlement that shouldnt prevent this service from issuing a decision on the merits 
and not simply on whatever inadequate attempt has been made in the past to put 
things right.
Consumers accepted redress in good faith on the basis it was fair compensation 
and had no way of knowing that wasnt the case. It isnt legally appropriate to deny 
them the right to have the merits of the complaint considered by this service.
Giving up a guaranteed and inflation protected pension has had a devastating 
impact on retirement income. Typically, even after redress has been paid, retirees 
will receive incomes less than half (and sometime less) of what theyd have had if 
theyd remained in the OPS.
The pension review redress was never fit for purpose. Assumed future growth 
rates were completely unrealistic, even before investment costs were taken into 
account let alone on a net return basis. In the 1990s the average annual growth for 
the FTSE100 and FTSE All share indices were far higher than longer term 
averages. Higher than average returns shouldnt have been assumed.
A redress calculation carried out now would take into account what redress had 
already been paid. And, if that redress had fairly compensated the consumer, a 
new calculation would show no loss.
Canada Life didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr Cs policies had been considered under
the pension review and an offer made which hed accepted in full and final settlement. If he
was unhappy with the outcome hed been advised he could refer his concerns to the PIA
(Personal Investment Authority) Ombudsman Bureau.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He obtained a copy of the
redress calculations from Canada Life which he shared with Mr Cs representative.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he said the pension review was
designed to be a one off way to establish any potential loss and to pay appropriate
compensation. Canada Life had carried out the review in 2001 in accordance with the
guidelines set by the regulator at the time.
The new guidance, introduced by the regulator in October 2017, included updated
assumptions. But that was only where the transfer hadnt been reviewed before. The
regulator didnt require businesses to update or recalculate reviews already completed. It
was unfortunate if the assumptions used in 2001 werent enough to make up for the full loss
Mr C had suffered. But that wasnt grounds to repeat the calculation and Canada Life hadnt
acted unfairly in refusing to review the calculations using the updated guidelines.
In response, Mr Cs representative said the investigator had failed to address an issue it had
raised earlier about the redress calculations. It said the policy charge assumption used in the
calculation was zero which was clearly incorrect and wouldve had a large impact on the
result of the calculation, overstating the future value of the personal pension benefits and
reducing the loss. Mr Cs representative also pointed to a warning/assumption which wasntto be reported to the investor, referring to missing generous spouses benefits.
We asked Canada Life for its comments on those points. It referred the queries to its
actuaries who said that the calculation detailed (see page 23) that charges (an annual
management charge and a fund management charge) had been applied to net down the
value of the personal pension. And page 28 details the actual calculation of the personal
pension value which in addition shows an allowance for future annuity expenses. All those
reduce the value of the personal pension and increase the redress. The net personal
pension value was £12,741 (a reduction from £16,152) to allow for future charges and which
matches the figures in the offer letter.
The other matter appeared to be an automated message/control when a 0% death in
deferment is inputted to make sure thats correct and that the OPS benefit hasnt been
overlooked. The calculations (see page 36, bullet point 5 and reinforced on page 44) state
that the accrued (widows) death in deferment benefit is going to be less than the widows
GMP. Thats due to the to death in deferment benefits not revaluing from the date of leaving
whereas the widows GMP increases at 7.5% pa and so exceeds the accrued death in
deferment benefit. The GMP calculation automatically takes into account the value of the
widows GMP and hence allows for the value of the death benefits.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is the case, as Mr Cs representative has said, that the DISP rules changed for complaints
referred to us on or after 9 July 2015 as this complaint was.
DISP 3.3.4R (5) says the ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial
Ombudsman Service before 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the respondent has
reviewed the subject matter of the complaint in accordance with the regulatory standards for
the review of such transactions prevailing at the time of the review or any formal regulatory
requirement, standard or guidance published by the Financial Conduct Authority or other
regulator in respect of that type of complaint. DISP 3.3.4AR, which applies to complaint
referred to us on or after 9 July 2015, doesnt include the same ground for dismissal.
But we havent dismissed the complaint without considering its merits. Weve looked into the
complaint and we havent upheld it. Mr Cs representative has referred to the regulatory and
legal position at the time and why Canada Life shouldnt have recommended that Mr C
transfer. But I dont need to consider the merits  that is the suitability or otherwise of the
advice to transfer  in any detail.
Canada Life, in effect, has conceded, when it undertook its review, that the advice to transfer
may not have been suitable. And then went on to undertake a redress calculation which
confirmed Mr C had suffered a loss and redress offered and paid. The complaint is less
about the suitability or otherwise of the advice and more about the review in 2001 and the
adequacy or otherwise of the compensation paid.
As the investigator explained, the pension review was designed to be a one-off exercise. It
was implemented to rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers, as far as possible,
back in the position theyd have been, if they hadnt had poor advice.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the then regulator. Several assumptions,
based on what the regulator thought was fair at the time, were used in the redress
calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the pension funds to produce therequired benefits at retirement.
But, unfortunately, and as Mr Cs representative has highlighted, in many cases the
assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt materialise. This, combined with
annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits provided by the personal pension. It was
thought the lump sum compensation paid following the review plus the existing value of the
pension would be high enough to match the OPS at retirement date. But this hasnt been the
case for many consumers.
But that in itself wont be a reason redo the review and recalculate compensation. The
pension review was aimed at drawing a line under the matter with no need to revisit the
advice again. A business could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that it wouldnt be
liable for future compensation; and consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had
been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be
reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was
designed for complaints upheld about OPS transfers received after 3 August 2016 or for
complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in full and final settlement
already. It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the pension review period
would be excluded from the updated guidance. But, after the consultation period, FG17/9
said some cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant
pension transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the
particular circumstances of the case were not addressed by those standards.
Mr Cs representative has argued that the review in 2001 wasnt done correctly. And so the
redress should be recalculated using the new FG/17 guidance.
Ive set out above the discrepancies which Mr Cs representative has pointed to and which
we put to Canada Life whose actuaries have commented. First, it seems that the charges for
the personal pension  the annual management charge and the fund management charge 
have been taken into account in the redress calculation. Those charges reduce the value of
the personal pension and so increase the redress and the offer made to Mr C.
Secondly, Canada Life has explained the warning message about spouses benefits and that
it doesnt mean that something has been overlooked or that the calculation hasnt taken into
account a possible (and generous) benefit given up by transferring. So I dont think the
points raised by Mr Hs representative mean that the redress calculation was done
incorrectly or that the redress paid to Mr H wasnt calculated in line with the regulators
guidance and should be redone.
As Ive said, the pension review was a one-off exercise and in 2000 Mr C agreed a final
settlement in respect of the transfer advice he received. Only in limited circumstances would
I look beyond that agreement. That would include where the calculation was done
incorrectly. But, from what Ive seen, I dont think that was the case. So I dont think theres
any reason for me to require Canada Life to redo the redress calculation using the FG/17
guidance.
Neither Mr Cs representative nor Canada Life offered any further comments in response to 
my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further information, evidence or comments, my views remain as set 
out in my provisional decision. Ive repeated in full above the background and what Id 
decided and why and it forms part of this final decision. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman