DRN-3158889
The complaint
Ms S (through a representative) complains S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home 
(LAH) lent to her irresponsibly because it didnt carry out proper affordability checks. Ms S 
also says these loans worsened her already poor financial situation. 
What happened
In total Ms S was given 4 home collected loans between June 2017 and June 2019. Ive 
included some of the information this Service has received from LAH about the lending in the 
table below; 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)
1 £750 14/06/2017 27/12/2017 45
2 £1,600 27/12/2017 26/06/2019 75
3 £500 19/12/2018 20/11/2019 45
4 £2,000 26/06/2019 11/11/2020 63
LAH considered Ms Ss complaint and issued its final response letter in May 2021. LAH 
concluded that it hadnt done anything wrong when it granted these four loans. Unhappy with 
this response, Ms Ss representative brought her complaint to this Service. 
In the adjudicators latest assessment, she thought LAH had acted reasonably when it 
approved loans 1 and 2. But, the adjudicator thought, loans 3 and 4 shouldnt have been 
granted. In her view, the overall pattern of lending was now harmful for Ms S and so these 
loans ought to not have been provided. 
Ms S appears to have accepted the adjudicators latest findings. 
LAH disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, LAH said;
there was nothing to indicate that providing loans 3 and 4 to Ms S was unsustainable 
or harmful. 
It also referred back to a previous email LAH had sent this Service where it explained; 
before loan 3 was approved, there was minimal activity on her credit file and 
there may have been some historic problems but by the time of loan 3, Ms Ss 
finances seemed to be improving which demonstrates the loan was sustainable for 
her. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
There doesnt appear to be any ongoing disagreement about the outcome the adjudicator 
reached about loans 1 and 2. So, I dont think I need to go into detail about those loans in 
this decision. Instead, Ill focus on what happened with loans 3 and 4. But Ive kept in mind 
loans 1 and 2 because these loans form part of the overall lending relationship between Ms 
S and LAH. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms S could
repay her loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest LAH should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Ms S. These factors include: 
Ms S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ms S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms S. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time these loans were granted, LAH was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, which has set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Ms Ss complaint.
When loan 3 was granted, LAH asked about Ms Ss income and she declared this was 
£458.18 per week.  It seems that LAH confirmed this amount by checking Ms Ss wage slip. 
It has recorded Mrs Ss weekly outgoings to be £239.10. And I understand the payment for 
loan 2, wouldve been included in this amount.  LAH was also aware that Ms Ss partner covered some of the living costs in full such as the council tax. But it was aware that Ms S 
did have some commitments such as food. 
Similar information was also gathered by LAH when Ms S was provided with loan 4. 
LAH has made reference to Ms Ss credit checks and credit file. It hasnt provided this 
Service with the full results, but it has provided this Service with a summary. Based on this 
summary for loan 3, LAH knew there were two outstanding home credit accounts 
(presumably one wouldve been loan 2) and it was aware that she had 4 active credit 
accounts.  
It is of course possible that base on what LAH saw it wouldve thought the loans were 
affordable to Ms S. 
But, Id be inclined to think that from loan 3, LAHs checks really needed to go further. At this 
point in the lending relationship, I think LAH ought to have been verifying not just Ms Ss 
income but also her overall expenditure in order to have an accurate understanding of her 
actual financial position. Its not clear to me it did this. 
But in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Ms S, LAH also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Ms S. Having looked at the overall pattern of LAHs 
lending history with Ms S, I agree with our adjudicator that LAH should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it provided 
loan 3. I say this because;
At this point LAH ought to have realised Ms S was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms S had taken out two previous loans in 18 months and she had been 
indebted to LAH for the entire time. So, LAH ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not Ms S was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and that Ms 
Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
It also seems that Ms Ss loan history up until this point clearly indicated that her 
underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving, given, Ms S was further 
committing herself to be indebted for a further 45 weeks. Especially, when you take 
into account she had already been indebted for 18 months. 
Loan 3 was a smaller loan compared to loans 1 and 2. But when loan 3 was 
approved, loan 2 was still outstanding and would be for a number of weeks. This 
meant Mrs Ss commitment to LAH had increased from £30 per week to £60 per 
week. This suggests to me that Ms Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably, 
and she was likely needing further borrowing to cover ongoing living costs, rather 
than as a means to cover one-off purchases, for example. 
Ms S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed LAH. Loan 4 was 
taken out two years after Ms Ss first loan. And it was for more than twice the amount 
Ms S initially borrowed.  Ms S had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service 
a debt to LAH over an extended period.
I think that Ms S lost out when LAH provided loans 3 and 4 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ss indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the time in debt was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Ss ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 3 and 4 and Ill go on to set outwhat LAH should do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms S from loan 3 as I think it ought to. 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms S may have simply left matters there and 
not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between 
her and LAH which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms S in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms S would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Ms S loans 3 and 4.
A. LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms S towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance. 
B. LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms S originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. LAH should pay Ms S A and B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Ss borrowing for loans 3 and 4 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove these loans entirely from Ms 
Ss credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Ms S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ss complaint in part.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman