DRN-3318334
The complaint
Ms W complains through her representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent her money on 
a high interest loan that she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Ms W with a short term loan on 14 November 2015. It was for £1,500, 
repayable at the rate of about £150 a month over 12 months.
Ms Ws representative said that she was in financial difficulty at the time the loan was 
contracted. Throughout the life of the loan, she was struggling to meet the monthly payments 
to Avant Credit. I can see from the record of the instalment payments, that several of Ms Ws 
payments were returned. The loan was settled by October 2016.
AvantCredit reviewed Ms Ws application, verified her income independently, obtained one 
months bank statement and carried out a credit check..
Our adjudicator said that the checks carried out were proportionate but that they showed 
Ms W was struggling financially. She pointed out that Ms W was overdrawn and that a 
substantial proportion of her income was committed to credit repayments. She thought that 
AvantCredit hadnt made a fair lending decision.
AvantCredit disagreed, pointing out that the loan was for debt consolidation, and if Ms W had 
paid off a number of her revolving credit accounts (credit that goes up or down each month 
like credit cards, shopping or mail order accounts)) and loans she would have had sufficient 
disposable income to pay the loan instalments.
The matter has been passed me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms W would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms W would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Ws ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms W undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
It is difficult to get a full picture from the credit summary provided by AvantCredit as it is only 
in summary form. But it does show that Ms W had seven credit accounts, two of which had 
been taken out in the three months prior to the loan application. It does show that Ms W had 
had problems with making her credit payments, as several accounts were shown to be in 
default.
Ive seen Ms Ws bank statement for the month before the loan was issued. This does show 
a number of payments to credit providers, particularly payday lenders, about £340 that 
month. But it is difficult to pinpoint how much she was paying out each month partly 
because its not possible to say how much was outstanding on the loans, and how much she 
would have had to pay in minimum payments towards her revolving credit. However on the 
basis of that statement it would have been clear that adding the loan instalment to her then 
current commitments would have made her credit commitments against her income to be 
very high. 
Ms W declared her income to be £1,400 a month. AvantCredit verified this at £1,619, and 
theres a note on its file that it was prepared to offer increased credit because of this. Ms W 
didnt take up that offer. Her bank statement only shows an income of £1,400, so that is the 
income that AvantCredit should have used to calculate affordability. Its further clear from the 
statement that Ms W was overdrawn each month, and her salary appeared to be fully 
committed.AvantCredit says that Ms W should have used the loan to pay off her credit commitments, 
bringing the ratio of income against commitments down to an affordable level. However it 
hasnt shown in its records that the loan was used for paying off specific loans/credit. It could 
have stipulated that in order to borrow the money, the loans/credit had to be paid off e.g. by 
paying the loan companies/credit providers out of the loan before providing any money to 
Ms W. It didnt do that and I think as a result the loan was unaffordable to Ms W. As Ive 
noted above although Ms W paid the loan off within the twelve months, its clear from the 
several returned payments that she struggled to do so. 
I think AvantCredit carried out proportionate checks. But on the basis of those checks, 
without ensuring the loans/credit were paid off, I dont think it made a fair lending decision in 
respect of this loan.
Putting things right
I think its fair that Ms W should repay the capital sum shes received as shes had the 
benefit of that. But I think AvantCredit should repay all the interest and other charges on the 
loan. It should:
refund all interest and charges Ms W paid on the loan.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date(s) 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.*
remove any negative information if appropriate about the loans from Ms Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman