DRN-3149523
The complaint
Mr H complains about the switch of his personal pension into a Carey Pensions (now 
Options Plc) Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) for the purpose of investing in 
development land in the Cayman Islands. Mr H says he was contacted by a business called 
IPL Services (IPL) who suggested investing his pension fund in land investments in the 
Cayman Islands. He says he was promised high returns. He says he was then introduced to 
a business called Crown Acquisition Worldwide Plc and also a business called Sovereign 
Asset Management (SAM). He does not believe the transfer was appropriate for him and 
says that he was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr H says he was contacted in 2011 by an unregulated business called IPL Services. 
Following that contact he switched his pension to Carey and invested in, or purchased 
an interest in, a plot of land in the Cayman Islands  described as Plot 27, Little Cayman 
LCW Block 99A Parcel 2. This was through an investment vehicle or company called 
Crown Acquisitions Worldwide. He invested £52,000.
After considering Mr Hs complaint, I issued a provisional decision on 8 October 2021. In the 
provisional decision I set out why I was minded to uphold the complaint and make an award. 
I have not received any further submissions from Options. 
Mr H has accepted the provisional decision. When doing so, he commented that, The 
original investment was 5-10 years and is stuck with solicitors after 11 years and going 
nowhere..  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have repeated here the material findings I reached in my provisional decision. Much of the 
comment will be the same.
Ive set out the various parties involved in Mr Hs pension switch and subsequent 
investment in detail below.
Carey (now Options Plc)
Carey is a SIPP provider and administrator. It was regulated by the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA) at the time of the events complained about  now the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It was  and still is  authorised to arrange (bring 
about) deals in investments; deal in investments as principal; establish, operate and 
wind up a personal pension scheme; and make arrangements with a view to 
transactions in investments.
IPL
There is little evidence as to the status of IPL or its operation. I have not seen evidence 
that it is still operating. There are no records on the FCA Register of it ever being a 
regulated business. However, Mr H has said that this business contacted him in 2011 and 
discussed investing his pension in land investments in the Cayman Islands. He says that 
business then introduced him to Crown Acquisition Worldwide Plc and SAM. As I will go 
on to discuss, there are some documents that indicate IPL was facilitating Mr Hs pension 
switch to the SIPP. I believe it is most likely that IPL was an unregulated business that 
contacted Mr H with a view to promoting an investment in land in the Cayman Islands. 
And then it introduced Mr H to SAM (a regulated business) and Crown Acquisition 
Worldwide Plc.
SAM
SAM is a business based in Gibraltar and regulated by the Financial Services 
Commission of Gibraltar. According to the FCA register, SAM has had some passported 
permissions with the FCA since 8 January 2009. The permissions recorded on the 
Register are:
A(1) Reception and transmission of orders in relation to one or more financial 
instruments A(2) Execution of orders on behalf of clients
A(4) Portfolio 
management A(5) 
Investment advice
SAMs permissions did not include providing advice as to pension transfers or opt outs.
According to information that has been provided, the company was part of a larger group 
called the Sovereign Group. The Sovereign Group has a range of international offices 
each regulated within its own specific jurisdiction.
SAM was formed as an asset management company. It provides investment advice 
and other management services.
Crown Acquisitions Worldwide/CrownWorld/CrownWorld Limited
The evidence indicates that these are a group of linked businesses specialising in 
overseas land or property developments/investments.
CrownWorld or CrownWorld Limited described itself in 2014 (and still does describe itself 
on its website) as offering, Global. Real Estate. Solutions. It referred, in an email dated 
10 July 2014, in respect of Cayman & Ocala investments, that, our investments are a 
medium to long term project (5  10 years).
Currently CrownWorlds marketing literature says that it, is now one of the market-
leading luxury real estate brands in the Cayman Islands, specialising in the acquisition of 
prime residential building plots and the delivery of turnkey design and build solutions. It 
also says that it is, Caymans Leading property specialist.
CrownWorlds contact details indicate it has a business address in the Cayman Islands 
but they also include a telephone number for an address in Cheshire, UK.Crown Acquisitions Worldwide Limited is registered with Companies House. It 
has a previous listed company name of Crown Acquisition Worldwide Plc.
The evidence is that these businesses are linked entities and are part of a business 
group. But what is material for the purposes of this complaint is that Mr Hs investment 
(which I will henceforth refer to as the Crown investment) was a purchase of an interest 
in a land plot in the Cayman Islands. The purpose of the investment was to invest in 
residential development land with the prospect of obtaining planning permission - and 
then selling the plot to property developers. The completion of the land purchase has not 
yet taken place. CrownWorld has said that infrastructure has been completed and 
investors have been asked to instruct solicitors to complete the purchase of title.
The relationship between SAM and Carey
The relationship between Carey and SAM came through contact with the main 
Sovereign Group based in the UK. Careys point of contact at the Sovereign Group 
was Mr S Denton and its contact with SAM was Mr C Walker.
In 2011, Carey say it had a meeting with Mr Denton - Managing Director of Sovereign 
Group. A follow-up email was sent by Carey on 4 September 2011, discussing the 
prospect of Sovereign Group working with Carey. After obtaining information about 
SAMs status and business model, Carey agreed to accept introductions from it with a 
view to setting up SIPPs for SAMs clients. This was with the intention that investment 
within the SIPPs would be made in CrownWorld investments.
The first pension scheme that Carey established that was introduced by SAM was on
11 November 2011 and the last scheme established was on 6 July 2012. The 
relationship ended in January 2013, when Mr C Walker, who was one of the advisers at 
SAM, stopped working for SAM. No further new business introductions were received 
from SAM after that point.
Mr Hs submissions
Mr H originally lodged his complaint with Carey on 4 February 2015. In brief, he said that 
he was unhappy with the investment he made in Crown and he was not given appropriate 
advice at the time he made the investment.
Carey did not uphold the complaint. In response to the complaint it said, in brief, that it 
had followed Mr Hs instructions to set up the SIPP and make the investment and it acted 
on an execution only basis. Carey said Mr H had signed declarations to that effect. It 
said that it was not responsible for the suitability of the pension switch to its SIPP, or the 
investment he made.
Mr H then referred his complaint to this service. When Mr H lodged his complaint with 
this service he said:
I am writing to complain about the handling of my personal pension fund. I was firstly 
contacted by a company called IPL services regarding moving my fund into land in the 
Cayman Islands. These were firstly email messages followed by phone calls. There 
were promises of high returns. Another company was introduced, Crown Acquisition 
Worldwide plc and also an advisory company called Sovereign Asset management. It 
did get a bit confusing. However, the pension scheme was run by Carey group authorised in the UK. I did not receive any advice as I was assured I was making a 
good investment.
In Mr Hs complaint form he noted SAM and Crown World as the adviser or business 
who originally sold the product or service.
Mr H has provided some further detail. He said that he made a general enquiry online 
regarding his pension. He said he then started receiving telephone calls from numerous 
companies. He said one of the first calls he received was from SAM, who were offering 
5% of the value of the pension as cash back. Mr H said that SAM told him this money 
was a goodwill gesture and not coming out of his pension fund. He said that SAM sent 
him the paperwork to sign. Mr H said he did not think he was correctly advised by SAM.
Mr H has explained that he, first came into contact with IPL after responding to an email 
that I had received. It, called him several times over a two to three week period. He says 
he was told that, the returns on these investments were doubling people's money and 
that, a payment of 5% of the value of the pension fund would be on offer as an incentive 
and would not come from the pension fund itself. Mr H says that, I was carrying out a lot 
of home improvements at the time and the commission from the transfer went towards the 
cost.
He also says that, Sovereign asset management was a name but I don't remember any 
contact with this company. A lot of the communication was from Crown world. The 
contact number and address for Sovereign was a Spanish address and phone number for 
a Carlo Walker. As Careys were my pension company I did not think this would be a 
problem dealing with a UK company.
Mr H confirms that, ..since investing my fund I was asked for £10 - 12000 for solicitors 
fees from Careys with regard to the plot of land. When I complained they gave me an 
option to sell it myself. The last statement I checked the fund was worth half the value I 
invested.
Mr H has confirmed that he does not have the resources to pay for the legal fees and 
has not therefore taken any further steps with regard to his investment or action in 
respect of having legal title to the land transferred.
Options investigation of Mr Hs complaint
In its response to the complaint, it:
Said Mr H instructed it to open his SIPP, transfer in his existing pension and 
make the CrownWorld investment. Careys dealings were with an introducer 
 SAM, and not IPL.
Said Carey did not provide advice in relation to the SIPP or subsequent 
investment. It acted on Mr Hs specific instructions. It acts on an execution only 
basis.
Said Carey is not responsible for the acts of IPL and it was not privy 
to any discussions Mr H had with it.
Said Carey has acted in a transparent and reasonable manner and treated 
Mr H fairly.
Set out various declarations Mr H had signed when setting up the SIPP.
Set out that its Terms and Conditions noted that it did not provide advice, was not responsible for any investment decisions the individual made and 
that it recommended that advice from a financial adviser is sought.
Said SAM acted as an introducer to it. It did not act inappropriately in 
accepting an instruction from SAM or an unlicensed broker. It is not liable for 
the actions of IPL or SAM. It cannot be held liable for Mr Hs decision to 
transfer or make the investment concerned.
Mr H was aware that he was investing in land in the Cayman Islands and that 
this was high risk and speculative  as this is indicated in the Member 
Declaration. The relevant declaration Mr H signed when making the 
investment set out that it was an alternative investment, considered high risk 
and/or speculative. This also confirmed Carey acted on an execution only basis 
in terms of the investment.
Mr Hs complaint was then considered by an investigator at this service. The 
investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Essentially the investigator said 
that he thought Carey should have been aware that Mr H was likely receiving advice 
from SAM to transfer his pension and make the investment SAM. And as SAM did not 
have FCA permissions to provide advice as to pensions and pension transfers, then 
Carey should have been aware that consumer detriment could result and declined to 
accept the transfer. The investigator thought that Carey had not acted correctly in terms 
of the FCA Principles.
Mr H accepted the investigators assessment.
Options did not accept the investigators assessment and made significant further 
submissions. I have considered those submissions in their entirety but, in summary, 
it:
Said that there was no consideration of the fact that Mr H came to it via an FCA 
regulated business, which was appointed on an execution only basis, not an 
advisory mandate as the investigator suggested. There was no evidence that 
SAM had provided any advice to Mr H and it was not informed of that  Mr H 
indicated he had not received any advice at the time. Mr Hs complaint should 
be against SAM. It was clear that SAM was introducing business on an 
execution only basis. On the introducer profile SAM made it clear it did not 
provide advice and it was not remunerated by the client. The Introducing 
Business to Carey Pensions document was a standard document and it did 
not mean that SAM was providing advice.
Said that the investigator had not considered the notices, guidance and risk 
warnings it provided to Mr H  which would have allowed him to make an 
informed decision about whether he wished to take advice on the transactions 
he was instructing it to undertake. Mr H should not have signed to say he 
understood the risk warnings and statements if he found them confusing as he 
says now. It was entitled to rely on the signed declarations that Mr H made.
Said that it acted on an execution only basis and didnt advise Mr H. And it 
made this clear to him. Its not allowed to give advice or comment on the 
suitability of investments.
Said that it had complied with the relevant FCA Principles. It did undertake 
due diligence as to SAM. It also had terms of business in place. It was aware of SAMs passported permissions. It acted on Mr Hs clear signed 
instructions after it had provided him with all the risk warnings.
Said that, following the due diligence it carried out on SAM, it did place a 
number of obligations on SAM before it would accept business from it. The 
Introducing Business to Carey Pensions document requires businesses to 
document their recommendations and that provision of advice is not a condition 
of Carey accepting introductions. SAM was also required to inform Carey if 
advice had been given. It was clear that SAM would not be providing advice, 
that Mr H appointed SAM on an execution only basis and that SAM did not hold 
the relevant passported permissions to advise on the transactions being 
undertaken.
Said that Options was not prohibited from accepting business from unregulated 
introducers or introducers with restricted FCA permissions. And following the 
completion of its review, it could find no reason not to accept introductions from 
SAM. So Options complied with FCA Principles 2 and 3. FCA Principle 6 was 
satisfied because of the literature it provided to Mr H and warnings he was given 
and declarations he completed. It also advised him to seek advice should he 
require it.
Said it was not aware of the other parties that Mr H had dealt with  Mr H did 
not inform it that he had dealt with other parties or businesses. Only SAM was 
noted on the SIPP application form.
Set out that, of the FCAs SIPP reports that the investigator referred to in his 
assessment, only the 2009 SIPP report existed at the point Mr Hs SIPP was 
set up. In terms of the 2012 report, it believes the standards set out are being 
applied with hindsight, the FCAs expectations of SIPP providers has evolved 
over time and the FCA has higher expectations now. It was not reasonable to 
apply these higher standards when considering Mr Hs transaction in 2011. The 
2012 report wasnt guidance and all it did was make suggestions. The other 
report the investigator referred to and Dear CEO letter referred to, werent 
relevant and its not fair and reasonable to consider the complaint in the 
context of them. The way the regulator expects the SIPP sector to implement 
the rules and Principles has developed over time and should not be applied 
retrospectively.
Said that, in any event, the SIPP reports are only guidance, not rules, and they 
make suggestions as to what steps a business might take. The ombudsman 
should state what legal liability it had and the duty of care it owed Mr H. It should 
take into account any legal liability or otherwise when arriving at a decision. It is 
being held liable for actions that took place before it became involved.
Set out the documents that Mr H had been provided with and signed  such as 
the application for the SIPP and the Terms and Conditions. It said these 
contained clear warnings about the fact that advice had not been given and 
that Mr H was acting on an execution only basis. And that he should seek out 
advice if he required it. The documentation also set out clearly that Mr H was 
investing in land in the Cayman Islands.
Said that Mr H chose to appoint SAM as his Investment Manager on an 
execution only basis, when there were options to indicate that SAM was being 
appointed on an advisory or discretionary basis. The instruction was in no way ambiguous. Carey concluded that Mr H did not wish or intend to be advised as 
it was clear from his instructions that he was appointing SAM on an execution 
only basis.
Said that Carey was not the cause of Mr Hs losses. Mr H was motivated by an 
inducement payment, and he signed various declarations setting out the risks. 
Mr Hs conduct has contributed to his losses. In all likelihood Mr H would have 
invested anyway  even if Options had declined to accept the business. He was 
driven by the cash incentive and would have found another way to invest  he 
would still have suffered the same losses. There is no reason to hold it liable for 
any losses.
Further Information
We asked Carey for some additional information about its relationship with SAM. It said:
Its relationship with SAM came about, through contacts with the main 
Sovereign Group based in the UK. Its specific contact was the Managing 
Director of Sovereign UK.
It classified SAM as a regulated introducer, but SAM did not provide pension 
transfer advice.
It did not pay SAM any commission or fees.
Its contact at SAM was Mr C Walker. He first introduced business to Carey on 
behalf of SAM in 2011. The last scheme that was introduced by SAM was 
established on 6 July 2012. Mr Hs scheme was established on 13 December 
2011.
An introducer profile for SAM was signed by SAM managing director Mr R 
Foster on 19 October 2011. Mr Foster also signed an Overseas Introducing 
Business to Carey Pensions - Roles & Responsibilities" form on 19 October 
2011. It said this was a generic form that regulated introducers and IFAs signed 
at the time. SAM also signed an Investment Agreement/Terms of Business on 
21 October 2011.
It carried out company checks on SAM - which included obtaining the 
Certificate of Incorporation and the Memorandum of Association. It obtained 
passports for the Directors of SAM.
There were 62 clients introduced by SAM to Carey Pensions in total. Four of 
these client applications were never progressed and were marked as Not 
Taken Up.
Therefore, no SIPP was established, nor any investments made for 
these four clients.
The first scheme that Carey established, that was introduced by SAM, was 
on 11 November 2011.
Out of the 58 clients whose applications proceeded, 50 appointed SAM as both 
their Financial Adviser and their Investment Manager (in an execution only 
capacity), one appointed SAM as their Investment Manager only (in an execution only capacity). Seven were introduced by SAM but were not 
appointed as the clients Financial Adviser or Investment Manager. None of the 
58 clients appointed had any other Investment Manager or Financial Adviser.
All of the investments made by clients introduced by SAM were unregulated.
The majority of clients instructed investment into Crown Acquisitions. This 
investment is the purchase of land plots in the Cayman Islands, for the purpose 
of obtaining planning permission and then selling the plots to property 
developers. 49 clients introduced by SAM invested in Crown Acquisitions. 10 
clients invested into Global Forestry Investments and two clients invested into 
Carbon Credits. Both the Global Forestry Investment and the Carbon Credit 
investments are valued at Nil.
Carey provided its members with numerous documents which set out the 
obligations, roles and responsibilities of both parties. These documents also 
contain information, risk warnings and guidance to seek regulated advice.
Carey received an email from Mr R Foster on 23 January 2013 confirming that 
Mr C Walker, who was one of the advisers at SAM and who was also working 
under one of their trading names, Walker Wealth, no longer worked for the firm 
as Walker Wealth was no longer trading. It said that all of his clients should be 
moved away from SAM. No further new business introductions were received 
from SAM.
The majority of members appointed SAM as their financial adviser and 
their investment manager and an adviser of that business signed the 
members SIPP applications confirming that he is their financial adviser 
and investment Manager.
Carey also supplied several documents:
Copies of SAM website pages in which it set out that it was a, fully regulated 
asset management company.. based in Gibraltar. It was noted that SAM is 
consequently authorised to passport its services into other EU countries.
It was also set out that:
SAM provides investment advice and other asset management services to 
Sovereign Group clients. As an independent asset manager, SAM is not tied to 
any financial institution in respect of its products and services. It can therefore 
offer genuinely impartial advice, as well as enhanced levels of oversight and 
security, to its clients.
And:
SAM's focus is on building strong, mutually beneficial relationships with its 
clients in order to offer a compelling and bespoke asset management service. 
SAM will first evaluate your financial background, requirements and objectives 
before formulating appropriate investment and risk strategies. Its goal is to help 
you grow your wealth.
A Gibraltar Financial Services Commission (FSC) record that showed SAM 
was authorised to provide certain financial services in Gibraltar. An FSC letter 
of 31 July 2008 set out SAM was permitted to carry out activities as a portfolio manager. An FSC schedule showed that this included portfolio management 
and investment advice.
A record of the FSA Financial Services Register for SAM. This recorded SAMs 
business address in Gibraltar. And it recorded that it was permitted to undertake 
certain activities in the UK effective from 8 January 2009. This included the 
provision of investment advice and transmission/execution of orders in certain 
financial instruments. The record did not include any history of disciplinary 
proceedings against SAM.
A Carey Independent financial adviser introducer profile which had been 
signed by Mr R Foster on 19 October 2011. This document set out that SAM 
was regulated in Gibraltar, it had five advisers but no pension advisers or 
pension transfer specialists. In terms of pensions established in the last 12 
months and/or pension transfer completed in the last 12 months, None was 
recorded. And what percentage of the firms business would be SIPPs was 
recorded as currently none. Handwritten on the document was the comment:
SAM provides a fund platform for introducing IFAs to use on QROPS. But we 
provide no advice, have no direct pension clients but do act as investment 
adviser to the scheme trustees
A typical client of the firm was noted to be a HNW (High Net Worth) Client. 
The investment strategy the business utilized within a pension scheme was 
Platforms and Crown Acquisition to be Used for SIPPs. The firms pension 
business was said to be growing.
As to other relevant information it was noted that, SAM Gibraltar has 
recently employed a new appointed rep specialising in SIPPS business 
but all on an execution only basis.
An Introducing Business to Carey Pensions - Roles & Responsibilities 
document which set out the role of the business making introductions. In 
general this set out that it was the introducing businesss responsibility to 
assess the clients financial
circumstances, suitability for a SIPP, suitability for a transfer and/or suitability 
of an investment.
A Carey Pension Scheme third Party Investment Agreement document for SAM.
In addition to these submissions I have seen the following documents:
An undated letter from IPL Services to Mr H. This says it encloses a Member 
Declaration and asks Mr H to sign that declaration and send it to Carey 
Pensions. The letter sets out that:
This will enable the process to be as quick as possible as all documents will 
be in place for when your funds arrive in your new SIPP.
The footer of the letter contains the following statement:
As mentioned previously we are not an advisory service and not here to offer 
you advise (sic) on the future of your pension We act solely as an introductory 
agent to the investment productA Carey SIPP application form which Mr H dated 5 December 2011. This set 
out that a transfer was to be made to the SIPP from Mr Hs existing pension 
scheme. The investment manager section set out that the investment manager 
was to be Mr C Walker who represented SAM. There was a statement in this 
section of the application which set out:
Please note: Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd will 
not at any point review any aspects of your appointed Investment Manager's 
financial status or investment and risk strategies.
Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd will also not 
have any involvement in your investment choices and selection, nor give 
advice on the suitability of your investment choices.
Your investment choices are the sole responsibility of you and/or your 
Financial Adviser/Investment Manager.
A box has also been ticked on that section of the application to indicate 
that the investment manager has been appointed on an execution only 
basis.
The Financial Adviser Details section has also been completed. This notes Mr 
C Walker as the contact and SAM as financial adviser. SAMs address in 
Gibraltar was noted. SAM was to be copied in to any correspondence. This 
section contains a declaration:
Please sign to confirm your agreement that the above detailed fees be paid to 
your adviser and that any changes to your Financial Adviser or any changes in 
fees will be supplied in writing and signed by both parties
Mr H and Mr C Walker (noted as the IFA) have signed this 
section. The declaration section of the application records:
I give my authority to accept correspondence by fax and email to Carey 
Pensions UK LLP and for Carey Pension Trustee UK Ltd to accept 
instructions by fax and
email from myself and my Financial Adviser from the email addresses detailed 
in this application.
And:
I understand that Carey Pensions UK LLP will in normal circumstances, 
send correspondence to my Financial Adviser unless I have stated 
otherwise.
I confirm that I wish for Carey Pensions UK LLP to appoint the Investment 
Manager as detailed in the application form.
I understand that it is my sole responsibility to make decisions relating 
to the purchase, retention or sale of any investment held within the 
Carey Pension Scheme.
And:I understand that Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK 
Ltd are not in anyway able to provide me with any advice.
I confirm that I am establishing the Carey Pension Scheme on an execution 
only basis.
A letter dated 13 December 2011 from Carey to Mr H confirming it had 
received his SIPP application form. It said the establishment date of his 
scheme was 13 December 2011.
An email from Carey to Mr C Walker of SAM dated 13 December 
2011 acknowledging receipt of the SIPP application.
A letter from Carey to Mr H dated 16 January 2012 which confirmed the 
transfer of his pension has been completed and about £54,000 has been 
received from the transferring scheme.
A Crown Acquisitions Worldwide Alternative Investment Member Declaration 
and Indemnity form which Mr H signed on 27 January 2012. He confirmed he 
wished to invest £52,000 to purchase land through Crown Acquisition 
Worldwide in the Cayman Islands. The declaration said, amongst other things:
I am fully aware that this Is investment is an Alternative Investment and as 
such is considered High Risk and/or Speculative.
I confirm that I have read and understood the documentation regarding this 
investment and confirm that I have taken appropriate advice, including but not 
limited to financial, tax and investment advice.
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis as directed by me as scheme 
member and confirm that neither Carey Pensions UK LLP nor Carey Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this 
Investment.
A letter from Carey to Mr H dated 31 January 2012, confirming that the investment 
of
£52,000 had been made in Crown.
A letter from Carey to Mr H dated 1 July 2015. This refers to Mr Hs investment 
Crown Acquisitions  Plot LDE L27 Little Dolphin Estate Cayman Brae. This 
describes his investment as: a residential building plot with outline planning 
permission.
The letter also sets out:
Crown World Ltd have informed us that the infrastructure around your plot has 
been completed and are now in a position to transfer the Title of your plot of 
land into the name of your pension scheme, which is the final part of the 
process. Carey Pensions are seeking quotes from Cayman Island based 
lawyers to verify that the infrastructure has been finished and to assist us with 
completions.So that your pension scheme can own title to your plot, we have been advised 
by Crown World Ltd that Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd will need to register as 
a foreign company in The Cayman Islands and we are currently seeking quotes 
from Cayman Island based lawyers to provide legal advice and to assist with 
this matter if necessary.
As previously mentioned, your plot of land has outline planning permission to 
build a residential property and a suite of architectural drawings for three 
designs were provided as part of your investment. Please note that owning a 
residential property within your SIPP will cause your pension fund to own 
'taxable property' under HMRC pension rules, therefore, the Purchase and Sale 
Contract requires the land to be sold before any development proceeds.
To enable your investment to remain outside of this HMRC rule. Crown World 
Ltd has requested that a Deed of Waiver is signed in relation to your plot, so that 
you do not have to obtain full planning permission when your pension receives 
Title to the land. This is a legal document and we are seeking quotes from 
Cayman Island based lawyers to provide legal advice as to whether this is a 
necessary process and to ensure your investment will continue to have the 
outline planning permission should it be recommended that the Deed is signed.
An Agreement of Purchase and Sale for Lot 27 dated 16 January 2012 
between Crown Acquisitions Worldwide Ltd and Carey. The agreement sets out 
that Crown Acquisitions Worldwide Ltd is the seller of Lot 27 and Carey is the 
Buyer. It is set out that Crown Acquisitions Worldwide Ltd is the owner of land 
in the Cayman Islands known as LCW Block 99A Parcel 2 and that it:
has obtained planning permission from the Central Planning Authority of 
the Cayman Islands to develop the property into a sub-division 
comprising various residential lots.
Also that:
The Seller has also arranged for the preparation of architectural plans and 
specifications for the construction of a residential home on the Lot and has 
further agreed to obtain the necessary approval of those plans and specifications 
from the Central Planning Authority of the Cayman Islands (the "CPA Approval" 
also known as HIAB Concept)
And:
COMPLETION
3.1 As soon as the Seller is registered with title to the Lot, the Seller will serve 
on the Buyer a written notice giving the Buyer twenty-one (21) days to complete 
the purchase of the Lot with the twenty first (21st) day being the "Completion 
Date"
A letter dated 9 September 2008 from the Planning Department Cayman 
Islands Government to Crown. This set out:
Re: Proposed Major Subdivision, CBC Block 99A 
Parcel 2 Dear (individuals name),At a meeting held on the 9th September 2008 the Board resolved to 
approve the application subject to the following
1) The road shall be built and paved to PWD and NRA standards,
2) All utility poles shall be erected
3) The surveyor's drawing shall be submitted to the Planning Office for approval 
prior to registration of the lots
A letter dated 23 October 2015 from Carey to Mr H. This set out:
Following our letter of 1st July 2015 I am now writing to provide you with 
further detail of the expected costs for completion of your plot purchase.
As outlined in the investment brochure, which you received prior to making the 
investment, there are a number of completion costs attributable to your 
investment, for example Stamp Duty Land Tax and other costs as there is with 
any property or land purchase. This letter provides you with more information 
about those costs and the next steps in the process.
Appointment of a Cayman Islands Legal Firm
To assist us in arranging the completion of the purchase of your building 
plot, we have received quotes from the following two law firms in The 
Cayman Islands..
A letter from Crown Acquisitions Worldwide Ltd to Mr H dated 2 February 2012 
which set out:
We confirm the receipt of your funds from your SIPP administrator, Carey 
Pensions on 2nd Feb 2012. In due course Carey's will be sending you a 
welcome pack further outlining your SIPP investment with us and providing you 
with details of your new scheme.
For further information please contact us directly on +44 (0)1704 551333 or 
email sales@crownworld.com at your earliest convenience. Alternatively 
please visit our website www.crownworld.com where you will find regular 
updates on all of our projects and company activity as well as interesting 
articles about the Cayman Islands and other investment related issues.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
In arriving at a decision that I believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I will 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. I have considered these matters in light of Careys further submissions to arrive 
at a decision that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my 
decision. The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include 
Principles 2, 3 and 6 which say:Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests 
of its customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the 
specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be 
an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would 
be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been 
produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty 
without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the 
Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the decision of 
an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The ombudsman 
considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He 
concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if 
it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out 
above, said (at paragraph 104):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new 
or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were 
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation 
described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all 
possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6.
The BBA judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in the Berkeley Burke case upheld the lawfulness of the approach 
taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included 
the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations 
that were required to be taken into account.
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of 
the High Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in 
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken 
account of both these judgments when making this decision on Mr Hs case.
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his 
initial case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the 
Principles to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of these 
judgments provide any assistance with the application of the Principles for Businesses, 
and in particular, they say nothing about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of 
statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles 
into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. 
And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in 
Berkeley Burke. So the Principles are a relevant consideration here and I will consider 
them in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I 
have considered them in their entirety).
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to 
ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a 
pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 
includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual 
risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer 
outcomes.We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them 
to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management 
information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed 
in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to confirm the position, or 
by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are 
not responsible for the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP operators that 
facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor 
advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of 
individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not 
safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the 
Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made 
to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and 
clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP 
business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or 
large transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted 
shares, together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This 
would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client 
or their adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was 
recommended. (my emphasis)
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and 
gathering and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such 
business. (my emphasis)Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 
and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is 
a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP 
operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer 
outcomes. The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the 
following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its 
approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and 
have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA 
website listings for un- authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and 
clarify the responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to 
a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being 
satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually 
small or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted 
shares which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, for example from the prospective member or their 
adviser, if it has any concerns. (my emphasis)
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as 
a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, 
is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder 
money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting 
business from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and 
retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring 
introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension 
schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators 
should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, 
HMRC is informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect 
of the introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate 
enhancing the processes that are in place in order to identify and 
mitigate any risks to the members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies 
House records, identifying connected parties and visiting 
introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has 
been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the 
minimum standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with 
introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments 
that have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets 
is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at 
point of purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment 
providers are credit worthy etc)
I acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) are 
not formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, I am of the view 
the fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal (i.e. statutory) 
guidance does not mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated.
The publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice at the relevant time. I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to 
take them into account.
I do not think the fact that the later publications (i.e. those other than the 2009 
Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of this complaint 
mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good practice 
at the time of the relevant events. It is clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, 
(and the Dear CEO letter published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP 
operators to have incorporated the recommended good industry practices into the 
conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some 
industry participants understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected 
of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards themselves had not 
changed.
The later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in 
accordance with those Principles. I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not 
consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO 
letter to be of relevance to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow 
that those publications are irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. I am required to take into account good industry 
practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I 
consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Careys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say 
the suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex 
to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Carey to ensure the 
investment in the Cayman Islands was suitable for Mr H. It is accepted Carey was not 
required to give advice to Mr H, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications 
do not alter the meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would 
bring about the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
I would also add, that even if I took the view that any publications or guidance that post- 
dated the events subject of this complaint do not help to clarify the type of good industry 
practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that does not alter my view on 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. That is because I find that 
the 2009 report together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what Carey 
could and should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the 
relevant time before accepting any introduction from SAM and/or allowing the investment 
into the SIPP.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Carey complied with 
its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and 
the publications listed above to provide an indication of what Carey could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations.
COBS2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of 
Adams v Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in 
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474.
I am of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply 
to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I do not say this means 
Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of both 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Hs case.
I acknowledge that COBS2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) was considered by HHJ Dight in the High 
Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 
2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA 
(the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had 
complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr 
Adams appeal did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight 
had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new 
case.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Hs complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.
I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference 
to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in 
doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This 
is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings 
in Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Carey was not obliged  and not 
able  to give advice to Mr H on the suitability of its SIPP or the Store First investment for 
him personally. But I am satisfied Careys obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business 
from particular businesses.
I acknowledge Options has applied to the Supreme Court for permission to appeal the 
Court of Appeal judgment and the outcome of that application is awaited. However, the 
grounds of appeal are in respect of issues not directly relevant to my determination of this 
case and therefore it is unnecessary to await either the consideration of the application or, 
if permission is granted, the Supreme Court judgment. I am satisfied it is appropriate to 
determine this complaint now.
What did Careys obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Carey was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business.
The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed 
by the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that 
a particular introducer is appropriate to deal with and a particular investment is an 
appropriate one for a SIPP.
I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, Carey 
was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, with 
the Principles in mind. It seems Carey had this understanding, given it accepts in its 
response to the investigators view that there were regulatory standards it had to meet.
The due diligence carried out by Carey on SAM and the Crown investment and 
what it should have concluded?
I have considered what a level of due diligence consistent with Careys regulatory 
obligations and the standards of good practice at the time ought to have revealed. And 
what, with those same obligations and standards in mind, Carey ought to have concluded 
about SAM and the Crown investment. And, when doing this, I have taken into account the 
evidence I have mentioned above.
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report deals specifically with the 
relationships between SIPP operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it gives 
non exhaustive examples of good practice. In my view, to meet these standards, and its 
regulatory obligations, set by the Principals, Carey ought to have identified a significant 
risk of consumer detriment arising from business brought about by a business introducing 
consumers to Carey which appeared to be specialising in one unusual unregulated investment, on an execution only (that is, non-advised) basis. And so Carey ought to 
have ensured it thought very carefully about accepting applications from SAM and, 
therefore, Mr H.
I think it is fair and reasonable to say such consideration should have involved Carey 
getting a full understanding of the business model of the introducer, the nature of the 
investments to be made and putting a clear agreement in place between it and the 
introducer and ensuring careful thought was given to the risk generally posed to 
consumers by the introducer.
Carey did gain some information about SAM, as I have detailed earlier in this decision. 
SAM indicated to Carey that it would introduce customers on an execution only basis and 
that most of the introductions would to be to set up SIPPs so that investment could be 
made in Crown land developments in the Cayman Islands. In my view, if Carey had 
carried out adequate due diligence on SAM (and, as I will discuss, the investment itself), 
and drawn reasonable conclusions from this, it ought to have been aware of several 
points of concern and to have concluded it should not accept this business from it is 
respect of Mr H.
In Careys Independent financial adviser introducer profile, SAM confirmed to Carey 
that it usually dealt with HNW clients and that investments to be made within the SIPPs 
would be in Crown developments in the Cayman Islands. It also confirmed that, SAM 
Gibraltar has recently employed a new appointed rep specialising in SIPPS business but 
all on an execution only basis.
So, Carey was aware that SAMs intention was to introduce non-advised customers to it 
so that investment could be made in Crown  an esoteric, unregulated, high risk 
overseas land development investment. As I referred to earlier, the FSA in 2009 had set 
out that an example of good practice would be for SIPP providers to be:
able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large transactions or 
more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that 
introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. 
from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was 
recommended.
These were exactly the kind of investments that Carey was told at the beginning of its 
relationship with SAM would be the investments chosen in respect of (an amount yet to 
be determined) SIPP applications. This should have been identified as anomalous 
because such investments are high risk and are therefore unlikely to be suitable for the 
vast majority of retail investors (such investments are only likely to be suitable, if at all, 
for a very small element of the investment portfolio of a sophisticated investor). In that 
respect, Carey was aware that Mr H was investing the majority of the sum transferred to 
its SIPP, into the unregulated investment.
Furthermore, SAM set out to Carey that, SAM Gibraltar has recently employed a 
new appointed rep specialising in SIPPS business but all on an execution only 
basis.
The FSA in its 2009 communication also set out that good practice would include:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Carey knew in advance that all the customers introduced to it by SAM would be 
transacting on an execution only basis. And indeed Mr Hs application was made on that 
basis, with declarations being submitted and completed indicating that he had not received financial advice.
Whilst SAM had informed Carey that it usually dealt with HNW clients, there was 
no indication in the documents submitted by SAM that Mr H was such a client or 
was a sophisticated or professional investor.
Carey was also aware, or should have been, that SAM did not have any regulatory 
permissions to advise on pension switches (transfers) or opt outs. SAM confirmed it had 
no history of providing advice as to pensions.
So Carey was aware that introductions were to be made by a business which had no 
history transacting SIPPs or giving advice as to pension or pension transfers, was based 
offshore, and had recently appointed an adviser whose role was to introduce non-advised 
customers to it so they could invest in a highly speculative, unregulated overseas land 
development investment.
Beyond SAMs basic business model, based on the evidence I have seen, it would not 
have been clear to Carey how the individuals introduced to it had arrived at the decision to 
invest in an esoteric unregulated investment. Based on the information it was given, Carey 
proceeded on the understanding that all introductions, an amount yet to be determined, 
would be made on this basis. So it was aware in advance that all the introductions made 
to it to open SIPPs and transfers of money to those SIPPs, would likely be so that pension 
funds could be placed in Crown investments.
That SAMs basic business model was introduce non-advised customers in order to set up 
and transfer pensions to a SIPP, should have given Carey concern. That this was clearly 
from a new line of business should have added to that concern. And the fact that the 
intention was for all such customers to invest in unregulated high risk esoteric offshore 
land investments should have further highlighted that concern. It should have been clear 
that customers detriment might result from that  something the FSA had highlighted 
significantly before Carey decided to accept this business.
As set out above, Principle 3 sets out that a firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems. So, I think Carey ought to have identified that introductions relating to one 
unregulated and esoteric investment from SAM was unusual and, given the nature of the 
investment, involved a high risk of consumer detriment.
Carey has said that no account has been taken of the fact that the introduction derived 
from a regulated business. SAM was regulated to conduct certain activities in the UK. But 
it is important to note that this did not include giving advice as to pension transfers or opt 
outs. SAM confirmed it did not have any advisers qualified to give pension advice and it 
also confirmed that it had not previously given pension advice or arranged SIPPs. That is 
likely the reason why its introductions to Carey were on an execution only (i.e. non-
advised) basis. Furthermore SAM was based in Gibraltar and was regulated by FSC - 
because of that it has passported permissions in the UK  as set out above. So I do not 
believe, given the other evidence I have discussed, that Carey should have drawn any 
particular comfort or confidence from the fact that SAM had regulated status in the UK 
when considering the nature of business it was transacting.
So, if Carey was meeting its regulatory obligations, it ought to have had adequate risk 
management controls in place to have allowed it to conclude very quickly that there was 
a high probability that the business introduced by SAM carried with it a high risk of 
significant consumer detriment. I do not think it was fair and reasonable for Carey to 
accept Mr Hs application in such circumstances.
Given the matters I have discussed, I do not believe Carey should have accepted Mr Hs 
introduction from SAM, set up the SIPP or facilitated his pension switch without 
undertaking further investigation. To do so would be failing in his responsibilities under the Principles I have discussed.
When arriving at this view I have taken into account the nature of the investment itself 
and what Carey could have discovered about it, with a reasonable level of due 
diligence.
The investment
The evidence indicates that Crown Acquisitions Worldwide Ltd had title to undeveloped 
land in the Cayman Islands  said to be LCW Block 99A Parcel 2. That land was set to 
be subdivided into smaller parcels and the evidence is that it was one of those parcels, 
Lot 27
that was to form Mr Hs investment. Crown Acquisitions Worldwide Ltd then entered into 
an agreement with Carey (on behalf of Mr H) to sell it Lot 27 once it had obtained title 
to that parcel and planning permission had been approved. Mr H was effectively buying 
the right (with his SIPP value) to future ownership of a parcel of residential development 
land.
As discussed, the evidence indicates that Carey was aware in advance of the introduction 
of Mr H that the investment was likely to be a Crown investment. This service has asked 
Options what due diligence it undertook as to this investment but we have not received a 
response. Therefore it is unclear what investigations Carey undertook to satisfy itself that 
the Crown investment was appropriate for investment within a SIPP.
Mr Hs investment was an interest in land overseas. He obtained the right to that land 
should Crown obtain various permissions and carry out certain undertakings. The value 
and future prospects of Mr Hs investment would therefore be materially determined by 
Crowns success or otherwise in obtaining those permissions and carrying out those 
undertakings. It would then depend on the prospects of there being a market for that land 
after Mr Hs SIPP had obtained title and the planning permission had been obtained.
Carey understood the SIPP was buying land. The member declaration says:
I [name] being the member of the above scheme instruct Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd 
to purchase land through Crown Acquisitions Worldwide in the Cayman Islands, for a 
consideration of £52,000 on my behalf for the above Scheme.
I confirm I wish my scheme to purchase the land outright
I agree and confirm that the land will be sold prior to any residential development.
Bearing in mind the evidence I have seen, Mr H, nor his SIPP, had actual title to the land 
in question. Mr Hs SIPP also entered into an agreement  and paid a fee  appointing 
Crown Acquisition to re-sell the land once planning permission had been obtained.
I havent seen that any UK legal advice was obtained or seen by Carey in respect of the 
land purchase. I would expect that it would have been reasonable in the circumstances, 
and the usual course of action, with a land purchase  especially an overseas land 
purchase of this nature - to obtain such.
This was an unregulated investment and illiquid. There was no ready market for it and its 
value was uncertain and difficult to assess. As discussed, the future prospects of the 
investment were dependent on a number of factors and there could be a total loss of 
value. This was the kind of esoteric high risk investment that was referred to by the FSA 
in its 2009 report (as referred to earlier). And here it was an investment supplied by a small company with limited track record.
So Carey sent most of Mr Hs pension funds to a small business for a land purchase 
without actually obtaining title to that land  on the basis that at some point in the future 
that business would obtain and grant title to that land to Mr Hs SIPP  and only then if 
Crown was successful in obtaining the requisite permissions.
With reference to Mr Hs comment in response to the provisional decision, I did take into 
account the fact that the evidence shows Carey understood Mr Hs SIPP was purchasing 
land outright but also suggests that Mr Hs SIPP didnt acquire title to the land in question. 
As discussed, I have not seen any evidence that Carey obtained  or required Mr H to obtain 
- at the time of the transaction any legal advice as to potential legal title, how that title might 
actually be acquired, when it might be acquired and what steps would be required to obtain 
it. These are all matters which, acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations, 
Carey should have explored at the time when carrying out its due diligence on the 
investment. Mr Hs comment highlights this issue  he is now faced with potentially arranging 
title of some sort to the land at a cost he is not able to meet. These matters should have 
been taken into account with the other factors I have discussed when considering whether to 
accept Mr Hs SIPP application and the investment itself. 
Carey was aware that such investments were to form the majority of introductions from 
SAM. In my view it should have had concerns that a volume of this type of business would 
be introduced by SAM and whether consumer detriment would occur. Whilst Carey did not 
have a duty to assess the suitability of an investment for Mr H it should have been alive to 
the potential for individuals introduced to it to suffer detriment as a result of placing their 
pension funds into such an investment. To accept and facilitate the investment without any 
due diligence being undertaken (there is currently no evidence of such) would not be 
treating Mr H fairly and Carey should have been aware that Mr H could suffer detriment.
Other matters relevant to the investment
I believe it is also relevant to consider other information which Carey should have been 
aware of at the time it set up the SIPP and allowed the investment in the Crown 
investment. Before Carey did so there was published commentary from the FSA about 
retail customers being promoted unregulated investments, or being advised to invest in 
such.
In July 2010 the FSA published its findings as to a review it had undertaken into the 
promotion of Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS) by small financial 
adviser firms, and/or the advice given by such businesses to consumers to invest in such 
schemes. It had significant concerns. It found that a very high proportion of small 
businesses had been non-compliant in their promotion of UCIS and, The most common 
reason for this non- compliance was found to be the firms lack of knowledge and 
awareness of regulatory requirements for the promotion of UCIS... The FSA also had 
significant concerns about the advice given in relation to such investments. It said that:
We were disappointed that our project identified only two firms out of our sample of 14 
that appeared to adequately understand, and had adequately implemented, the 
regulatory requirements for UCIS business where we also identified no concerns with the 
advice that they had given. In contrast, we have identified a wide range of poor practice 
at the other 12 firms that we reviewed.
One of the material issues the FSA identified in respect of UCIS sales was:The firms recommended customers to invest, or transfer, a high proportion of their 
investment or pension portfolio into UCIS, which resulted in the portfolios risk 
tolerance being misbalanced and not matching the customers overall attitude to risk, 
as well as not matching the customers needs and objectives.
In 2011, before Mr Hs introduction to Carey, Tom Spender, head of retail enforcement at 
the FSA, said in relation to findings in respect of the sales of UCIS by a financial business:
Ucis are rarely suitable for retail investors. Many are characterised by a high degree 
of volatility, illiquidity or both, and are therefore usually regarded as speculative 
investment.
Even when they are recommended they are unsuitable for anything more than a small 
share of a portfolio.
He added:
We want firms to read the details of this case, along with the findings of our 
[thematic] review and other recent publications on Ucis and learn from them.
Here the FSA was discussing UCIS promotions and advice provided by small businesses, 
not SIPP providers. I am not suggesting that Carey had any part in the sale or promotion 
of an unregulated investment to Mr H, and the evidence is that it played no part in that. I 
am not suggesting that the FSAs statements are relevant to Carey in that context or it had 
any responsibilities to Mr H as to the suitability of the Crown investment for him or its 
promotion. But I do believe the findings of the FSA are relevant background to the 
environment in which Carey accepted Mr Hs application for a SIPP and investment. This 
was publicly available information about the concerns the regulator had as to the 
promotion and/or advice given in relation to unregulated investments. Carey should have 
been aware of it.
I also recognise that the FSA was discussing UCIS. It is unclear whether the Crown 
investment was an unregulated collective investment scheme for the purposes of the 
applicable legislation. But the findings are clearly analogous to the situation here where 
an unregulated investment is being arranged by a small business.
In summary
Viewed holistically, Carey should have had concerns with both the nature of the business 
to be introduced by SAM and the investment itself. When viewing these issues in 
combination there should have been significant concern that this may not be in the best 
interest of Mr H, who could have been (and in fact was) a financially unsophisticated 
investor.
To be clear, Im not making a finding that Carey should have assessed the suitability of 
the Crown investment for Mr H. I accept Carey had no obligation to give advice to Mr H, 
or to ensure otherwise the suitability of an investment for him. My finding isnt that Carey 
should have concluded that Mr H wasnt a candidate for high-risk investment. Its that 
Carey should have significant concerns about accepting Mr Hs application for his SIPP 
so that an investment could be made in the Cayman Islands and accepting the 
investment itself bearing in mind the information it should have had and was aware of, 
and the particular circumstances applying here.
I am satisfied Carey could have identified the concerns I have mentioned, and ought to 
have drawn the conclusion I have set out, based on what was known at the time. It ought 
to have identified significant points of concern, and these ought to have led it to conclude it should not accept the SIPP application and Crown investment. It ought to have known 
there was a high risk of consumer detriment as to Mr H and it should have had cause for 
concern that accepting the application from Mr H was unlikely to be in his best interests. I 
do not believe it fulfilled its responsibilities under the Principles  particularly Principles 2 
and 6.
I say this because:
Carey was aware that SAM did not have any history or background in 
arranging pensions or giving advice as to pensions.
Carey was aware that introductions from SAM would all be on an execution 
only basis.
Carey was aware this was new venture by SAM, derived from its association 
with one, newly appointed, adviser.
It was unclear to Carey how the individuals to be introduced to it had made 
the decision to invest in one particular overseas unregulated and high risk 
investment.
SAM was based overseas and regulated in Gibraltar but dealing with UK 
based customers.
Carey was aware that all, or the majority, of the introductions to be made were 
with the intention to invest in unregulated, esoteric and high risk development 
land in the Cayman Islands, investments that would only usually be suitable for 
a minority of knowledgeable, sophisticated or professional investors.
It had no particular information that would lead it to believe or should have 
led it to believe that Mr H was a knowledgeable, sophisticated or professional 
investor.
The customers introduced to it could well be ordinary financially 
unsophisticated individuals.
Carey should have been aware of the nature of the investment and that it was 
based overseas, was speculative, high risk and unregulated. The where the real 
potential for the total loss of the investment.
It facilitated the investment aware that the vast majority of Mr Hs pension 
money transferred to it was being invested in one esoteric high risk unregulated 
overseas investment. Such investment creates foreseeable issues with Mr Hs 
pension - due to the likely issues with liquidity, valuation and the provision of 
income.
Carey should have been aware of the general concerns of the regulator 
about the promotion of unregulated schemes.
Arguably, no one of these factors in isolation should have necessarily given Carey cause 
for concern. But, based on the available evidence at the time, in combination I think there 
were sufficient points of concern associated with Mr Hs application, which ought to have 
been apparent, based on what was known by Carey and what it ought to have known had 
sufficient due diligence been undertaken, to reasonably lead it to conclude there was a 
significant risk of consumer detriment.
Did Carey act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Hs instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Carey simply should have refused to accept Mr Hs 
application. So things should not have got beyond that. Had Carey acted in accordance 
with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it is fair and reasonable in my view to 
conclude that it should not have accepted Mr Hs application to open a SIPP.My remit is, of course, to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just asking Mr 
H to sign declarations was not an effective way for Carey to meet its regulatory 
obligations to treat him fairly, given the concerns Carey ought to have had about his 
introduction and the investment.
Having identified a risk, it is my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do would be to 
refuse to accept this application from SAM and the investment in Crown not put in 
place a process asking customers to sign declarations in an attempt to absolve itself of 
responsibility. I dont think the declarations Mr H signed meant that Carey could ignore 
its duty to treat him fairly.
I am also satisfied that, had Carey not accepted Mr Hs application to open a SIPP 
introduced from SAM, the arrangement for Mr H would not have come about in the first 
place, and the loss he suffered could have been avoided. SAM was clearly reliant on 
Carey to facilitate things  but for Careys acceptance of the application, Mr Hs application 
wouldnt have been able to proceed.
Carey might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Mr Hs application, 
had it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that Carey should not 
compensate Mr H for his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator 
would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume 
that another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good 
industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the application.
Carey has also said that the payment Mr H received as a result of his application for the 
SIPP and investment was a material reason why he wanted to undertake the transaction 
and he would have found another way to make the pension investment in Crown. I do not 
agree. Firstly, as discussed, I dont believe another pension provider would have accepted 
the application.
But in any event, Mr H has said that the payment to be made to him after the application 
had been made was described to him as cash back and a goodwill gesture and was 
not being taken from his pension fund. I have not seen any evidence that Mr H should had 
seen this payment as anything other than a reward payment by the companies involved 
for
acceptance of his business. At 5% of the investment amount this payment would have 
likely been around £2500  that being 5% of the money invested. Whilst not insignificant, I 
dont believe that is the level of sum that was so attractive to Mr H that he would have 
sought to make the transfer in any event  especially if it had been declined by a SIPP 
provider. Mr H has said that he used the cashback to supplement money he used for 
home improvements and the payment was just something that was due as additional 
benefit of the transfer  the material reason for the transfer being that he was told his 
pension benefits would be significant improved.
So I do not believe that the payment was a material factor in Mr H making the 
investment and switching his pension, or it was the overriding reason why he made his 
decision to proceed.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Hs actions 
mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of Careys failings. For the reasons I have 
set out, I am satisfied that the application should never have been accepted in the first 
place.Putting things right
Bearing this in mind and that I have not received any further submissions to my provisional 
decison, having reviewed the complaint, I would confirm that my decision remains that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
   
I am satisfied that Careys failure to comply with its regulatory obligations at the relevant 
time  led to Mr H switching his existing pension to a SIPP when he would not have 
otherwise have done so. And that led to the investment of the majority of his pension 
funds in an inappropriate investment. Bearing that in mind, my aim is to return Mr H to the 
pension position he would now be in but for Careys failings.
So Options should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to 
the position Mr H would be in if he had not switched from his existing pension to the 
Carey SIPP.
In considering how to fairly compensate Mr H, I have noted that the current status of his 
investment is uncertain. The evidence indicates that it is possible that Mr H may now be in 
a position to have legal title to the land transferred into his name. However Mr H has said 
that he has been advised that this will cost around £10,000 to £12,000 in legal fees, which 
he cannot afford. And it is my understanding that he has not undertaken to have the legal 
title transferred to him. These legal costs are clearly fees that he would not have had to 
pay had the investment not gone ahead. I have taken this into account when suggesting 
fair compensation.
In summary, Options should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr H has suffered as a result of making the switch.
2. Take ownership of the Crown investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Hs pension. If that is not possible, pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr H direct. In either case the payment should 
take into account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr H has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Options should work out the likely value of Mr Hs pension as at the date 
of my final decision, had he left it where it was instead of switching to the SIPP.
Options should ask Mr H's former pension provider to calculate the current notional 
transfer value had he not switched his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining 
a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index 
should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr H has suffered. The Crown investment should be assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of 
the cash back payment paid out to Mr H.
2. Take ownership of the Crown investment
Ideally Options should take ownership of the Crown investment and arrange any 
necessary measures, including legal work, to do so at its own cost. If Options is unable 
to take ownership of the Crown investment it should remain in the SIPP. But if Options 
is unable to take ownership of the Crown investment (and it cant otherwise be 
removed from the SIPP), it should waive any fees associated with the SIPP, until such 
a time as the SIPP can be closed. Options would also need to meet the cost of any 
legal fees Mr H might be compelled to pay to have legal title to the land transferred to 
him. 
Provided Mr H is compensated in full, Options may ask Mr H to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may 
receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any 
tax and charges on the
amount Mr H may receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be 
able to access from the SIPP. Options will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Mr H for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr H has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the 
loss should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may 
mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to 
notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr H could claim. The notional allowance 
should be calculated using Mr Hs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr H may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr H direct. But had it been possible to pay 
the compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, 
the compensation for the loss paid to Mr H should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Hs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr H is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a 
reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr 
H would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr H has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of a significant 
part of his pension benefits and the fact that he has not been able to access those 
benefits. I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that 
upset.
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Options 
receives notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added 
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman