DRN-4154987
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) restricted and closed his accounts 
without explanation. He also complains it has failed to give him an explanation when it said it 
would. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr C says he tried to make a nominal payment on his debit card, but it was 
declined. He says he called Barclays and was told the account had been blocked and was 
under investigation. 
The accounts were unblocked around five days later. In September 2022, Mr C was sent a 
letter of notification that his accounts with Barclays will be closed in 62 days time. Mr C was 
told he could continue to bank with Barclays up until the exit date of 2 November 2022. 
Mr C thinks Barclays took the actions it did because he used his account for transactions 
related to his business. He says he had to do this as his business was operating and he 
couldnt get a business account opening appointment with Barclays for around two months 
time. 
Mr C also says he was told he would get an explanation, but none was ever given by 
Barclays. Unhappy with Barclays actions, Mr C complained. Barclays then sent Mr C its final 
response. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, and in summary made the following key 
points: 
- Barclays decided to close Mr Cs accounts in August 2022 after an internal review. Its 
not possible for Barclays to give Mr C an explanation, but it had made the correct 
decision about closing his accounts
- The account was closed in line with the terms and conditions of the account
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it, and made 
the following findings: 
- Banks are under numerous legal and legal regulatory obligations. Barclays acted 
fairly when closing his account and it cant share the reasons for this with Mr C. 
Barclays also restricted and closed the accounts in line with its terms and conditions 
- Barclays should pay Mr C £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused by telling him it would give him an explanation 
Barclays agreed with what our Investigator said. Mr C didnt. He says he didnt breach any 
rules or terms of the accounts - and he still hasnt been given an explanation. 
As Mr C didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Barclays, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Barclays have explained, and given me evidence, to show why it restricted Mr Cs accounts. 
Having carefully reviewed this information, Im satisfied it acted in line with its obligations 
when it restricted Mr Cs account. I appreciate this caused Mr C embarrassment and 
inconvenience as he couldnt make a debit card payment. But Barclays was acting in line 
with the legal and regulatory obligations it must follow. 
Barclays is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Barclays closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and Mr C had to comply with, say 
that it could close the accounts by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Having looked at the information given to me by Barclays, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the accounts in the way that it has done.  Barclays had written to Mr C to explain its 
actions on the 1 September 2022. I know Mr C would like an explanation as to why Barclays 
closed his accounts. But Im not aware of any obligation under which it must. So I wont be 
directing it to do so. 
Mr C says this matter has caused him caused him embarrassment, trouble and upset. I do 
appreciate it wouldve caused him some difficulty  especially as he had to borrow money. 
But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I 
might make an award against Barclays for restricting and closing Mr Cs accounts. Thats 
because I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it closed Mr Cs 
account, and importantly, did so in line with its obligations and terms of account.  
Mr C says he was told by Barclays that it would give him an explanation when he first raised 
the matter with it. Mr Cs testimony has been persuasive about this point. Hes maintained 
throughout with Barclays, and when referring his complaint to this service, that he was told 
an explanation would be given. So I think its most likely this is what happened. 
Given Im looking at this error of poor communication in isolation, Im persuaded £50 is fair 
compensation for any inconvenience and distress relying on it has caused Mr C.    
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC must now pay 
Mr C £50 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman