DRN-3160964
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T held a comprehensive annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great
Lakes.
Mr and Mrs T were due to travel abroad, to a country Ill call A, in April 2020.
On 14 March 2020, the government in A announced upcoming travel restrictions preventing
most British nationals from entering the country due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. On 15 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel
to A from midnight the following day.
As A had stopped airlines from entering the country, Mr and Mrs T made a claim under their
travel insurance policy with Great Lakes for their non-refundable accommodation costs in A.
Great Lakes said their claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy
which they held.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T complained to Great Lakes before bringing their complaint to the
attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said, although Mr and Mrs Ts claim
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy, she thought it would be fair
and reasonable for Great Lakes to assess their claim regardless. Our investigator said she
didnt think the effect of the policy  whereby Mr and Mrs T had no cover if they travelled
against FCDO advice but also had no cover if they cancelled their trip due to changes in
FCDO advice  had been brought to their attention in a clear, prominent and transparent
way.
Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so Mr and Mrs Ts complaint was 
referred to me. I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ts complaint in October 
2021. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when reaching my provisional decision.
I understand the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ts trip was outside of their control and arose
from an unexpected and unprecedented situation. But no insurance policy covers every
eventuality and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept in
return for the payment of a policy premium. Therefore, Great Lakes obligations to Mr and
Mrs T under its contract with them are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions which
are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy, at page 15 under the heading Section 1 Cancellation says Great
Lakes will pay for certain costs if one of the following listed, insured events happens. These
are:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or
advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under
current legislation applicable within your home country.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary,
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all
but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood or
hurricane.
Mr and Mrs Ts trip was cancelled because A stopped airlines from entering the country from
16 March 2020 because of Covid-19. This isnt a listed reason for which their policy provides
cover, so I dont think their claim is covered under the Cancellation section of their policy.
Alternatively, even if I were to accept that FCDO advice against travel was the reason for the
cancellation of their trip, this advice wasnt issued due to an earthquake, fire, flood or
hurricane. Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ts insurance policy
(including Section 5 Travel Delay) but I dont think Mr and Mrs T held any cover which
would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves in.
I understand Mr and Mrs T held a comprehensive policy and they didnt know about the
pandemic when they bought their policy  but this doesnt mean they had cover for every
situation. The policy, under Section 14 Optional Travel Disruption Extension, does provide
certain benefits in the event of the FCDO advising against travel more generally but the
policy says:
PLEASE NOTE: this section of cover will only apply if you have paid the required
additional premium and it is shown on your Validation Certificate.
Mr and Mrs T didnt pay to purchased Optional Travel Disruption Extension cover, so I cant
fairly ask Great Lakes to assess their claim under this section of the policy.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ts policy says no cover is provided if
the policyholder travels to a country where the FCDO has advised against all or all but
essential travel  so, theyd have had no cover if theyd gone ahead and travelled (in the
event that it was possible to do so) but they also had no cover when they cancelled their trip.
And I agree with our investigator, based on the content of the Insurance Product Information
Document and the policy terms and conditions, that Mr and Mrs T werent clearly signposted
to the combined effect of the policy in this regard.There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and
transparently highlighted to a policyholder certain provisions relating to claims for changes in
FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it was fair and
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy
terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask
Great Lakes to do so here.
This is because the Cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ts policy also says;
What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2
16. prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country
I think the government restrictions in A due to the spread of Covid-19 led to the cancellation
of Mr and Mrs Ts trip. So, not only is the reason for the cancellation of their holiday not
covered as a listed, insured event under their policy, I think the exclusion quoted above
applies to the circumstances of this claim anyway.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms
and conditions of their policy and I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably by
declining their claim. So, overall, I dont currently intend to recommend that Great Lakes
should do anything more.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision and said it had no further comments to add. 
Mr and Mrs T responded to my provisional decision to say they were disappointed with my 
findings. They reiterated that theyd purchased their comprehensive policy before the Covid-
19 pandemic and have questioned what would have happened if theyd travelled to A 
against FCDO advice (if it had been possible to do so). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs T bought their insurance before Covid-19 could have been 
anticipated by either insurers or by policyholders and I also understand that they purchased 
a comprehensive insurance policy. But, only the Optional Travel Disruption Extension 
cover (which Mr and Mrs T unfortunately didnt buy) provides for Great Lakes to pay for the 
cancellation of a holiday due to the FCDO advising against all but essential travel on a wider 
basis than for reasons of earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy contains a general exclusion relating to travelling against FCDO 
advice. So, they wouldnt have had any cover under their insurance policy if theyd gone 
ahead and travelled to A regardless (in the event that it was possible to do so). 
I accept that this left Mr and Mrs T in a position where they werent covered if they travelled 
on their holiday, but they also werent covered when they cancelled their holiday. However, 
because Mr and Mrs T didnt purchase Optional Travel Disruption Extension cover and also 
because the policy which they did hold contains a specific exclusion in the cancellation 
section relating to prohibitive Government regulations, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to pay their claim.   
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman