DRN-2773995
The complaint
Miss W has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Miss W took out the PPI policy alongside a store card she applied for in March 2002.
The policy cost no more than £1 per £100 of Miss Ws outstanding monthly statement
balance. And if she was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off
15% of that balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Miss W
returned to work.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion, so the
complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2021 and 
explained that I didnt think the complaint should be upheld, so I gave Miss W and AXA an 
opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
AXA had to make it clear to Miss W that the policy was optional, and it had to get her
consent before applying PPI to her account. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because
AXA wasnt able to provide a copy of Miss Ws completed application form, so they didnt
think AXA had provided enough information to show Miss W chose to take the PPI. AXA said
Miss W would have had to opt for PPI on her store card agreement.
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much
information. Because of this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened
when the PPI was sold.
Miss W hasnt said she wasnt aware the policy was optional or that she didnt agree to take
it  only that she didnt understand what it was. Over the years, weve seen a number of AXA
cases involving various methods of sales from around the same period Miss W would have
been sold her PPI. Using what I know generally of AXAs sales practices at the time, I think
its more likely than not Miss W would have been given an option to take out the PPI and that
AXA would have gained her consent before adding it to her store card account.
AXA says it didnt give Miss W any advice, but Miss W says it did. Ive thought about what
both parties have said, but Miss W could not remember how the policy was sold, so I dont
think its likely shed remember whether she was given any advice or not. Its my 
understanding that AXA didnt usually offer advice and Miss W said herself that she didnt
understand what the policy was. So, for these reasons, I dont think its likely AXA gave
Miss W any advice. That means AXA didnt have to check the policy was right for Miss W,
but it did need to give her enough information about the PPI, so she could decide whether to
take it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But Miss W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the
policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual employment
circumstances. And based on what I know about her circumstances, it looks like the policy
could have been useful to her, so I dont think better information would have stopped her
buying it. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Miss W.
Miss W says she cant remember whether she was entitled to any sick pay from her
employer. But she says she had other means that would have lasted her for at least 12
months. I asked Miss W for more information about this, but her representative said that she
hadnt replied and asked me to proceed with the information I already had.
The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss W may have received and
potentially for longer. Miss W could also have made repeat claims subject to a requalification
period. So, based on everything Ive seen so far, I dont think better information would have
changed Miss Ws decision to take the policy and I think it could have been useful to her. It
follows, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has not responded to my provisional decision and AXA has sent an email with 
another copy of the its files, but it has not provided any further comments about the 
provisional decision. 
As Ive not received any further comments to consider, or any new information that would 
change my initial findings, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision, for the same reasons. That means I dont think Miss Ws PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman