DRN-3126301
The complaint
Mr H says Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
In April 2019 Everyday Loans gave Mr H a loan for £2,000 to be repaid over 24 months. The 
monthly repayment was £234.43 and the total amount to be repaid (including interest) was 
£5,626.32 if the loan ran to full term. 
Mr H, together with his representatives, complain that the loan was unaffordable for him and 
as such shouldnt have been lent. Mr H says that if Everyday Loans had looked at his bank 
statements it would have seen from the way he was handling his money that he wasnt in a 
position to afford the loan. Mr H has also said that he subsequently needed to consolidate 
the loan into a further loan with lower monthly repayments. 
In response to the complaint Everyday Loans disagreed it lent irresponsibly. It says Mr H 
provided copies of two months bank statements and a payslip. In addition, it completed a 
credit search and estimated Mr Hs expenditure using ONS data. From this it calculated that 
Mr Hs monthly income (including child benefit) was £2,630.70 and it estimated Mr H had a 
monthly disposable income of £998.10 after repaying the loan in question. So it didnt agree 
that Mr H couldnt afford to repay the loan. 
Unhappy with Everyday Loans response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. She concluded that Everyday 
Loans had enough information to show Mr H was experiencing problems managing his 
money. She highlighted that the credit search results completed by Everyday Loans show an 
active default to a communications provider from August 2018 for £499 and at the time of 
lending the balance outstanding was £429. In addition, the results showed another default 
for £62 around two weeks prior to this loan being agreed and a credit card with a balance of 
£191 which was close to the £200 limit on the account. She also highlighted that Mr Hs bank 
statements show he was making several monthly payments to a debt management 
company.
Everyday Loans disagreed with the investigators assessment and in the following email 
exchange it made a number of points. Everyday Loans said that Mr H provided a reasonable 
explanation for his credit history saying that he had gotten into difficultly after a car accident 
and being out of work. It also argued that his bank statements showed Mr H was paying 
back his debts to a debt management company. With regards to the credit card, it argued 
that being close to the limit on such a small limit isnt a reason not to lend and given the 
balance was under the limit this shows the credit card account was well managed. Finally it 
also didnt agree that a default of £62 showed Mr H was having sufficient issues in managing 
his money.
The investigator argued that, given the £62 default was recent and Mr H hadnt made 
payments towards this debt for several years prior to default, Everyday Loans should have 
questioned this further. In particular, she thought it shouldve caused Everyday Loans to 
question whether Mr H really had over £900 monthly disposable income that it calculated 
after the repayment for the loan in question. In addition, she argued that as the loan didnt 
consolidate debt, it increased Mr Hs indebtedness at a time when he was clearly 
experiencing problems.
As an agreement couldnt be reached Everyday Loans asked for an ombudsman to consider 
the complaint, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it lent responsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure etc.
Ive considered the information that Everyday Loans gathered as a result of the checks it 
completed (detailed above), and I think that it had sufficient information to demonstrate that 
Mr H couldnt afford to sustainably repay this loan. 
Looking at the credit search results which Everyday Loans gathered, I can see Mr H had a 
default from a communications supplier in August 2018. Whilst the loan wasnt until April 
2019, the default was still active and only £70 of the outstanding balance had been repaid in 
the intervening months. In addition, Mr H had a default for £62 from another communications 
supplier around two weeks prior to taking out this loan and he hadnt made payments 
towards this debt for a substantial period of time. These are clear indications that Mr H was 
having difficulties managing his money leading up to the loan in question and suggest that 
Mr H was unlikely to be able to sustainably afford the lending in question. I appreciate 
Everyday Loans has argued it spoke to Mr H about his financial circumstances and Mr H told 
it his financial difficulties were in the past. However, I dont think it was reasonable to rely on 
this when Mr Hs credit search results gave Everyday Loans clear reasons to doubt Mr Hs 
comments.
Ive also considered Everyday Loans argument that the £62 was a relatively low amount and 
because of this it didnt agree with the investigator that this was a sign Mr H was having 
significant problems managing his money. However, I think failing to pay an existing debt 
resulting in the account being placed in default is clearly a sign of someone having current 
financial difficulties. I also think the fact that its such a low amount poses additional 
concerns which Everyday Loans should have considered. This account defaulted just prior to 
Mr H wanting additional credit to purchase another car (from the records Everyday Loans 
made at the time). I fail to see why someone who was seeking additional credit would allow 
an existing account for £62 to go into default just prior to this application if they werent 
struggling to repay it. 
In addition, like the investigator, I also dont think it was reasonable for Everyday Loans to 
rely on an estimated monthly disposable income of almost £1,000 given what it could see 
from Mr Hs credit search results. Mr H had defaulted accounts with £62 and (at the time of 
application) £429 outstanding, so I think its clear Mr H was unlikely to have anywhere near 
this level of disposable income available and was struggling to repay his commitments.  
Furthermore, I think Everyday Loans should have also questioned why, if Mr H had almost 
£1,000 in disposable income per month, he wanted a loan for £2,000 (which if it ran to full 
term would have cost an additional £3,626.32 in interest). Turning to the bank statements Mr H provided to Everyday Loans as part of his application, 
its clear from these that Mr H was regularly moving money back and forth between 
accounts. This is an indicator that someone is struggling to manage their monthly outgoings. 
I can also see Mr H was incurring arranged and unarranged overdraft fees and was making 
multiple separate payments to a debt management company. These are additional signs that 
an individual is struggling financially and that giving someone additional borrowing in these 
circumstances was not sustainable. 
Theres been some debate between the investigator and Everyday Loans about whether or 
not Mr Hs credit card also indicated Mr H was struggling financially. Whilst the account was 
almost at its limit, this was a relatively low limit and the account wasnt in default so Im not 
sure in and of itself being close to a £200 limit alone shows Mr H was struggling financially. 
However, I think by taking a broader look at Mr Hs credit search results and bank 
statements, Everyday Loans had sufficient information to demonstrate it wasnt sustainable 
to lend.
Ive noted Everyday Loans has said Mr H was able to repay his loan early, however this 
doesnt demonstrate that he was able to repay it sustainably. And Mr H has said he 
refinanced this loan into another to reduce the repayments (and interest charged on the 
account) as he couldnt afford to repay it. So I dont agree that this demonstrates the loan 
was affordable for him. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think its clear Mr H was having current challenges 
meeting his regular expenditure, including his existing financial commitments and that he 
was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay this loan. So I dont think Everyday Loans 
should have agreed this loan.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr H in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr H 
was given the loan which has since been used and, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr H back in the position he would be in 
if he hadnt been given the loan in the first place. But equally I dont think it appropriate for 
Everyday Loans to benefit from an unfair lending decision.
Bearing this in mind, Everyday Loans needs to do the following:
1. Refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr H paid towards the loan.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges. And arrange an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr H. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question 
should be given back to Mr H and 8% simple interest should be added to the 
surplus.4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as detailed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
