DRN-1158680
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in connection with a credit card. Mr N says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in November 1995. The policy cost 
no more than 71p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Mr N in the event 
he wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Following a successful claim, 
it would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ns case.
This is not an easy complaint to decide; there is very little documentary evidence available 
from the time of the sales, nearly 25 years ago. So, I must carefully weigh up the evidence 
available to me when reaching my decision. And having done so, Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.
The PPI policy was sold sometime in November 1995 when Mr N took out his card. Lloyds 
hasnt been able to provide a copy of any application form that Mr N may have completed at 
the time, so its very difficult for me to know what happened when Mr N took out the credit 
card and PPI policy.
I accept it is possible Lloyds didnt give Mr N a choice about taking PPI. I also accept it is 
possible Lloyds gave him the impression he had to take it out. But it seems equally likely 
Lloyds gave Mr N the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of his credit card 
application, and that he chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten in the many years that 
have now elapsed. And the sample credit card application form that Ive seen, and which 
Lloyds says wouldve been the same as the one completed by Mr N, says the PPI was 
optional  a customer had to select it if they wanted to purchase it.
This means Im not persuaded (as I must be to uphold Mr Ns complaint) it is more likely than 
not Lloyds presented the policy to Mr N as compulsory or that it didnt tell him about the 
policy at all, or indicated that it would assist him overall credit card application. And had he 
chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been added to his account without either his 
knowledge or his consent, I wouldve expected him to query or challenge this shortly 
afterwards, especially as PPI wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card statements for 
several years.Lloyds says it wouldve recommended the PPI to Mr N so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. He told us he was in good health and he was employed, so he wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover that can sometimes affect self-employed 
people or customers with existing medical conditions. And he seems to have had a need for 
the cover  he told us he had good sick pay from his employer  but this this policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to and for longer than his occupational sick pay.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think that Mr Ns information needs were fully 
met. However, in this case, I dont think Mr N suffered detriment as a result. I say this 
because after careful consideration Ive decided that, on the balance of probabilities, even 
had he been fully aware of all aspects of the policy, Mr N is still likely to have taken it out. 
Furthermore, the PPI transactions and costs wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card 
statements, and in the event that the cost was not acceptable to Mr N, or it became 
unaffordable, he couldve cancelled the policy at any point without penalty.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ns other comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman