DRN-2365693
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc was irresponsible when it gave him a credit 
card with a £500 limit.
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with Capital One in 2015. His application was successful and 
he was given a credit limit of £500. At the time, Mr B says he was reliant on payday lending 
and was in financial difficulty. He feels that the credit card has put him in a worse financial 
position.
Mr B went over his limit a number of times and says he was using other debt to pay his 
credit card. He also said he notified Capital One of his financial difficulties but it didnt do 
anything.
Our investigator didnt think Capital One had done anything wrong. She explained that she 
felt it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before giving Mr B the credit card 
and she hadnt seen evidence that Mr B told Capital One of his financial difficulties. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them 
the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was fair. 
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
lending wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount of the credit limit being applied for; and Mr Bs personal 
circumstances at the time of application.
When Mr B applied for the credit card he explained he was employed full time with a salary 
of £24,000 and that he was living with his parents. Capital One took account of the 
information Mr B gave and also looked at his credit score. This showed he had several 
active lines of credit but Mr B was within his balance for his credit cards and overdraft and 
the accounts were running normally.
Mr Bs credit score also showed hed had a default five years previously and that hed had 
some payday loans. I can see all the payday loans were settled when he applied for this 
card. From the information Mr B provided, and the information on his credit file I dont think it 
was irresponsible for Capital One to give him the credit limit of £500. I think the checks 
undertaken were reasonable and proportionate to the limit that Capital One gave him. And I 
dont think there was enough to show that this credit card wouldve been unaffordable for 
Mr B at the time he applied for it. So, I think the lending decision was fair.
Mr B has said that he suffered financial difficulties throughout the time hes had his credit 
card. I can see that he went over his limit on a number of occasions but I can also see he 
brought his account back into its limit by the following month. So, I dont think this was 
enough to alert Capital One that he may be in financial difficulties. I also havent seen 
anything to show Mr B made Capital One aware that he was in financial difficulty. I can see 
recently hes agreed a three-month repayment holiday but prior to this I dont think Capital 
One wouldve known Mr B had financial problems. So, I dont think it has done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman