DRN-3264429
The complaint
Mr R complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) failed to remove adverse 
information from his credit file. He says this caused him significant financial loss.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about the problems Mr R has been having securing a new house for 
his family, I know it will disappoint him but Im afraid I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute that Oodle continued to report adverse information to Mr Rs credit file 
when theyd agreed, through this service, that they wouldnt.
Oodle upheld Mr Rs initial complaint in August 2019 but didnt remove adverse information 
from his credit file until about June 2021.
Mr R says that as a direct result of this mistake he lost out on buying his dream house and 
that the failure had significant financial implications as by the time the markers were 
removed and he was able to secure a mortgage, the stamp duty reductions he would have 
benefitted from were no longer available and, amongst other things, house prices had risen.
Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence that the loss of the mortgage was due to 
the missed payment markers still appearing on Mr Rs credit file or that the failure to have 
the mortgage approved was the only reason the house sale could not complete. I therefore 
dont think it would be fair to ask Oodle to compensate Mr R for any losses he may have 
incurred during his house hunt.
I say that because whilst the email Mr R has provided from the mortgage company suggests 
one of the reasons the mortgage could have been declined is because of missed payment 
markers, I dont think that email is conclusive.
And, regardless of any mortgage offer, there may have been other subsequent reasons that 
the house sale would have fallen through that would have been out of Oodles control, such 
as survey failures or problems with searches. I think it can only be therefore be fairly 
considered speculation that the house sale would have fallen through solely because of the 
mortgage decline. Im not therefore persuaded that it would be fair to ask Oodle to pay the 
costs Mr R says he incurred as a consequence of their failure to amend his credit file as I 
dont think those costs have been demonstrated.
But the failure to rectify Mr Rs credit file would clearly have been distressing for Mr R. He 
would have been frustrated that even after involving this service Oodle had still failed to 
properly rectify matters, and the issue was clearly ongoing for about two years. In those 
circumstances I think Oodle should pay him some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused but I think their offer of £400 is a reasonable one in the circumstances 
and Im not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman