DRN-1724592
 
Complaint
Mr C says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
This complaint is about an open-ended credit facility Drafty approved for Mr C in March 
2018. Mr C says Drafty shouldn't have allowed him to open the facility as he couldn't afford 
the repayments.
Our adjudicator didn't think Mr C's complaint should be upheld. He thought Drafty had 
carried out proportionate checks before opening the account and as those checks suggested 
the repayments were affordable the adjudicator didn't think Drafty had acted unfairly by 
approving the facility for Mr C.
Mr C asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. He says that his credit history, 
gambling and mental health problems meant it was irresponsible for Drafty to have lent to 
him. His complaint was therefore passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Drafty asked Mr C to provide some information about his income and expenditure before 
lending to him. Mr C said his monthly income and expenditure amounted to £1,800 and 
£1,000 respectively. It seems Drafty revised Mr C's declared monthly expenditure up to 
£1,161 - presumably on the basis of a credit check and/or the buffers and thresholds it 
applies. This left Mr C with a notional disposable monthly income of over £600.
I've only seen a summary of the credit check Drafty carried out but it shows no defaulted or 
delinquent accounts and the overall level of Mr C's debt (less than £10,000) doesn't seem 
excessive compared to his income. Mr C also sent us a more detailed copy of his credit 
report and this too doesn't suggest he was having any difficulty meeting his existing 
repayments in the period immediately before he applied for his Drafty account.
I understand that, had Mr C drawn down the maximum amount permitted, then his highest 
monthly repayment would've been around £125. Based on the information Drafty obtained, from Mr C and credit reference agencies, I don't think it was unreasonable for Drafty to think 
Mr C would be able to afford to sustainably manage this facility.
Having considered everything, I think Drafty carried out proportionate checks before 
approving this facility for Mr C and I don't therefore find it acted unfairly by deciding to lend to 
him.
I've also looked at Mr C's use of the facility, as Drafty needed to monitor it for signs of 
financial difficulty. But I don't think there's anything about the way Mr C used the facility 
which suggests Mr C was in financial difficulty, such that Drafty ought to have withdrawn the 
facility.
I'd like to finish by saying I'm sorry to hear of Mr C's difficulties with gambling and his mental 
health. I don't think this is something Drafty could reasonably have been aware of before 
lending to him. So it doesn't affect the outcome of his complaint about irresponsible lending. 
But Drafty is aware of these matters now and so will need to bear this in mind when dealing 
with the repayment of any debt which may still be outstanding in order that it treat Mr C 
positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr C's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman