DRN-2859295
The complaint
Mr F complains that advice given by Informed Choice Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension wasnt in 
his best interests.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised the 
key points below.
ICL gathered and commented on information relating to Mrs F. But this complaint is just 
about the transfer of Mr Fs OPS, so Ive only included information relating to Mrs F which 
is relevant to that.
In July 2016 Mr F and his wife consulted an advisor from Informed Choice Limited (ICL) 
to see if Mr F could afford to retire early, around 55-56. At the time of the advice Mr Fs 
circumstances were as follows:
He was aged . . married with a dependent child ...................
He had deferred benefits from 18 years service in a defined benefit (final 
salary) OPS
He had a CETV from his OPS of just over £438,877 which expired on 21 
September 2016 (two months away)
He also had two defined contribution (DC) schemes from previous employers, 
worth around £25,000 together
He was employed earning just under ................ and was making monthly 
contributions of just over £1,000 into his current employers DC pension scheme, 
which was valued at around £28,250
His wife also had deferred benefits in two DC schemes from previous employers, 
worth around £99,000, plus two DB schemes which would provide annual 
retirement income of around £2,400
His house was estimated to be worth around £600,000 with an interest-only 
mortgage of just over £230,638 which needed to be repaid in 2027 when hed 
be ..
There was no repayment vehicle for the mortgage other than the tax-free cash 
(TFC) from Mr Fs pension
The normal retirement age of his OPS was 62, but he could take unreduced 
benefits at 60
They intended to downsize, (to a property costing around £450,000), when Mr F 
was 60, rather than at .. when the mortgage was due, to avoid disrupting their 
sons education
Mrs F was a home maker who intended to resume working, earning around 
£1,000 per month
They had joint savings (cash and ISA) of around £11,488
Mr Fs attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed as 5 out of 10 (low medium)
The couples excess of joint annual income over expenditure was just under 
£2,000.
The ICL advisor produced a transfer analysis report which was discussed at a second 
meeting in early September 2016. In advance of this Mr F produced his own cashflow 
forecasts which aimed to compare transferring and remaining in his OPS. He estimated 
his required income at retirement to be around £37,000. But he also wanted funds for 
home improvements and holidays, and to ensure adequate death benefits for his wife.
The advisor delivered a presentation which ran through a number of scenarios, adjusting 
the variables accordingly. But there were technical issues so the interactive software didnt 
work as it should. Following the meeting Mr F asked the advisor for hard copies of the 
various options theyd discussed, saying hed like to see all the output so I can go through 
the figures and cash flows in detail before I finally sign the form and transfer out of the 
[OPS] final salary.
ICL produced a second transfer analysis report which set out that at age 62 Mr F would be 
entitled to a full OPS pension of £28,701 or TFC of £147,747 and a reduced annual 
pension of £22,163. And if he retired early at 55 hed receive income of £17,488 or TFC of 
£93,889 and a reduced pension of £14,083. This analysis calculated the critical yields as 
7.06% based on retirement at 62 and 9.22% at 55, which would need to increase further to 
cover charges. But it estimated the fund would last until age 104 if Mr F drew equivalent 
income as for age 62, and until 112 based on age 55.
ICLs suitability report dated 13 September 2016 concluded that if Mr F transferred the 
deferred benefits of his OPS to a personal pension with provider F he could afford to 
retire at .. with sufficient sustainable income to maintain a reasonable standard of living. 
And he could use the tax-free cash (TFC) to redeem the mortgage. It said Transferring the 
scheme is also the only way to enable you to retire at age .. and have sufficient tax free 
cash to pay off the mortgage.In the meantime the advisor recommended the couple use 
any surplus income, plus Mrs Fs earnings once she resumed working to overpay the 
mortgage to reduce the debt. Mr F accepted the advice and the transfer of his OPS went 
ahead based on the guaranteed CETV in October 2016. The personal pension with F was 
invested in line with his ATR.
In December 2016 Mr F discovered an ex-colleague had received a CETV of around
£100,000 more than he had. Mr F felt the ICL advisor should have been aware that 
prevailing market conditions and falling gilt yields would lead to rising CETVs, and 
recommended he obtain a requote. ICL didnt uphold the complaint so Mr F referred it to 
this service.
Although Mr Fs complaint was just about whether he shouldve been advised to obtain a 
CETV requote, once the complaint was with our service it was widened using our 
inquisitorial remit to consider the overall suitability of the advice to transfer. An adjudicator 
and then an ombudsman reviewed the case. And both concluded it wouldnt be fair to 
expect ICL to predict future CETVs, and if Mr F had requested (and paid for) a requote it 
may not have been higher.
The ombudsman issued two provisional decisions in 2019 and 2020 about the suitability but 
left the service before a final decision was issued. He was concerned the OPS represented 
a large proportion of Mr Fs retirement provision, and the critical yield looked unachievable. 
He thought ICL should have explored whether Mr F couldve met his objective of retiring at 
.. without transferring his OPS, through a combination of taking his DB scheme benefits, DC 
scheme drawdown, and moving house to downsize and repay the mortgage.In 2018, while his complaint was with this service, Mr F moved house to get more for 
their money, rather than to release equity to reduce the mortgage. Mr F said hed have 
considered downsizing in 2016 if ICL had recommended it, and he didnt feel hed been 
given sufficient information to make an informed decision about the transfer.
In 2020 ICL was given the opportunity to respond about the suitability of the advice itself 
and rejected the complaint. Firstly because it wasnt what Mr F had actually complained 
about, and secondly because the advice had been suitable to meet Mr Fs objectives. They 
said ICLs highly experienced and qualified advisors had carried out a full financial review. 
And despite what Mr F said subsequently, the ICL advisor was sure at the time of the 
advice, Mr F didnt intend to downsize prior to age 60, to prevent disrupting his sons 
education.
In 2021 the suitability complaint was allocated to a new investigator, who reviewed the 
case afresh. He explained the approach of this service to defined benefit transfers is in line 
with COBS 19.1.6, with the starting point being that giving up guaranteed pension benefits 
is rarely in a consumers best interests. If transferring appears to be necessary to meet a 
consumers objectives, these must be realistic and achievable, without taking an 
unacceptable level of risk. He commented on the usefulness of the comparisons in the 
suitability report, as one was based on Mr F taking his full DB pension at 62, when hed 
always have needed to use the TFC to repay the mortgage. So he calculated the TFC Mr 
F could generate at age .. as just under £91,689, with an annual pension of just over 
£13,753. Which when added to the TFC he could raise from his DC schemes would give 
him around £203,561, which is not quite enough to repay the mortgage, unless the 
balance had been reduced in the interim using Mrs Fs income. But even if he could clear 
the mortgage this way, Mr F would be left with income far below the level hed said he 
needed.
He also considered the other option put forward by the ombudsman, which was for Mr F to 
defer taking benefits from his DB scheme to age 60, but redeem the mortgage at .. by 
drawing down his DC scheme in full and downsizing. The investigator reviewed ICLs 
modelling which suggested this was a possibility, although ICL pointed out it came with 
reduced death benefits, which Mr F had said were important to him. In 2019 Mr F told us 
with some work this scenario could have been ideal for me in that it would have given me 
the security of staying in the DB scheme. But the investigator thought it unlikely Mr F 
wasnt already aware he could simultaneously retire and downsize at .. if thats what he 
wanted, without ICL suggesting it. So he thought Mr F mustve had a reason why he hadnt 
planned to do that all along.
Finally he considered whether Mr F needed to transfer when he did, or if he couldve 
waited. And he thought the main reason to transfer then, was to secure the guaranteed 
CETV, as it wasnt clear it would be higher if he delayed - the subject of Mr Fs original 
complaint. He also pointed out that if the complaint was upheld, it would be on the basis Mr 
F shouldnt have transferred at all. The redress is designed to put Mr F in the position hed 
be in if suitable advice would be to remain in the DB scheme, not to transfer at a later date.
Guaranteed pension benefits are inherently valuable, and he thought Mr F wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the transfer if he wasnt sure about it. He had a clear objective to retire 
at .., but had no alternative repayment vehicle, other than the TFC, to repay the mortgage 
in 2027 without needing to sell, which hes recorded as saying he didnt wish to do. 
So on balance he thought that having transferred Mr F can retire early and repay his 
mortgage, whereas he doubted he could without transferring. So the investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint.Mr F was disappointed, so in view of the previous findings and the length of time the 
matter had been outstanding, he suggested ICL pay him half the redress to resolve the 
complaint. ICL declined as they didnt believe any redress was due.
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by acknowledging Mr Fs complaint has been with this service for a 
considerable time, and he and ICL have experienced delays and uncertainty while the 
matter has been outstanding. Im grateful for their patience. Im also aware the background 
to this case is complex and has developed over time. Id like to reassure both parties Ive 
read everything on the case file, including the file for the original complaint, and Ive listened 
to the previous calls.
Mr Fs original complaint wasnt that the transfer from his DB scheme wasnt in his best 
interests. Instead, he was concerned he might have received a higher CETV if hed 
delayed and requested a requote. I think if Mr F hadnt discovered his colleague received a 
higher CETV than him it seems unlikely hed have complained at all. It was only when this 
service widened the complaint to consider whether recommending the transfer was 
suitable advice that he began to question whether he couldve met his objectives without 
transferring. So Ive looked at whether I think Mr F wouldve acted differently if hed been 
provided with the additional information he feels he shouldve been given. And to uphold 
the complaint, Id have to be satisfied that its most likely if Mr F had been given the 
information he wanted, he wouldve made a different decision. Or that the information he 
was given was wrong in some way.
The approach of this service when considering transfers from defined benefit pension 
schemes aligns with the FCA guidance, which is the assumption they will generally not be 
suitable. The guidance applicable at the time of the advice (COBS 5.3.29G) was as 
follows:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm 
should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the 
evidence available at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
This is known as the presumption of unsuitability and has been renumbered to  COBS 
19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook. A transfer to a defined contribution pension means 
the member loses guaranteed benefits and becomes vulnerable to market volatility. And 
while pension freedoms legislation gave people more choice in accessing their pension 
savings to use as they wished, it has the potential for their funds to be depleted too early, 
leaving them with insufficient retirement income and solely reliant on a state pension. And 
Mr F wanted to retire early but with a reasonable income, which is not always realistic. 
While its important to protect consumers from unsuitable transfers, this doesnt mean a 
transfer is never possible. There are circumstances when a transfer is the best or only option for meeting a consumers objectives, and I think thats likely to have been the case 
for Mr F, regardless of the additional information ICL couldve provided him with.
ICLs position is that after a comprehensive review of his circumstances, Mr F was taken 
through a fully interactive presentation to demonstrate a number of what if scenarios to 
help him understand his options. ICL maintains the advice was suitable, as only by 
transferring could Mr F meet his objective to retire early with a reasonable standard of 
living and repay the mortgage on the due date. They say Mr F was clear hed planned to 
delay downsizing until 60, whereas his mortgage needed to be repaid at ... Mr F told us 
once hed already made his complaint, that if ICL had suggested he could repay his 
mortgage at .. by downsizing to a cheaper property and retain the guaranteed benefits in 
his OPS, thats what hed have done. But like the investigator I find it implausible Mr F 
hadnt already considered this as an option.
The fact-find records that Mr F intended to downsize to repay the mortgage in the future, 
but didnt anticipate doing so until at least age 60. The advisor recalls Mr F being quite 
adamant on this point, due to the impact of moving on his sons education. Whereas Mr F 
says he wouldve been open to the idea of downsizing at .. if ICL had suggested it, and 
later said this option wouldve been ideal for him. I cant say how strongly Mr F expressed 
his feelings about when he intended to downsize. But as the adviser made a note of it I 
think its likely Mr F did say he didnt anticipate downsizing until at least 60, even if he 
wasnt dead set against it. Which meant he wasnt planning to downsize when the 
mortgage was due to be repaid, and I think he must have had a reason for that. Selling the 
property to clear the mortgage seems logical, although it would mean being prepared to 
move at a specific time to a smaller property in a cheaper area, likely in a different school 
catchment, when Mr Fs son would be 13, presumably in senior school leading up to 
exams. Moving house is never solely a financial decision, there are important practical and 
emotional considerations, and it is an upheaval. It isnt possible to predict the future, but at 
the time of the advice when his son was only ....., its quite reasonable to think Mr F would 
be reluctant to make plans based on having to uproot the family, and disrupt his sons 
education at that time. So it seems Mr F consulted ICL to ensure he could retire early and 
raise sufficient funds to repay the mortgage, without needing to move before he wanted to.
Although ICL says they carried out a full financial review and werent engaged just to advise 
on the pension transfer, it doesnt look like they were asked to review Mr Fs mortgage. So I 
dont know whether he could have converted it to capital repayment or extended the term. 
Theres nothing to suggest anything other than it was contractually required to be repaid in 
full in 2027. The suitability report notes Mrs F intended to recommence working in 2017 and 
anticipated £6,000 of her annual earnings would go towards making contributions to a 
pension or the mortgage. Presumably she intended either making capital repayments or 
saving into some kind of repayment vehicle, potentially raising £60,000 after ten years. And 
this together with their savings of £11,488 and drawing down all their DC schemes (valued 
at the time of the advice at £28,251, £25,000 and £99,000) has the potential to raise a sum 
sufficient to repay the mortgage without needing to access the DB scheme or sell the 
property. Particularly as Mr F was contributing to his current employers DC scheme which 
has the potential to grow in the ten years before he needed to access it.
But Im not persuaded that was Mr Fs intention at the time of the advice. Even when he 
asked ICL for print outs and illustrations of the various scenarios under discussion, he 
wanted these so I can go through the figures and cash flows in detail before I finally sign 
the form and transfer out of the [OPS] final salary. Which suggests hed already made that 
decision - he wasnt asking for this information to make his mind up about whether or not to 
transfer. I think if Mr F thought he could do nothing until the mortgage needed to be repaid 
in 2027, and then comfortably raise the funds needed to repay the mortgage from savings 
and drawing down their DC pensions at that point, he neednt have consulted the ICL advisor at all. But Mr F wanted to retire comfortably at .., and the likely income from his DB 
scheme, (set out in the report as £28,701), would be significantly lower than he was used 
to, and below the minimum he thought he needed. 
His outgoings would presumably be reduced once the mortgage interest payments stopped. 
But his income is likely to remain at this level until he sold the property releasing some 
equity which could be invested for income, or until he could claim the State pension at 67. 
But it wasnt certain how much would be left over after the new purchase, and his son is 
likely to have remained financially dependent for some years to come, while he continued 
his education.
Mr F says he likes to make evidence-based decisions, and this is supported by the way he 
produced his own cash flow forecast spreadsheet. He wanted ICL to explore various 
scenarios during the meeting, and then provide him with hard copies which he could review 
himself. There may have been practical difficulties providing Mr F with hard copies of every 
possible permutation discussed in a meeting, and an overload of information may not be 
helpful. But I think ICL couldve provided Mr F with some of the additional information he 
requested, as the examples in its suitability report didnt allow for a like-for-like comparison. 
These assumed that if Mr F remained in the DB scheme hed take unreduced benefits, 
when hed always intended to take the TFC to repay the mortgage. But while Mr F says he 
doesnt feel he was given sufficient information to make an informed decision, he 
nonetheless proceeded with the transfer without it. And I think that was to ensure he 
benefited from the CETV of around 25 times the annual pension, which he described as 
quite generous and which was guaranteed until 21 September 2016. I think this suggests 
Mr F was concerned that delaying for a requote wouldnt necessarily have resulted in a 
higher one.
But even if Mr F hadnt fully committed to transfer his pension, I dont consider it likely 
he wasnt aware he could sell the property to redeem his mortgage, unless it had been 
suggested by ICL. Indeed since the time of the advice, Mr F and his family have moved 
twice  to a new area in 2018, and then within that area in 2021. Although Mr F says 
this was to get more for their money, rather than to release equity, and the mortgage 
will still need to be redeemed in 2027. I think this shows Mr F is comfortable making 
financial decisions without relying on advisers. And hed presumably weighed up his 
options and decided against using the move(s) as an opportunity to clear the mortgage.
A financial advisors role is to make a recommendation to meet the consumers realistic 
objectives, based on their individual circumstances. As the value of his OPS benefits was 
over £30,000 Mr F was required to take regulated financial advice before transferring, and 
ICL has explained they didnt just advise on the transfer but carried out a full financial 
review. Plus their fee wasnt dependent on Mr F transferring, so there was no incentive for 
them to recommend the transfer, if they didnt feel it was suitable advice. As mentioned 
earlier, its usually best to retain valuable defined pension benefits where possible, and Mr F 
said spouse pension and death benefits were important to him. But the primary purpose of 
a pension is to provide income in retirement and in Mr Fs case he had a more pressing 
need which was to repay an interest-only mortgage. And Im satisfied he must always have 
intended the TFC from his pension as the repayment vehicle as he had nothing else in 
place. The analysis suggested that by transferring Mr F would have comfortable income, 
repay the mortgage from the TFC, downsize as planned at 60 and then claim the state 
pension at 67. But I think he was aware he couldve waited until .., when the mortgage 
needs to be redeemed and simultaneously retired and downsized. But I think that involves a 
lot of uncertainty and disruption, which its likely hed wish to avoid.
ICL and Mr F had to make some assumptions about the future, based on his 
circumstances at the time, but priorities and life events can change. At the time of the advice Mr F didnt mention having plans to move, yet has since done so. But this decision 
must be based on what was known at the time and without the benefit of hindsight. The 
decision whether to transfer is finely balanced, with each option having risks. Remaining in 
the DB scheme risks not being able to realise sufficient funds to repay the mortgage 
andhaving to move at an inconvenient time. Deciding not to transfer risks missing out on a 
CETV which may not be so high in the future. And transferring means giving up 
guaranteed benefits, including a two-thirds spouse pension. It also involves being exposed 
to investment risk, and needing to achieve a relatively high critical yield, such that the 
investment growth is sufficient to allow for charges and inflation. So I understand why Mr F 
is now questioning the decision he made.
I dont think ICLs advice was perfect. Mr F wasnt provided with all the information he 
asked for, and the comparisons in the suitability report werent helpful. And it doesnt seem 
that other options for repaying or reducing the mortgage were explored. But thats not 
enough to say I think Mr F was given unsuitable advice, or that Im persuaded hed have 
made a different decision if hed been given the information he wanted.
I think on balance based on his circumstances in 2016, and what was known then of his 
future plans, transferring is likely to have been the only way Mr F would feel comfortable 
he could meet his objectives. Which were to retire early and release sufficient funds in 
2027 to redeem the mortgage without being forced to move at an inconvenient time. While 
he lost the guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, he was making significant 
contributions to his current employers DC scheme to boost his future pension entitlement.
While I understand Mr F may think differently with the benefit of hindsight, I cant say 
Informed Choice Limiteds advice was unsuitable. So I dont uphold this complaint and 
make no award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
  
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman