DRN-3102648
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the home emergency policy he had with British Gas Insurance 
Limited (British Gas).
  
What happened
Mr C had a policy with British Gas for a gas safety check and certificate (CP12) for a 
property he owned. He said he spoke to British Gas and was told that if he upgraded to a 
HomeCare 4 policy he wouldnt need the other policy as it would be included in this policy.
British Gas continued to take payment for both policies. So, Mr C told British Gas he hadnt 
benefitted from the HomeCare 4 policy and wanted a refund. When British Gas replied it said 
Mr C had two different policies each with different features. It wouldnt refund the cost of the 
policy.
When Mr C contacted this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the 
two policies offered different features, so British Gas hadnt done anything wrong by 
charging him for both policies.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 20 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Mr C had a policy that provided gas safety checks and a landlords (CP12) certificate. When 
he took out the HomeCare 4 policy, Mr C said he thought this was an upgrade and that he 
would no longer require the separate policy for the gas safety checks and landlords 
certificate. From what Ive seen, Mr C wanted a HomeCare 4 policy that included the gas 
safety checks and landlords certificate. British Gas does offer a policy that combines these 
two elements.
Mr C told this service that he started the process online to buy the HomeCare 4 policy. 
During the process, he phoned British Gas to confirm that the HomeCare 4 policy included 
the CP12 certificate. He said British Gas confirmed that it did, so he bought the policy. It 
hasnt been possible to listen to the phone call as British Gas no longer has it, but Ive no 
reason to doubt what Mr C has said. So, I think, overall, Mr C had the policy cover he 
wanted in place, which was HomeCare 4 and a gas safety check and certificate. However, 
this was as two separate policies when Mr C wanted it all to be in the same policy. 
So, I currently intend to say that British Gas should check the total cost of Mr Cs separate 
policies and compare this to the cost if the HomeCare 4 policy and the CP12 certificate had 
been covered by the same policy. If it would have been cheaper to take out a combined 
policy, I currently intend to say that British Gas should refund the difference in cost. Any 
refunds British Gas has already made in relation to the cost of these policies for the period in 
which both policies were in place can be deducted from any refund for the difference in cost 
between the policies.
Mr C has said that he should be refunded the full cost of the HomeCare 4 policy. However, 
from what Ive seen, Mr C did want the benefits of the HomeCare 4 policy, he just didnt want 
it in a standalone policy. British Gas also provided the record of its visits to Mr Cs property. 
This showed that British Gas carried out the annual visits under the gas safety checks policy 
and also carried out an annual service under the HomeCare 4 policy. Mr C seems to have 
suggested that the HomeCare 4 annual service didnt take place, but looking at British Gas 
records the visit is listed and so the evidence I currently have shows it did take place. There 
dont seem to have been any home emergency visits, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
British Gas wouldnt have visited had Mr C contacted it about an issue that was covered by 
the HomeCare 4 policy. So, I dont currently intend to say that British Gas should refund the 
cost of the HomeCare 4 policy.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 October 2021. Both parties responded before that date.
British Gas accepted the decision.
Mr C didnt accept the decision. In summary, Mr C said that a penalty should be imposed on 
British Gas or compensation awarded to him. British Gas also hadnt complied with the 
agreement made over the phone and stood to benefit from that. He said British Gas should 
be reprimanded, if only to discourage it, and others, from acting this way in the future. He 
didnt think British Gas repaying the money it owed was a meaningful penalty and didnt 
acknowledge that there had been a mis-management issue. Mr C said I should consider 
imposing a fine on British Gas for its malpractice and order them to pay compensation.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the comments from Mr C and the strong 
views that he holds. 
It isnt the role of this service to fine or punish a business and we also cant tell a business 
how it should conduct itself. That is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
I also only had limited information available to me when I made my decision. British Gas no 
longer had the phone call and so I based my decision on Mr Cs description of what 
happened. So, I dont know exactly what was discussed in the phone call and why an 
additional policy was setup. But Mr C has said he wanted one policy that covered both the 
HomeCare 4 element and the gas safety check and certificate. So, I made my decision, and 
how it should be resolved, on that basis. Ive thought carefully about the full circumstances of 
this complaint and Im not persuaded to change how this complaint should be resolved.
  
Putting things right
British Gas must check the total cost of Mr Cs separate policies and compare this to the 
cost of the HomeCare 4 policy and the CP12 certificate if they had been covered by the 
same policy. If it would have been cheaper to take out a combined policy, British Gas should 
refund the difference in cost.   
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. British Gas Insurance Limited must check the total cost of Mr 
Cs separate policies and compare this to the cost of the HomeCare 4 policy and the CP12 
certificate if they had been covered by the same policy. If it would have been cheaper to take 
out a combined policy, British Gas should refund the difference in cost. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman