DRN-3855031
The complaint
Mr D complains about the amount Zurich Insurance PLC paid for his car after he claimed on 
his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ds car was damaged, so he claimed on his policy with Zurich. Zurich reviewed the claim 
and accepted it. They said due to the damage on Mr Ds car it would be deemed what is 
known as a total loss. Zurich valued Mr Ds car at £16,000 but then paid him £11,500 after 
deducting the salvage amount for him retaining the car and the policy excess.  
Mr D said this wasnt enough and provided Zurich with adverts to show similar cars being 
sold for over £20,000. Zurich reviewed these and said they didnt think they were like for like 
but agreed to increase the valuation to £17,000 and then to £17,830. Because Mr D had 
already had an interim payment of £11,500, Zurich paid him an additional £6,230 as he 
hadnt retained the salvage, so that had been deducted in error. Zurich also offered to have 
a second engineer review his car to get another valuation. 
As Mr D wasnt happy with the valuation he complained. Zurich issued its final response 
after the second engineer had reviewed Mr Ds car. The second engineer had reviewed Mr 
Ds car and increased the valuation to £20,090. Because of this Zurich increased its offer in 
the final response letter and paid Mr D another £2,360. Mr D didnt think this was enough 
and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
Zurich had only used one trade valuation guide when valuing Mr Ds car. When she looked 
at the other guides, we used she recommended the valuation be increased to £20,879, she 
also recommended Zurich pay Mr D £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Zurich agreed with our investigators outcome and said they would arrange payment of the 
increased settlement and the compensation. Mr D agreed to the valuation but didnt think the 
compensation was enough. He didnt agree with £200 compensation and said he had to take 
out finance due to Zurich not paying enough initially and thought this should be covered too. 
Our investigator reviewed the finance Mr D took out to buy another car but didnt think it was 
fair for Zurich to pay it as theyd made interim payments. She also thought the amount 
recommended for distress and inconvenience was sufficient. As Mr D didnt agree the 
complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr D initially came to this service regarding the valuation of his car, both parties have 
now agreed with our investigators recommendation. So, I dont think I need to comment on 
this further.
I have however looked at whether Mr D has been sufficiently compensated for Zurichs error. 
I can see Zurich initially paid less than it should have in settlement for Mr Ds car. This was 
then revised, and Zurich offered Mr D £17,000 before he took out finance for another car.  
While this wasnt the final valuation agreed upon, I do think it was Mr Ds choice to take 
finance at this time. So, Im not going to tell Zurich to cover the finance costs Mr D has 
incurred. 
It is, however, our services normal approach that when an insurer makes a mistake, they 
should add 8% simple interest per annum to the additional amount they pay if a consumer 
has been without money they should have had. This is to compensate someone for not 
having the money. I cant see Zurich has added interest to the additional payments they 
have made. Therefore, Zurich should add 8% simple interest to the additional payments 
made if not already done so. The interest should be calculated from the date of the first 
settlement payment, until the date each interim payment was made. 
Ive also considered the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Zurich caused Mr D. Mr D 
has had to dispute the settlement a couple of times and it was revised each time. And while I 
can appreciate that this this has been distressing and inconvenient for him, Im satisfied 
£200 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. I say this because I can also see 
some of the delays in reaching the final settlement werent down to Zurich, so it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable to hold them responsible for those. Zurich therefore also needs to pay 
£200 for distress and inconvenience if not already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint, I require Zurich Insurance Plc to:
1. Pay Mr D £20,879 as the value of his car, subject to the remaining policy terms, 
conditions and excess, if not already done so. 
2. Add 8% simple interest per annum to the additional payments they made. This needs 
to be calculated from the date of the original settlement payment, until the date each 
interim payment was made. 
3. Pay Mr D £200 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman