DRN-1821939
 
The complaint
Mr J and Ms D complain Principality Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2004, Mr J and Ms D took out a PPI policy with a joint mortgage. The policy was sold 
during a meeting in a branch and provided cover for their mortgage repayments on a 50:50 
basis if one of them was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr J and Ms D disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Mr J and Ms D say that that it was implied to them at the time that the PPI policy wasnt 
optional and that they felt pressurised into agreeing to take it. I accept that its possible that 
the sales person they spoke to did wrongly mislead Mr J and Ms D in the way they have 
described. But this sale took place a long time ago and memories of what is said in such 
meetings do tend to fade with time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that 
this is what took place, based only on what Mr J and Ms D think they recall now. I need to 
look at all the information available to me and decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Principality has provided a copy of the mortgage application which Mr J and Ms D signed at 
the time. And I can see that a box has been ticked on this application to confirm they wanted 
to take out PPI. Ive also seen a copy of the PPI application form which they both signed. 
This was separate from their mortgage application and they also signed a separate direct 
debit mandate to collect the monthly premiums on their PPI policy. 
Having considered all the available information and testimony, on balance I think its most 
likely that PPI was discussed with Mr J and Ms D at the time and that they actively decided 
to take it, knowing that this was optional. But I can understand why they might not recall this 
now.
From what Ive seen, I dont think Principality gave Mr J and Ms D advice about taking the 
PPI policy. So it didnt need to ensure that it was suitable for them. But it did still need to 
ensure that it gave Mr J and Ms D enough information for them to decide if they wanted to 
take it. I think its possible that the information Principality gave Mr J and Ms D could have been 
better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed their minds about 
taking it. I say this because:
 
Both Mr J and Ms D appear to have been eligible for the policy.
 
The policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions. And Mr J says he had a 
medical condition at the time of this sale. But based on the information which 
Mr J and Ms D have provided to us about this condition, I dont think it would have 
changed their minds about taking the policy, even if this exclusion had been better 
explained to them than it might have been. And Mr J and Ms D dont seem to have 
been affected by any of the other main exclusions and limitations in the policy. So I 
still think they would have thought the PPI gave them valuable cover which was 
worth paying for. 
 
Mr J and Ms D say they were both eligible for sick pay and had some savings that 
could have been used to make their mortgage repayments if one of them wasnt able 
to work. But this policy would have paid out in addition to these other means and, 
potentially, for longer than they would have lasted. And a mortgage is a big financial 
commitment  one where ones home is at risk if the repayments cant be met. So I 
think that Mr J and Ms D would still have valued the extra security that the policy 
gave them if things went wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr J and Ms D. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, they could have cancelled the policy if they thought it 
no longer met their needs.
 
So I dont think that Mr J and Ms D have lost out by anything that Principality may have done 
wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint against Principality Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman