DRN-4088006
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about how British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a 
claim under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs C contacted British Gas to report that water was leaking at the bottom of the hot water 
tank and was coming through the ceiling below. British Gas sent an engineer, who traced the 
leak to an issue with the seals in the ensuite shower that neighboured the cupboard that 
housed the hot water tank. As this wasnt covered by the policy, the engineer left.
Mrs C found there was still a leak. So, she contacted her home insurer, who sent an 
engineer. This engineer said the leak was in the water tank cupboard and tightened a few 
knobs to resolve the issue. Mrs C then contacted her home insurer again because the leak 
continued. Another engineer visited and traced the leak to a pipe in the loft, which it repaired.
Mrs C complained to British Gas. She said the British Gas engineer had told her the shower 
was leaking and that shed had to contact her home insurer as the leak was worse. Mrs C 
said shed been misled and it had now cost her the £450 excess on her home insurance 
policy. When British Gas replied, it said the damage wasnt caused by its engineer and was 
consequential damage. It suggested Mrs C contact her home insurer. It offered £20 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
When Mrs C complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the 
evidence showed there was a leak from the cold water feed. If British Gas engineer had 
found this, the policy would have covered it and Mrs C wouldnt have had to contact her 
home insurer. He said British Gas should refund the home insurance excess and pay £200 
compensation.
As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 April 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mrs C was on holiday when British Gas engineer visited, so her son dealt with the engineer. 
The British Gas engineer found a problem with the seals in an ensuite shower. The engineer 
said he showed Mrs Cs son that the leak was coming from the shower seals and grout by 
hosing down the faulty area. When the engineer did this the water showed in the cupboard 
and when he pointed the head away from the faulty seals the leak in the cupboard stopped. 
Im aware Mrs C disagrees with this. She has said there was no issue with the shower and, 
although she initially seemed to tell British Gas that she had ripped out the shower because 
of the engineers advice, she has since provided evidence to show the same shower is still 
there and has said it doesnt leak. She also said the shower wasnt in use at the time, as she 
was on holiday and her children used different bathrooms as the ensuite was in her 
bedroom.
Ive thought about this. The engineer described the test he carried out and said he showed 
this to Mrs Cs son to demonstrate what he thought was the cause. Im also aware the 
engineer later told this service that when he ran the water into the shower tray this didnt leak 
into the cupboard and it only happened when the seals were sprayed. Although Im aware 
Mrs C has said the shower wasnt in use around the time of the leak, I havent seen anything 
that shows this was raised with the engineer during his visit, which might have caused him to 
consider whether there might be another source for the leak. On the basis of the information 
available to the engineer at the time, I think it was reasonable for him to assess that he had 
found the source of the leak and for him to leave the property because faulty seals werent 
covered by the policy. I wouldnt expect the engineer to look for further leaks when he had 
found a source for the leak and it was consistent with the issue reported.
Mrs C then arranged for an engineer to visit under her home insurance policy. Mrs C has 
said this engineer found a leak in the hot water tank cupboard and that he tightened a few 
knobs. Im not assessing the actions of this engineer and whether what he did was 
reasonable. He didnt work for British Gas and his actions arent part of this complaint. But, 
this meant two engineers visited, one from British Gas and one from the home insurer and 
both seemed to find leaks and these were in different places. In my view, this also suggests 
that when this engineer visited, which was after the British Gas engineer, there wasnt 
evidence to show there was a leak potentially coming from the loft that required further 
investigation.
A third engineer then visited, also from the house insurer, who found that the cold supply 
pipework in [the] loft had accidentally been stood on and had slowly been leaking for a long 
period of time. The engineer also advised Mrs C that this might not be the source of the leak 
and there might be a leak in the internal wall. Its my understanding that this engineer did 
resolve the issue, but I think this also indicated that it still wasnt clear at that time whether 
the source of the leak had been found.
I can understand Mrs C is concerned that British Gas didnt find the leak in the loft during its 
visit. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, there appeared to be three different issues 
found that meant water leaked into the cupboard and caused damage to Mrs Cs home. Im 
also aware the ceiling was already damaged before the British Gas engineer visited. I 
currently think the British Gas engineer acted reasonably during his visit and that there isnt 
sufficient evidence to show the engineer should have carried on searching for a leak 
following the tests he carried out on the shower seals.
As a result, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to require British Gas to do 
anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 15 May 2023. Both parties replied before that date.
Mrs C didnt agree with my decision. She said there was one leak and it came from the loft. 
She said the shower base hadnt been touched and said it hadnt fixed itself. She said she 
wouldnt be accepting the outcome.
British Gas replied and said it didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the comments that have been provided. 
Im aware there was a leak coming from the loft. However, I still think the evidence showed 
that the British Gas engineer and another engineer found other sources for a leak. 
Mrs C has also commented on the shower tray. When I made my provisional decision, I was 
aware Mrs C disagreed there was an issue with the shower. I considered this, including that 
the engineer explained there wasnt an issue when the water was sprayed directly into the 
shower tray and it only happened when the water was sprayed on the seals and grout. The 
engineer showed Mrs Cs son what he thought was the source of the leak. I havent seen 
evidence that the engineer was given information at the time that I think should have caused 
him to consider if there might be another source for the leak. 
I remain of the view that based on the tests he carried out and the information available to 
him at the time, it was reasonable for the engineer to think he had found the source of the 
leak. I dont think he had any particular reason to keep searching for a leak when he had 
already found an issue that was consistent with what had been reported. So, I think it was 
reasonable that the engineer left the property without checking the loft.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman