DRN-3023117
The complaint
Mr G complains that about PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender acted irresponsibly 
when it gave him loans he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Mr Lender provided to Mr G as follows. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Monthly 
instalmentsAmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 13/06/2015 25/09/2015 3 £300.00 £215.20
2 25/09/2015 29/01/2016 4 £370.00 £196.10
3 07/02/2106 24/03/2016 2 £150.00 £97.80
4 07/04/2016 29/07/2016 4 £250.00 £106.50
Mr G mainly said that Mr Lender provided loans to him when he was already struggling 
financially. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. She thought that she hadnt seen enough to 
say it was unfair for Mr Lender to provide loans 1 - 3 to Mr G but that it shouldnt have lent 
loan 4.
Our adjudicator set out what Mr Lender should do to put things right for Mr G. 
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicator. It mainly said that:
it asked Mr G additional questions before it provided loan 4 and received 
satisfactory answers
the loan amount was also a decrease from loans 1 and 2 and the monthly 
repayments were half previous monthly repayments 
there was no evidence of financial difficulties in the previous 3 loans as he made 
each one of his repayments on time.
Mr Lender asked for a review. So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think she had enough evidence to say that loans 1, 2 and 3 shouldnt 
have been provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including what Mr G said about 
his income and expenses when he took out these loans. I agree with our adjudicator that 
there isnt enough to say Mr Lender shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr G. It was still 
early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Mr Lender to 
agree to lend these loans. As far as I can see, Mr G hasnt objected to what our adjudicator 
said with respect to not upholding his complaint about loans 1-3. So I dont think I need to 
say more about these loans.I think that by loan 4, Mr Lender should have realised that Mr G wasnt managing to repay 
his borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because Mr Lender could see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr G had struggled 
to repay previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 around the same time as he repaid 
loan 1, and he took out loan 3 just over a week after he paid loan 2 
he took out loan 4 two weeks after he paid loan 3. This was the third time in a row 
that hed repaid a loan then quickly borrowed again  and after taking out a smaller 
loan he was now increasing his borrowing again. Loan 4 was for just £50 less than 
the amount hed borrowed around ten months or so earlier when he asked Mr Lender 
for his first loan
all this suggests to me that Mr G wasnt using these loans to provide a short term fix 
or to cover a one-off emergency or a temporary cash flow problem - it looks likely that 
Mr G had to borrow again each time because he was facing money problems after 
repaying the previous loan. And his financial situation overall (which had looked like it 
might potentially have been improving by loan 3) evidently wasnt getting better after 
all. 
So I think there was a significant risk that Mr G wouldve been unable to sustainably meet his 
monthly repayments for loan 4. And so Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided loan 4.  
In coming to my decision Ive carefully considered Mr Lenders response to our adjudicators 
view  but in the circumstances I've described and for the reasons I've explained, this 
doesnt affect my decision. Repaying his loans doesnt mean that Mr G was able to do so in 
a way that was sustainably affordable for him. I dont think that anything Mr G said when he 
applied for loan 4 was sufficient to rebut the signs, evident by this stage from his borrowing 
track record with Mr Lender, that he wasnt using short-term loans for their intended purpose. 
And whilst I acknowledge that the monthly repayments for loan 4 were less than hed paid 
previously, I think the fact that he had arranged the borrowing over a four month term 
suggests that keeping down the monthly repayments was a priority for him  even though 
the longer repayment term added to the overall loan cost  most likely because he was 
struggling financially.   
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has had to pay interest on a loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to him  so thats unfair. 
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr G, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to) have treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right. Mr Lender should do the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr G the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse entries Mr Lender has recorded on Mr Gs credit file for 
loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Gs complaint and PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman