DRN-4309604
The complaint
Mr S says NewDay Limited, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on his credit 
card which paid for flights for him and others.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr S used his NewDay credit card to make a payment for flight tickets for 
him and his family to fly internationally in late July 2021. He bought the tickets from a 
company (which Ill call Firm T) which arranged the flights with a separate airline (the 
Airline). Due to the Pandemic Mr S says he contacted Firm T to move his flights in early July 
2021. He points to emails and phone records to support this. He says that he wanted to 
move the flights to 2022 but he was told he couldnt do that because flight itineraries for 
2022 hadnt been published at that point by the Airline. Mr S says he agreed with Firm T to 
place some placeholder bookings later in 2021 which, when the 2022 flights were 
published, would then be moved to the applicable dates in 2022.
Mr S sent an email on 15 July 2021 to Firm T and asked it to re-book his familys flights for 9 
July to 11 August 2022 as theyd discussed. He also provided passport copies to facilitate 
the booking change. On 27 September 2022, Mr S emailed Firm T again to slightly revise his 
requested travel dates to 4 July to 3 August 2022. 
On 2 October 2021, Mr S and his family were classed as no shows by the airline on the 
booking that Mr S says was a placeholder booking. He says he doesnt think this is fair as 
this isnt what hed agreed with Firm T. He also told our service that he and his family had no 
intention of travelling in October 2021-that was just a placeholder. So he complained to Firm 
T but without success. 
So he complained to NewDay who raised a chargeback, but which was defended by Firm T, 
so NewDay didnt take it forward. And latterly NewDay has said the pre-requisite conditions 
for a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 are not in place. So it hasnt 
refunded Mr S. Feeling this to be unfair Mr S has brought his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator felt NewDay should refund Mr S the money paid in full. In response NewDay 
has reiterated its position that the pre-requisite requirement for a successful claim under S75 
are not met. It said that as (Firm T) is a third party, it would be considered a break in the 
chain and not covered under Section 75. NewDay chose not to comment on Mr S 
arguments about the placeholder booking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S used his NewDay credit card to pay Firm T for the flights. This means that Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act (s.75) can apply to the transaction. This provides that where Mr 
S has a claim against a supplier of goods or services (in this case Firm T and/or the Airline) 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract he will have a like claim against 
NewDay as creditor subject to the provisions of s.75. 
This decision is solely about NewDay in relation to whether it did what it should have, and 
whether it treated Mr S fairly in consideration of his dispute with Firm T. This decision isnt 
directly about either the Airline or Firm T, neither of which are within this Services 
jurisdiction for complaints regarding chargeback and s.75. 
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here by Firm T there are 
some requirements set out in s.75 which have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
that Mr Ss claim meets the financial limits criteria as it was above the minimum threshold 
and below the maximum threshold.
S.75 also requires there must be a Debtor-Creditor-Supplier arrangement in place (often 
referred to as a DCS arrangement). NewDay has noted that there is a third party here (Firm 
T) which means that there isnt such a Debtor Creditor Supplier arrangement in place in its 
view. This is a very disappointing argument from NewDay bearing in mind that since the 
case of the Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds & others [2006] (the OFT case) it has been clear 
that the mere presence of another party doesnt necessarily mean the DCS arrangement 
isnt in place.
Furthermore the evidence makes clear that there are two contracts in play here. There is the 
contract Mr S has with Firm T to provide booking services of flights which is central to this 
complaint. And then Mr S has a contract with the airline for the provision of flights. Mr S isnt 
complaining about flights he never boarded. Hes complaining about the service of booking 
and amending the tickets that Firm T provides. And Firm Ts terms and conditions make 
clear that those booking with it have a contract with Firm T and that we facilitate bookings 
and it also says To request a change of date to your booking please contact our call centre. 
So clearly in relation to the service Firm T provides of booking, facilitating, and amending 
flights there is the Debtor (Mr S), the Creditor (NewDay) and the Supplier of this service 
(Firm T).
So Im satisfied the DCS arrangement is in place and that NewDay can be held liable under 
S75 for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by Firm T as a like claim. NewDays 
comments are far from persuasive.
The evidence I have relied upon
Mr S has provided phone records showing he talked with Firm T on the 8 July 2021 and 12 
July 2021. He has also provided an email he sent to a named individual at Firm T dated 15 July 2021 which states as previously agreed to book for 2022. Hes also provided later 
emails showing that Firm T has told him that its representative with whom Mr S names as 
being the person he had spoken to, no longer worked for Firm T. Mr S has also provided 
detailed testimony as to what happened and when. Hes also provided postal records of 
contact he made to Firm T in terms of the evidence of Firm T receiving his post that he sent 
it. Mr S has been consistent and detailed in his testimony. I find it persuasive.
NewDay has not provided any evidence to counter what Mr S has said in terms of what 
happened when Mr S spoke with the named individual at Firm T. And it hasnt provided any 
persuasive arguments on what happened in these calls and emails, despite having had 
opportunities to do so. I note Firm T hasnt provided persuasive comment on what Mr S says 
happened in his conversations with the representative of Firm T. NewDay has chosen not to 
provide information on the facts of the matter when it received the Investigators 
assessment. It also chose to provide no legal analysis of the DCS issue, further evidence of 
what happened here or even any significant arguments on the matter after the assessment 
of the investigator. It has done little to properly consider S75 and its related obligations 
properly to my mind.
Considering Mr S significant evidence both in terms of testimony and supporting 
contemporaneous evidence and NewDays unpersuasive position and negligible arguments 
on the matter, on balance, Im satisfied Mr S spoke to Firm T and it arranged such 
placeholder booking with the Airline, and this was based on what Firm Ts representative 
told him including that he could later move it to 2022. So Im satisfied that Firm T breached 
the agreement Mr S had with it by not making the booking for 2022 when he agreed to the 
placeholder booking with it in July 2021 and from then on when it didnt alter the placeholder 
booking as he subsequently requested. 
It appears that Firm T decided not to liaise with Mr S from July 2021 onwards or honour Mr 
S agreement to book for 2022 even though it received his emails, correspondence and calls 
and had time to do so (the placeholder booking was October 2021). So it seems likely that 
what he was told on that call wasnt in line with Firm Ts processes. So, on balance, Im 
satisfied he reasonably relied on misrepresentations by Firm Ts representative when 
booking for October 2021 and was entitled to reasonably do so based on what he was told 
and that the representative being a legitimate representative of Firm T. Accordingly Im 
satisfied that NewDay should be liable for a like claim under S75 and it should redress the 
matter accordingly.
NewDay has not properly engaged with this matter throughout this case. As such it isnt 
clear what Firm T should have done when Mr S flights became unavailable in July 2021 
(they didnt take place). But as he was treated as a no show for the flights he booked as a 
placeholder (and thus has lost the value of them due to this misrepresentation and because 
Firm T didnt address this misrepresentation/breach of agreed terms between July and 
October 2021) it is my decision that it is fair that he is refunded the amount he paid originally 
for these tickets. And that NewDay pays interest, as hes been without these funds since the 
point it should have properly addressed his S75 claim. Mr S was in regular contact with Firm 
T through a number of different means and it has not engaged with him. So all the failings 
here flow from the misrepresentation and breach that happened here by Firm Ts representative and how Firm T treated Mr S from then. And under S75 NewDay is equally 
liable to this like claim.
Mr S has made arguments about the amounts hes had to pay on his account with NewDay 
during this process. Mr S has always had the option of paying more than the minimum 
amount and clearing the amount owed. Mr S has always been liable for paying a monthly 
amount and just because NewDay has a like claim against it doesnt mean its done anything 
wrong in asking Mr S to make his payments on his outstanding balance. How Mr S manages 
his account sits with him.
Putting things right
NewDay must refund £2,021.46 to Mr S along with 8% simple interest from the date he 
asked it to consider his Section 75 claim (15 December 2021) to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against NewDay Limited. It should pay 
Mr S as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman