DRN-1703750
The complaint
Mr R complains that he wasnt told that he was entering into a credit agreement with Virgin 
Media Mobile Finance Limited when he upgraded his mobile phone, or that there was a 
charge for the new handset. 
What happened
 
In May 2019 Mr R spoke to Virgin about upgrading his current mobile phone handset. Virgin 
says that following this conversation it sent Mr R, via email, a fixed sum loan agreement for 
the cost of a new handset. Virgin says that Mr R signed this agreement electronically and 
returned it. A new handset was sent to Mr R in June 2019.
Mr R says he was unaware that he was making monthly payments to Virgin for the new 
handset as he had thought it was a free upgrade. When he noticed the direct debit 
payments, he contacted Virgin and complained. 
Virgin didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the order for the new handset could only be 
completed on receipt of the electronically signed credit agreement and that Mr R had been 
sent, and duly signed, that agreement. Virgin said that as Mr R had received the new 
handset and had been using it then, if he wished to cancel the contract, he would need to 
pay the buyout fee for the handset.
Mr R was unhappy at Virgins response and complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He said that Virgin had provided 
a copy of the electronically signed credit agreement which set out the terms and monthly 
instalments due for the handset.
Our adjudicator said that an electronic signature was as acceptable as a wet ink signature 
and so he was satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr R had agreed to the terms. 
He also said that Virgin had sent Mr R a statement of account and terms of the contract. He 
said he didnt think Virgin had acted unfairly by taking the monthly payments for the handset.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators view as he said he hadnt received the credit 
agreement or signed it electronically. He also said Virgin hadnt supplied him with a copy of 
it. Mr R said he believed the handset had been a free upgrade and he hadnt needed a new 
phone.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr R spoke with Virgin Media about an upgrade, or that he received a 
new handset shortly afterwards. However, Mr R says that he wasnt aware there would be a 
charge for this phone, and he never received or signed a credit agreement for it. He had 
queried the monthly payments being taken from his account as soon as he had noticed 
them, though he accepts this was some time later.
When Mr R first complained to this service, he raised that Virgin Media hadnt supplied him 
with a copy of the credit agreement. It had provided only a copy of the statement of the 
account. He said that there wasnt any proof hed taken out a credit agreement.
Ive seen that Virgin Media didnt provide a copy of the credit at the time Mr R first made his 
complaint, but instead advised him to check his emails. It said the agreement had been sent 
and signed electronically. Subsequently, Virgin Media has provided a copy with Mr Rs 
electronic signature on it. Mr R has questioned the authenticity of that document and says 
that it could have been created later. 
I dont have a copy of the call between Mr R and Virgin Medias agent, so I dont know what 
was said. The details of the call arent set out in the account notes for Mr R either. Where 
information is missing or contradictory then I have to decide what is the most likely thing to 
have happened.
Here, its agreed an upgrade was discussed and Virgin Media says it sent out the credit 
agreement for the handset via email. Mr R says he doesnt recall receiving or signing the 
credit agreement and queries an electronic signature as valid proof that he signed the 
document. However, electronic signatures are now commonly used, and it isnt complicated 
for one to be added to an agreement. An electronic signature is treated the same as a wet 
ink one. Ive also seen that a direct debit notice was sent to Mr Rs home address, shortly 
after the credit agreement was signed, advising of the monthly payments.
So, while I appreciate there is no clear evidence about what was agreed during the phone 
call between Mr R and Virgin Media when the upgrade was arranged, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr R was told there would be a charge for the phone. I also think that its more 
likely than not that Mr R electronically signed and agreed the credit agreement to cover the 
cost of the handset. I dont think that, in these circumstances, I can reasonably say that 
Virgin Media has acted fraudulently by subsequently creating the credit agreement.
As Mr R has had use of the handset then I think its fair and reasonable that he should pay 
for it. So, Im not going to ask Virgin Media to reimburse the payments already made or 
cancel the amount thats outstanding.
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Jocelyn GriffithOmbudsman