DRN-1734134
The complaint
Miss D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined a claim made 
under her travel insurance policy. 
What happened 
In July 2019 Miss D took a trip to the Isle of Wight. The evening before her trip was due to 
end, Miss D returned to London to visit the theatre, with the intention of returning to the 
island for her final night. Whilst at the theatre, Miss Ds rucksack, along with all her travel 
items, was stolen. Miss D reported the theft to the police and made a claim under her travel 
insurance policy.
Ageas declined her claim. They said the policy made clear that Miss Ds trips would be 
covered if they included at least two nights' accommodation, which must have been paid for 
and pre-booked. Miss D had sent Ageas a screenshot of a message from the person shed 
stayed with, which said shed pre-booked her stay with them by phone and paid cash on 
arrival. Ageas said they couldnt accept this as evidence because it was insufficient. They 
also questioned Miss Ds intention to return to the island after the show. 
Miss D didnt agree. She felt the email from the person shed stayed with was enough 
evidence to show shed paid and pre-booked her accommodation. She asked the person 
shed stayed with to send her a retrospective invoice and felt this was enough to show shed 
paid for her stay at the property.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. He said that, in the absence of a booking 
confirmation email or evidence of payment from the time she stayed, Ageas had acted 
reasonably in saying Miss D hadnt provided enough evidence to show shed pre-booked 
and paid for her accommodation on the island. 
Miss D didnt agree. She said the property she stayed in was rented privately and she was 
unable to provide any other evidence to show it was pre-booked and paid for. As Miss D 
didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I didnt agree with all of the investigators findings. So I sent a provisional decision to Miss D 
and Ageas to explain why I intended to come to a different outcome to the investigator. 
Miss D accepted my decision. Ageas maintained their position that Miss D hadnt provided 
enough evidence to show she had been staying in paid for and pre-booked accommodation. 
They instead believe she was staying with friends. They said she had paid on arrival and 
hadnt pre-paid as per the policy. They also questioned why she would have taken so many 
of her belongings in her bag if she was genuinely intending to return to the Isle of Wight.
I will address these issues below but I dont think they cause me to change my findings and 
my decision, which are substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss Ds accommodation
I need to consider whether I think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to rely on the policy term 
theyve quoted to decline Miss Ds claim. And, in the circumstances, I dont think it is.
The policy term says a trip within the UK is only covered if it includes at least two nights' 
accommodation, which must have been paid for and pre-booked. The policy wording doesnt 
say the accommodation must have been booked and pre-paid as Ageas have said in their 
response to my provisional decision. Having seen the photos and travel receipts Miss D 
gave Ageas, I dont think theres any doubt she went on a trip to the Isle of Wight and stayed 
for more than two nights. What is in dispute is whether she paid for and pre-booked her 
accommodation. 
Miss D says she stayed at a friend of a friends house. She says she pre-booked her stay 
by phone sometime in June 2019 and paid £50 cash for her stay on arrival as the owners of 
the property charged very little to cover the costs. 
Ive considered whether the type of arrangement Miss D had was excluded within the policy 
terms. The terms and conditions dont define what they mean by accommodation and I cant 
see that theres any limitation on the cover Ageas have provided for the type of arrangement 
Miss D had with the owner of the property she stayed in. So, Im satisfied Miss Ds 
accommodation was covered under the policy. 
Ive seen a copy of a statement from the person Miss D stayed with, which confirms she did 
pre-book her stay by phone and paid cash on arrival. The person also provided their contact 
details and offered to provide any further details if needed.
I recognise that a statement isnt as persuasive as a booking confirmation or invoice. But I 
can understand why a booking confirmation or invoice wasnt given to Miss D in these 
circumstances and I think it would be difficult for her to provide alternative evidence. So, I 
think its reasonable that Miss D was only able to provide a statement from the person she 
stayed with as evidence in support of her claim. And as that evidence says that shed pre-
booked and paid for the accommodation she stayed in, I think it was unfair for Ageas to 
decline her claim on the basis that shed provided insufficient evidence.
Miss Ds intentions to return to the Isle of Wight
Ageas have questioned whether Miss D intended to return to the Isle of Wight after the 
theatre. Theyve said the last ferry from Portsmouth to the Isle of Wight was scheduled to 
depart at 10.15pm that evening, which didnt give her much time to get from London to 
Portsmouth. It also queried why her bag contained so many items if she intended to return to 
the Isle of Wight and noted that her home address was around 11 miles from the theatre.
Ageas havent explained why theyve questioned Miss Ds intentions to return to the Isle of 
Wight after the theatre. But I assume its because her policy only covers her while shes on a 
trip  and question whether her trip had ended at the point shed decided to return to London 
for the theatre show.
The terms and conditions of the policy say a trip is defined as a holiday or business trip that 
starts and finishes from the policy holders home address in the UK. It says the start and end dates of the trip must fall within the period of insurance. The policy terms also say home is 
defined as the address where the policy holder lives. 
Miss D has provided evidence of the beginning and end dates of her trip to the Isle of Wight. 
Both dates fall within the period of her insurance. Shes also been consistent in saying that it 
was her intention to return to the Isle of Wight after her visit to London. While Miss D 
returned to London to visit the theatre a day before the trip end date, theres no evidence to 
suggest shed returned to her home address before the theatre show. Based on the 
definitions set out within the policy terms, Miss D was still on her trip at the time the theft 
took place. So, Im not sure why Ageas questioned Miss Ds intentions to return to the Isle of 
Wight. In any event, shes explained why she took one bag of belongings with her and shes 
provided evidence to show that there were ferries running between Portsmouth and the Isle 
of Wight much later than 10.15pm on the night in question.
In light of the above, and based on the circumstances of this case, I dont think Ageas have 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining Miss Ds claim for the reasons theyve given.
Putting things right
Miss D has given Ageas a copy of the police report and evidence of the loss shes incurred 
as a result of her bag being stolen. To put things right, I think Ageas should pay Miss Ds 
claim subject to the policy limit and any applicable excess as per the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and direct Ageas Insurance 
Limited to pay the balance of the travel insurance claim in accordance with the remaining 
policy terms, plus 8% simple interest annually from the date the claim was submitted to the 
date of settlement. (If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Miss D how much its taken 
off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman