DRN-3037639
The complaint
Mrs N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has unfairly recorded 
adverse information with the credit reference agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Mrs N had a Barclaycard account. She says she had an agreement with Barclays whereby it 
would freeze her account while she took out secured credit to repay her balance in full. She 
says it was agreed her credit file wouldnt be adversely impacted. 
In the event, she paid off her balance in full, but Barclays has reported missed payments on 
her credit file. Mrs N complains this is unfair and says had she known her credit file would be 
adversely impacted she would have made her contractual repayments. 
Our investigators reviewed what had happened. She wasnt persuaded Barclays had misled 
Mrs N on what would be reported to the CRAs so she didnt think the complaint should 
succeed. Mrs N didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N had a Barclaycard account. To maintain the account  and therefore avoid adverse 
information being reported to the CRAs  she needed to make at least minimum repayments 
by certain due dates each month. In 2020 Mrs N struggled with repayments as a result of the 
pandemic, so Barclays agreed to Covid-related payment deferrals as per Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidance. 
By late 2020 Mrs N had used the maximum number of deferrals, so a longer-term repayment 
plan was needed. I can see from Barclays internal records Mrs N called to discuss a 
repayment plan in January 2021 which led to Barclays sending her an income and 
expenditure form to complete. In my view Barclays action here were reasonable as I 
wouldnt expect it to agree a long-term plan without understanding a customers financial 
circumstances.
Mrs N called Barclays in February 2021 to say she didnt want a repayment plan and would 
be taking out a secured loan to repay her balance. Mrs N didnt think the money would be 
available for about two weeks, so Barclays froze interest and charges. Im satisfied that was 
reasonable in the circumstances as it meant Mrs Ns debt didnt increase. I havent seen 
anything to suggest Barclays said this wouldnt impact Mrs Ns credit file.
Mrs N called Barclays again on 19 March 2021, and again on 22 March 2021, to ask if the 
freeze could be extended as she wasnt due to get money from the secured loan until 
April 2021. She is recorded as saying she wanted to avoid a major impact on her credit file. 
Barclays had agreed in the 19 March 2021 to extend the freeze, which for the same reasons 
as above, I find reasonable. The 19 March 2021 call was followed up with a letter dated 
21 March 2021 which said, amongst other things:
As youve now missed three payments on you Barclaycard account, we need to let you 
know what happens next.
These missed payments will have a negative impact on your credit rating and could make it 
harder for you to get credit in the future.
I havent seen any compelling evidence to persuade me Barclays agreed its actions 
(freezing interest and charges) and Mrs Ns actions (not making contractual repayments) 
wouldnt impact Mrs Ns credit file and in my view said impact is clear from Barclays 
21 March 2021 letter.
Mrs N updated Barclays on how the secured loan money was progressing in April 2021, 
which led to another letter which said, amongst other things:
We still need to update the Credit Reference Agencies and let them know that youre not 
making your minimum payments each month and that youre in arrears, which may affect 
your ability to get credit in the future.
In May 2021, having seemingly not heard from Mrs N in a while, Barclays sent a further letter 
which said, amongst other things:
Also, each time you miss a payment, well register this with the Credit Reference Agencies, 
which will affect your credit rating and make it harder for you to get credit in the future.
And:
What happens next?
If you keep missing your monthly payments, well send you a Default Notice. This is a 
formal notice that gives you 28 days to fully clear any outstanding arrears or call us to 
agree a way forward.
A few days later Mrs N repaid the balance in full and the account closed. My understanding 
is Barclays then went on to record the account as settled with the CRAs. I understand the 
late payments Barclays recorded in the lead up to the account closing has impacted Mrs N. 
But Mrs N was missing contractual repayments to her account, and as this is important 
account information Barclays had a duty to record this with the CRAs. And I havent been 
provided with compelling evidence Barclays said it wouldnt report accurate account 
information to the CRAs.
In any case, if I were to conclude Barclays incorrectly said it wouldnt report accurate 
account information to the CRAs, Id have to be satisfied that but for this error, Mrs N would 
(and could) have made her contractual repayments. Im not persuaded she would (and 
could) have. I say this because her reason for contracting Barclays initially was to discuss 
her inability to make her repayments, she needed to take out secured credit to deal with her 
finances, her repayments werent small, and when it was apparent from Barclays letters her 
credit file would be impacted, Mrs N didnt make repayments. 
I accept this has been a difficult time for Mrs N and she has my sympathies. However, I must 
review things objectively and have done so, I dont find Barclays has treated her unfairly. It 
follows this isnt a complaint I should uphold.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman