DRN-3851524
The complaint
Mr R complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) lent to him irresponsibly when it 
gave him a loan that he says he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr R took out an unsecured loan for £14,000 with Sainsburys in June 2022. He told 
Sainsburys he wanted to buy a motorcycle, but he has since said that he had gambled 
excessively and needed the money to pay off those debts. 
Mr R says that Sainsburys failed to conduct sufficient checks on his individual financial 
position. He thinks Sainsburys was negligent in allowing him to take the loan. He asks that 
Sainsburys remove any interest and remove the loan from his credit file.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. Mr R disagreed.
Our investigator reviewed the further points Mr R made but concluded it didnt make a 
difference to their view. As Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as that of our investigator. I will explain 
why I have reached this decision. 
Sainsburys needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Rs income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Sainsburys should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr R. These factors include 
things like understanding Mr Rs income, the total amount Mr R borrowed, and the length of 
time Mr R had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
In Mr Rs case, he told Sainsburys that he earned £35,000 a year. Sainsburys also did 
credit checks. These didnt reveal any financial difficulties  Mr R had no arrears, no CCJs or 
other defaults on his credit history. The checks showed that Mr had total unsecured debt 
elsewhere of £2,250. Sainsburys used Office of National Statistics data to calculate Mr Rs 
outgoings and these indicated Mr R had over £880 of disposable income each month. It 
seemed that Mr R had ample disposable income to be able to sustainably repay the loan at 
a rate of £306 a month.
Mr R says that he had very recently taken out two credit cards and he had used these to 
gamble excessively. He says if Sainsburys had asked for his bank statements it would have 
realised he couldnt afford the loan. But I dont think Sainsburys needed to do this. Mr Rs 
credit file was not showing that he was excessively indebted (it may be that the spending on 
the credit cards had not yet been reported to credit reference agencies). I think that 
Sainsburys should fairly have been able to rely on what Mr R told it about his intentions for 
the loan. If Mr R had told Sainsburys that he was borrowing to pay off gambling debts rather 
than to buy a motorcycle then I consider it likely Sainsburys would have done further checks 
or declined the loan. But based on the information it had, both from Mr R himself and 
external sources, I think Sainsburys conducted proportionate and appropriate checks and 
that it did not act unfairly in providing the credit to Mr R. 
In conclusion, I do not think Sainsburys acted unfairly or unreasonably when it lent to Mr R 
and so I do not think Mr R lost out as a result of anything Sainsburys did wrong. It follows 
that I do not think Sainsburys needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint which means Sainsburys Bank Plc does not need to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman