DRN-3609476
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In March 2021, Mr B applied for a Virgin Money current account. Virgin Money was 
concerned that inconsistencies in the information Mr B provided. So it declined Mr Bs 
application and also recorded a fraud prevention marker against him - in particular, Virgin 
Money was concerned that Mr B failed to disclose a previous address which had adverse 
information recorded against him. Mr B complained after learning that Virgin Money had 
recorded a fraud prevention marker against him. Virgin Money looked at Mr Bs complaint 
and didnt uphold it. As Mr B remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She thought that Virgin Money had 
unfairly recorded the fraud prevention marker against Mr B. Virgin Money disagreed with our 
adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Virgin Money has filed is intended to record that there was application 
fraud  relating to Mr B using his real name but providing other false information in an 
application for a financial product. In order to file such a marker, it isnt required to prove 
beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show 
that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain their version of events in order to understand their 
level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Virgin Money had 
enough evidence to show that Mr B did provide materially false information. Secondly, Virgin 
Money also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately dishonest 
when doing so and that any discrepancies werent simply down to a mistake or 
misunderstanding. Its also important to note Virgin Money had to have enough evidence to 
meet both parts of test for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, I dont think that Virgin Money did have enough to record a fraud 
marker. I firstly say this because Virgin Money hasnt provided me with anything to indicate 
that it obtained Mr Bs version of events before recording the marker. I accept it believed the 
information it obtained from credit reference agencies indicated that Mr B had provided false 
information. But at best this, on its own, is only really enough to trigger suspicion or concern 
and it doesnt clearly demonstrate that Mr B was deliberately dishonest. Indeed, I have to 
question how Virgin Money could possibly have assessed Mr Bs knowledge and intention 
before it recorded the fraud marker against him when it looks like it didnt speak to him 
before doing so - arguably this in itself is unfair.
In any event, Im not persuaded that the information Virgin Money has provided clearly 
demonstrates that Mr B provided false information when making his application. Virgin 
Money has said it considers Mr B provided false information because he said that he lived at 
the address he provided on his application, which Ill refer to as address A, since August 
2020. It says this is false because the credit checks it carried out show that Mr B only went 
on the voters roll at this address in February 2021. 
Furthermore, Mr B only disclosed one other previous address (which Ill refer to address B), 
which he said he lived at from February 2017, but he only went on the voters roll there in 
May 2018. Virgin Money doesnt believe Mr B moved to address B in February 2017 as his 
credit file shows he had a default registered against him at a different address (which Ill 
refer to as address C) in September 2017. Virgin Money says Mr B deliberately omitted this 
address from his application because he had 4 defaults registered against him there.
Ive looked at the information provided. And I agree that a default may well have been 
recorded against Mr B on an account registered to address C, in September 2017. So its 
clear that the adverse information was recorded on an account registered to address C, after 
Mr B said hed already moved to address B. However, I dont think that it automatically 
follows that Mr B knowingly and dishonestly provided Virgin Money with false information. 
And having considered everything, I dont think that Mr B was dishonest in his application. I 
say this for a number of reasons.  
Firstly, having listened to the call where Mr B made his account application, its clear that        
Mr B was equivocal in his declaration that he moved to address B in February 2017. Indeed, 
Mr B was asked where he lived prior to address A and declared address B. When Mr B was 
asked when he moved to address B he initially said 2017. Its clear he was about to say he 
didnt remember when in 2017 he moved to this address but then said he moved there in 
February of that year. But given how the conversation went, I think that Virgin Money ought 
to have known that this was an approximation, rather then a definitive statement. 
Mr B was not asked where he lived prior to moving to address B. So I dont think that its fair 
and reasonable for Virgin Money to say that Mr B failed to disclose an address he was asked 
about. And given the length of time that had passed, I dont think that Virgin Money would 
have asked this question even if Mr B had said that he moved to address B at the latest 
possible date in 2017 anyway.
Equally, Im not necessarily persuaded that the evidence and information Virgin Money is 
relying on conclusively demonstrates that Mr B didnt move to address B in February 2017 
either. To explain, it can take a period of time for someone to update a change of address on 
the voters roll. Furthermore, the account Virgin Money has referred to (to show that Mr B 
was attempting to conceal adverse credit information) only defaulted in September 2017. It 
would have been opened sometime before this and the account defaulting at this time, at best, demonstrates that Mr B may have failed to keep a creditor up to date with a change of 
address, rather than him having definitively moved to address B after September 2017.
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, Id also question why Mr B would have dishonestly 
omitted address C from his application. The information for relied upon for Mr Bs account 
application was mainly provided during an earlier phone call. And Mr B clearly began this 
phone call by asking if he could apply for a Basic M account because he had poor credit and 
was in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement. It was Virgin Moneys representative that 
decided to try and apply for a full current account instead. In these circumstances, it is 
difficult for me to see what benefit Mr B wouldve seen by withholding an address where 
adverse information had been recorded, given what hed already declared to Virgin Money. 
Of course, I accept it is possible that Mr B intentionally tried to deceive Virgin Money in the 
way it says he did. And that was enough for it to be suspicious or concerned. But the 
important thing here it that is Virgin Moneys responsibility to demonstrate that Mr B 
knowingly and dishonestly provided false information. And I think that it has failed to do that 
here. 
Virgin Money needed to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the 
matter to the police. Simply pointing out that adverse information was recorded against Mr B, 
at an address, at a time he says he was living somewhere else  especially where it didnt 
obtain Mr Bs version of events - just isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is 
especially the case seeing as the facts and circumstances of this case appear to support  
that Mr B didnt knowingly act dishonestly here.   
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Virgin Money had sufficient 
evidence to meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Mr B. As this is the case, I 
think that it was unfair for Virgin Money to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and Virgin Money needs to 
remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money should remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman