DRN-3437820
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice he was given by Well Dunn Limited trading as Insurance 
Revolution Broking Services (Well Dunn) during a claim he made on his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy. He also complains it unfairly passed an outstanding balance to a debt 
collector.
Reference to Well Dunn includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A held a commercial vehicle insurance policy administered by Well Dunn. His vehicle was 
stolen, and he made a claim which was dealt with by insurer.
Mr A called Well Dunn to see if he could add a replacement vehicle on to the policy. He was 
told this would be possible.
Mr A then found another vehicle and paid a deposit to secure the purchase of it. He called 
Well Dunn to let it know, add it to the policy and see if any additional premium would be due. 
But Well Dunn said the vehicle Mr A wanted to insure wasnt acceptable to the insurer and 
couldnt be added to the policy.
Mr A wasnt happy with this and asked why he wasnt told about any limits or restriction on 
what type of vehicle could be added when he asked if one could be added to the policy. And 
he said when he later asked about another vehicle, the vehicle had been sold by the time 
Well Dunn got back to him. Mr A said his employer couldnt wait for him to get a new vehicle, 
and as a result he lost his job.
Mr A complained further when he found that there was an outstanding balance on his policy 
that had been sold to a debt collection agency without him knowing.
Well Dunn said it should have made it clearer to Mr A that not every vehicle could be added 
to the policy, but it said ultimately that is the insurers decision. It said all it can do is ask the 
insurer whether it will consider adding the new vehicle to the policy, which it felt it did. Well 
Dunn said it should have called Mr A to let him know his debt was being passed on to debt 
collectors. But it said it did email him several times to inform him. Well Dunn offered £100 
compensation.
Mr A didnt think this was enough and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought 
Well Dunn should increase its offer to £200 compensation.
Well Dunn didnt agree, nor did Mr A. So, the case has come to me to issue a decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im partly upholding this complaint. I know this answer wont be what either 
Well Dunn or Mr A were hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
In this case, there are two key, widely accepted errors. The first being that Well Dunn didnt 
clearly let Mr A know that his choice of replacement vehicle may not be able to be added to 
the policy. The second is not informing Mr A over the phone that his debt would be passed to 
a debt collector.
As both these errors are accepted, I see no benefit in discussing how they were made. The 
key point is the impact of these errors.
Mr A should have been told that there was a chance a replacement vehicle may not have 
been able to be added to his policy. I dont think Well Dunn needed to tell him all the 
parameters of what vehicles can be added to the policy, as ultimately, as its pointed out, 
that decision lies with the underwriter of the policy. But, I think had Well Dunn told Mr A there 
was a chance the vehicle may not have been acceptable to the insurer, he likely wouldnt 
have paid a deposit on a vehicle he intended to purchase without first knowing it could be 
added to the policy. Luckily Mr A got this deposit back this time. But hes said this took a lot 
of work and that he was thankful of the proposed sellers generosity.
I know Mr A holds Well Dunn responsible for him losing his job, but I dont think I can fairly 
do the same. Mr A called to ask about replacing the vehicle on the policy on 18 February, he 
was told on 21 February that his chosen vehicle wasnt accepted by the insurer. On 
23 February Mr A was told the age the vehicle needs to be in order to be accepted. I 
appreciate that Mr A has said he then had to chase to see if a second vehicle was accepted, 
and by the time he got an answer that vehicle had been sold to someone else. By 26 
February Mr A said his employer wasnt able to keep his job open for him. But I dont 
consider the delays in letting Mr A know unreasonable, nor do I think its fair to hold it 
accountable for the vehicle being sold, or Mr As employer deciding to let him go within that 
timeframe.
In relation to passing the debt on, Well Dunn has acknowledged it should have called Mr A 
to tell him his debt would be passed on. But I can see that it did email Mr A several times 
letting him know he had an outstanding balance, that he needed to call them, and that if he 
didnt, the debt would be passed on. The debt was recalled when the complaint was raised, 
and Well Dunn has confirmed this wont affect Mr As credit rating.
Putting things right
Well Dunn has offered £100 compensation to Mr A to put this right. But like our investigator I 
dont think this is enough in this case. I think a figure of £200 is fairer. I acknowledge Well 
Dunn emailed Mr A to let him know his debt would be passed on if he didnt pay it, but its 
acknowledged it should have called him. And not doing so would have caused a degree of 
distress when Mr A found out. 
In addition, had Mr A been correctly informed of the possibility his choice of replacement 
vehicle may not  have been accepted by the insurer, it think its unlikely hed have paid a 
deposit for a vehicle without first knowing hed be able to add it to his policy. Luckily, he got 
this deposit back, but this too would have caused Mr A distress in thinking hed lost that 
deposit, and inconvenience in trying to get it back from the seller.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I partly uphold this complaint and require Well Dunn Limited 
trading as Insurance Revolution Broking Services to:Pay Mr A an additional £100 compensation  taking the total amount paid to £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman