DRN-1950755
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
December 2009. Mr B says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B. Ill explain why Im not upholding his case below.
Based on the information Ive seen I think Mr Bs PPI policy was bought through an internet 
application. NatWest shouldve made Mr B aware he had a choice about buying the PPI. 
Mr B says the optional nature of the PPI wasnt made clear to him and there was no chance 
for him to opt out of the cover. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr B has said whilst reviewing the information NatWest has 
provided about how the PPI was sold. NatWest has provided a copy of the credit agreement 
that was generated at the time Mr B applied for his credit card. On this credit agreement 
there is a separate section for the PPI. Within this is states: I wish to purchase Payment 
Protection and a tick has been placed next to this. This is followed by a short statement 
about the PPI and Mr B had to tick again to sign for the cover. I can see both boxes have 
been ticked. And this section is entirely separate to the credit card application and there is 
no indication within the form Mr B had to agree to the cover if he wanted the credit card. As 
this was an online sale there wouldnt have been any input from a NatWest adviser either. 
So on balance I think NatWest made it clear the PPI was optional, and that he chose to take 
it out. But considering how long ago the sale was its understandable that he no longer 
remembers it.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him and met his individual needs. Instead it had to make sure Mr B got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Mr B says the benefits of the policy were not made clear to him. Its possible the information 
NatWest gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose to take 
out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mr B was 
affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it wouldve been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Mr B has referred to an existing medical condition he had 
at the time he took out the cover. Looking at the terms of the PPI it doesnt look like pre-
existing conditions were excluded. So it seems Mr B wouldve ben able to claim under the 
policy for this condition and any other related illnesses. I think this wouldve been particularly 
useful for Mr B if he was unable to work due to his condition.  
Mr B says he wouldve received significant employer benefits if he was off work sick or was 
made redundant. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay or redundancy package 
Mr B wouldve received and it wouldve paid for up to 12 months if necessary. This wouldve 
allowed Mr B to use his employer benefits to cover any other expenses and costs he may 
have had to cover. So, I think he wouldve found the additional protection the policy provided 
useful.
The PPI cost Mr B 75p per £100 of Mr Bs monthly statement balance. There isnt anything 
to show this wasnt affordable to Mr B. And as the policys premiums were paid monthly and 
separately detailed on his statements, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his 
needs. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
Which means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But 
NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, but for the reasons explained above, I dont 
think NatWest needs to do anything more to resolve his complaint. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have to pay back to Mr B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already paid some of the commission and profit share to Mr B so I dont think it needs to do 
anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman