DRN-3389334
The complaint
Mr R complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Burley Fox Limited (Burley 
Fox) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
Mr R is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which he provided to both the CMC and Burley Fox. I dont intend to repeat here 
what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr R, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr R to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Rs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 11 years and 3 months qualifying service between December 2005 
and March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, qualifying service and 
benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his annual 
scheme pension was £5,178. The scheme pension would be revalued by a 
prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, 
once in payment, would also escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at age 65 was 
£9,758 or a reduced pension of £6,741, plus tax-free cash of £44,942. And at age 58 
it was £6,116 or a reduced pension of £4,234, plus tax-free cash of £28,228;
In the event the BSPS fell into the PPF, the estimated revalued annual scheme 
pension payable by the PPF at age 65 was £8,869 or a reduced pension of £6,652, 
plus tax-free cash of £55,188. And at age 58 it was £6,980 or a reduced pension of 
£5,235, plus tax-free cash of £54,932;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £121,310.64. 
In response to the announcement by Tata Steel, Mr R contacted Burley Fox for advice. He 
met one of its advisers in October 2017. A fact find document and attitude to risk 
questionnaire were completed which recorded the following information about Mr R:
He was aged 32 and in good health. His partner was also aged 32 and in good 
health. They were engaged to be married. They had three financially dependent 
children aged between 1 and 7;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£33,000. His partner didnt work at that time but planned to do so in the future when 
their children were older;
Their assets comprised the residential home valued at £120,000. They didnt have 
any other savings or investments;
Their liabilities comprised a repayment mortgage of £84,000 on their residential 
home (the remaining term on the mortgage doesnt appear to have been recorded). 
He also had an unsecured personal loan and credit card debt of about £25,000. He 
had surplus disposable monthly income of about £1,000;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the State pension at age 68 and had been a member of Tata Steels defined 
contribution (DC) pension scheme since April 2017. The total annual contribution 
into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary. His partner didnt have any 
private retirement provision; and
He had limited investment experience. His risk profile was determined to be 
Moderate.
In the fact find document, it was noted:
[Mr R] is interested in looking at transferring his British Steel Pension scheme 
following the restructure. He has been sent a CETV and benefits statement.He said that he would like to retire at 58 as he does not want to be working shifts 
beyond that age and draw around £1k per month from his pension. He would also 
like to be able to access his TFC lump sum to clear any mortgage or debts he may 
have at that time.
If he does transfer his BSPS he would like to invest the proceeds utilising our APS 
service as he would like to maximise investment returns to retirement..
In November 2017, Burley Fox issued its suitability report to Mr R. The report confirmed                  
his concerns and objectives, summarised as follows:
PPF: He wasnt convinced about the longevity of Tata Steel in the UK and was 
concerned about the value of his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF, 
leading to a reduction in the level of retirement benefits; 
Inflation: He was concerned that, with at least 26 years until he retired, inflation 
could rise above the 2.5% capped revaluation rate applied to his safeguarded 
benefits, leaving him worse off in real terms if he left his benefits preserved in the 
BSPS (or BSPS2);
Early retirement: His role at Tata Steel involved shift work. He wanted the option to 
be able to retire from his role at age 58 and start drawing pension benefits at that 
time, possibly combined with remaining employed but seeking a different role within 
Tata Steel. He wanted to receive annual retirement income of about £12,000 (net of 
income tax) in 2017 terms on the basis that he didnt have a mortgage or any other 
liabilities at that time;
Tax-free cash: He wanted to maximise the tax-free cash available from his pension 
benefits at retirement to clear any outstanding mortgage or buy a bigger house; and
Death benefits: He preferred for any unused benefits on his death to be available to 
his partner and children as a death lump sum benefit rather than as a percentage of 
his pension income.
Burley Fox recommended that Mr R transfer to a SIPP. In summary, it stated that the 
transfer would provide investment control and greater flexibility in terms of retirement and 
death benefits. The costs associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability 
report, as follows:
Initial charge
£1,500 initial adviser charge
Ongoing annual charges deducted from the SIPP fund value 
The ongoing charge was 2.25%, broken down as follows:
1.00% ongoing adviser charge
0.81% annual fund management charge
0.39% platform charge
0.05% platform administration chargeMr R accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the SIPP was completed 
in early 2018 after the provider received the transfer value of £121,310.64. Burley Fox 
recommended that, after the deduction of its initial adviser charge, the transfer value be 
invested in its Advisory Portfolio Service or APS which involved actively managing the 
underlying investment in a portfolio across various asset classes to align with Mr Rs 
Moderate risk profile  a separate, detailed investment report in connection with this was 
provided to Mr R.
This complaint
During 2021, the CMC, on behalf of Mr R, complained to Burley Fox about the suitability of 
its pension transfer advice. In summary, the CMC stated that the advice was unsuitable 
because it led to Mr R losing valuable guarantees and secure income without good reason.
Burley Fox didnt uphold this complaint. It stated that the CMC had made untrue and 
misleading statements when it complained on Mr Rs behalf. In summary, it stated that it had 
considered all three options available to Mr R (the PPF, BSPS2 or pension transfer) and that 
a pension transfer was the only viable option to enable him to achieve his objectives relating 
to control, early retirement and flexibility, and death benefits. In its view, neither the BPS2 
nor PPF wouldve enabled Mr R to achieve his objectives. It was satisfied that it had adhered 
to and considered relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr R with all the 
necessary information and risk warnings to be able to make an informed decision.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that Burley Foxs recommendation to transfer wasnt clearly 
demonstrated to be in Mr Rs best interests. He noted that the critical yield figures attached 
to the transaction indicated that there was limited potential for Mr R to be better off by 
transferring. He reasoned that Mr R was about 26 years away from his preferred retirement 
age of 58, so there wasnt any urgency to transfer at that time, particularly since there was a 
lack of clarity about what his circumstances and retirement income needs would be so far 
into the future. In addition, he wasnt persuaded that it was suitable for Mr R, who was an 
inexperienced investor, to relinquish guaranteed income and instead take on the investment 
risks associated with the pension transfer to a SIPP for what he considered to be generic 
objectives. He thought suitable advice wouldve been to transfer to the BSPS2.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Burley Fox carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr R opted for the 
BSPS2 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended 
that Burley Fox pay Mr R £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation.
Mr R accepted our investigators assessment. But Burley Fox disagreed and stated that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. There followed an exchange of correspondence between our 
investigator and Burley Fox within which it provided substantial additional comments and 
evidence in response. Our investigator considered those additional comments and evidence 
but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint was placed into the queue awaiting allocation to an ombudsman for review. 
While waiting for an ombudsman to decide this complaint, Burley Fox carried out two loss 
assessments after 1 April 2023 using third party actuarial software: the first calculation 
showed that Mr R had suffered a financial loss of £728; and the second calculation showed 
that he hadnt suffered a loss. And so Burley Fox concluded no redress was payable and 
that it wasnt required to take any further action on this complaint.The CMC didnt accept the loss assessment calculations carried out by Burley Fox. It said 
that the calculations were based on an incorrect SIPP fund value and Mr R taking benefits at 
age 58. In its view, the loss assessment should be based on the correct fund value and Mr R 
taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. The CMC stated that it didnt 
accept Burley Foxs position that Mr R hasnt suffered a financial loss and requested that this 
complaint be decided by an ombudsman.
On 22 May 2023, our investigator contacted Burley Fox and the CMC to tell them that the 
FCA had developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress due under the 
BSPS consumer redress scheme, as set out in PS22/13. And that the FCA was encouraging 
businesses to use that calculator for non-scheme cases, such as this complaint made by                
Mr R. Our investigator stated that in my final decision I may direct Burley Fox to use the 
FCAs calculator and invited any comments that the parties wanted to make. The deadline 
for providing comments has passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by the CMC on behalf of Mr R and Burley Fox. Where the evidence is 
unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. 
In other words Ive looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, 
to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Before going any further, Id like to apologise to the parties for the length of time it has taken 
me to issue this final decision. To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under 
separate headings below.
FOSs approach to deciding complaints
Throughout its dealings with this Service, Burley Fox has repeatedly expressed its concerns 
about how we decide complaints. It says that we use letter templates which has led to 
different decisions containing identical content and cutting and pasting errors, as evidenced 
by decisions published on our website. It also says that our approach to assessing 
complaints about BSPS pension transfers is flawed. This is because, in its view, we dont 
follow FCA rules and guidance which has resulted in inconsistencies in approach by the FCA 
and this Service when assessing the suitability of pension transfer advice. Its concerned our 
investigator didnt assess this complaint on its own facts and that the recommended uphold 
outcome was already pre-determined. 
I want to address Burley Foxs concerns. Firstly, I can assure it that we consider each case 
on an individual basis based on the available evidence. While some cases may appear to 
have similar circumstances, they can have different facts involved and so wont necessarily 
have the same findings or outcome. In the case of BSPS pension transfers, many members 
were facing the same, uncertain situation following the announcement by Tata Steel in 
March 2016 which resulted in a significant number being advised to transfer away. The 
background and circumstances were very similar for lots of members  and so its inevitable 
that our decisions on complaints about BSPS pension transfers will include similar content 
when setting out the background, circumstances, the reasons for the recommendation to 
transfer and when referencing relevant FCA rules and guidance. But the similarity in content 
on different decisions doesnt mean the outcome of this complaint was pre-determined as 
Burley Fox believes to be the case.My role, as set out in DISP 3.6.1R, is to decide this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And when considering whats fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the 
Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Ive carefully considered all the available evidence afresh including Burley Foxs substantial 
comments in response to our investigators assessment. Id like to make clear that the 
purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by the CMC, 
on behalf of Mr R, and Burley Fox. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because 
I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Burley Fox was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its 
recommendation to Mr R. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the 
rules and consider the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in 
the FCAs Handbook.
Primarily, Burley Fox was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr R. The 
suitability rules and guidance that applied when Burley Fox provided its recommendation to 
Mr R were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that 
businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs 
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment 
objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements 
in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Rs case  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of Burley Foxs recommendation, its necessary for me to have 
due regard to the FCAs rules and guidance applicable at the time it advised him in late 
2017.
In responding to this complaint, Burley Fox stated that in June 2017 the FCA launched a 
consultation, CP17/16: Advising on Pension Transfers, which included a suggestion about 
removing the existing starting assumption guidance that a pension transfer will not be 
suitable and replacing it with a neutral starting position. Burley Fox stated that the FCA 
hadnt yet published feedback on that consultation by the time it advised Mr R and so, at the 
time of its advice, the FCAs starting assumption was, in effect, neutral. 
It appears Burley Fox referenced the FCAs consultation to indicate that the regulator had 
softened its approach to pension transfers at the time it advised Mr R. If this was its 
intention, then I dont see how this is relevant in deciding this complaint. This is because the 
FCA didnt remove or alter its starting assumption guidance, as confirmed in PS18/6: 
Advising on Pension Transfers  feedback on CP17/16 and final rules and guidance 
published in March 2018. In that Policy Statement the FCA stated, We have decided not to 
proceed with our proposal on the starting assumptionOur recent supervisory work has 
shown significant evidence of unsuitable advice being provided. This includes a review of 
advice given to British Steel Pension Scheme members. Given our concerns about the significant proportion of unsuitable advice, we do not consider it is appropriate to change this 
assumption at the present time.
So, its the case that during the period Burley Fox advised Mr R, the FCA always expected it 
to start by assuming a pension transfer wouldnt be suitable for him, as set out in                        
COBS 19.1.6G.
Mr Rs situation
The situation for Mr R wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr R. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr R had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Burley Fox.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr R to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr R, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued 
pension, a higher level of spouses pension (in the event Mr R was married by retirement) 
and the option to transfer to an alternative pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later 
date, if then deemed suitable.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr R still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Based on his age, circumstances and uncertainty about 
whether he could retire earlier than age 65 (which Ill come on to later), its my view that he 
wouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF because of the higher level 
of income it would pay at that age.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that Burley Fox shouldve started its advice 
process by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr R and to 
only recommend a transfer to the SIPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best 
interests, as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Mr Rs objectives
Based on the fact find document and suitability report, Mr R had several objectives regarding 
his safeguarded benefits, which can be distilled into four broad areas, summarised as 
follows:Control: He was concerned about the longevity of Tata Steel and that the value of 
his safeguarded benefits could be transferred to the PPF, leading to a reduction in 
the level of benefits he would receive when he retired. Due to these concerns, he 
wanted control over his pension benefits by transferring away;
 
Flexibility and early retirement: He wanted the flexibility to retire early from age            
58 and, at that point, receive annual retirement income of about £12,000 (net of 
income tax) in 2017 terms; 
Maximising benefits: He was concerned about inflation eroding the value of his 
safeguarded benefits and so wanted to transfer away to provide the potential for 
higher investment growth to maintain his benefits in real terms, with the aim of 
receiving a higher level of income and tax-free cash to clear any outstanding 
mortgage or buy a bigger house; and
Death benefits: He wanted to ensure that, in the event of his earlier death, any 
unused pension benefits be passed on to his family.
I recognise that Mr Rs safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on Burley Fox to provide expert, balanced information and 
advice, taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could 
then make an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client 
seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, Burley Fox was tasked with 
rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the 
available options. 
In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to 
facilitate the transaction.
Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. 
The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time Burley Fox advised         
Mr R. This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield 
applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return 
required on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the 
benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the 
alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age 
(or other selected age)  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative 
pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension payable by 
the DB pension scheme.
In response to our investigators assessment, Burley Fox commented that the TVAS is no 
longer relevant in the current market after it was replaced by the Appropriate Pension 
Transfer Analysis (APTA) rules in October 2018  my interpretation of this is that Burley 
Fox is seeking to downplay the importance of the critical yield figures applicable to Mr Rs 
case. Whilst undeniably useful in demonstrating the amount needed to replicate scheme 
benefits, since the APTA rules didnt apply at the time of the advice complained about, 
theyre of little relevance in deciding this complaint.Burley Fox calculated the following critical yield figures for Mr R (it calculated the figures for 
the BSPS2 using information available at the time):
Scheme At age 58 based on 
taking a reduced 
pension and maximum 
tax-free cash At age 58 
based on 
taking a full 
pensionAt age 65 based on 
taking a reduced 
pension and maximum 
tax-free cashAt age 65 
based on 
taking a full 
pension
BSPS2 5.2% 5.6% 5.3% 5.5%
PPF 5.8% 6.1% 4.9% 5.2%
The TVAS report is based on the SIPP having an ongoing annual charge of 2% of the SIPP 
fund value. However, the ongoing charge was a higher figure of 2.25%, as set out in the 
suitability report. In addition, the initial adviser charge of £1,500 doesnt appear to be 
accounted for in the TVAS report. If my understanding is correct, this means that the critical 
yield figures presented to Mr R were understated  this is because the invested transfer 
value would need to achieve a higher level of investment growth than stated to account for 
the initial adviser charge and higher ongoing charge than appears to have been assumed in 
the TVAS report.
Burley Foxs recommendation to Mr R was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in 
its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. 
In response to our investigators assessment, Burley Fox expressed concern about this 
Service referring to discount rates when deciding complaints about pension transfers 
because there wasnt any regulatory requirement for it to refer to these when it advised                 
Mr R. In its view, the discount rates dont have any relevance in assessing the suitability of 
its advice.
I agree with Burley Fox that businesses weren't required to refer to discount rates when 
giving pension transfer advice. But I consider that they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in 
this case. The discount rates we refer to are based on a typical investment spread across 
shares and bonds. Over the last thirty years, the bond component in the discount rates has 
increased to reflect the more cautious approach typically being taken when members 
transfer a large number of years of DB qualifying service. The closest discount rate which 
I'm able to refer to and published by this Service for the period before October 2017 is 4.6% 
based on Mr R taking benefits at his preferred retirement age of 58. Furthermore, the FCA's 
projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for 
the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr R's 
Moderate attitude to investment risk and the investment timeframe to age 58. Based on 
these factors, I think the critical yield figures at age 58 meant that there was limited scope to 
match the benefits payable by the BSPS2, let alone exceed them. There would usually be no 
point relinquishing safeguarded benefits in order to stand still, given the risk that the 
transfer might underperform. So, from an economic point of view, its questionable whether 
there was a reasonable prospect that Mr R would be financially better off by transferring on a 
like-for-like basis when compared to the scheme pension.
I acknowledge that Burley Fox stated the investment performance achieved by the SIPP 
since the transfer means that hes currently better off. In my view, subsequent investment performance of the SIPP is irrelevant in deciding this complaint. This is because Im required 
to make a decision regarding suitability based on the contemporaneous evidence. Put 
another way, investment performance wouldnt transform an unsuitable recommendation into 
a suitable one and vice versa.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Rs recorded 
objectives.
Control objective
Its clear that one of Mr Rs main motivations for considering a pension transfer was due to 
his concerns about the BSPS and the risk that this might fall into the PPF. I accept that such 
concerns were common among steelworkers at the time, and that it wouldve been a major 
motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can understand why Mr R wanted to 
have control over his benefits by transferring to a SIPP. 
That being said, Burley Foxs advice was provided in November 2017, after the Time to 
Choose pack had been issued to members. I think that the risk of the BSPS falling into the 
PPF had receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved and the 
BSPS2 was being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most situations 
that were higher than PPF benefits. But, in any event, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF 
was an outcome for Mr R to avoid at all costs. Ill explain why.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr R could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended SIPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of Burley Foxs recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained 
robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of the PPF 
to provide benefits in the future.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve removed any immediate concerns Mr R had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to an alternative 
scheme before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any 
immediate concern about options disappearing for Mr R or that there was an urgency to 
transfer to a SIPP at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr R was reliant on 
Burley Fox to provide a fair and balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in 
his best interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing with Mr R the 
features, risks and benefits of those alternative options and allaying his misapprehensions. 
If Mr R was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a SIPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on Burley Fox to provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this. In my view, the suitability 
report didnt deal with Mr Rs concerns about the PPF. So he likely thought that a transfer to 
the PPF was an outcome to avoid at all costs and probably reinforced his view a transfer to a 
SIPP was the best course of action.
In summary, I think that Burley Fox failed to adequately allay Mr Rs misapprehensions and 
that he therefore made the decision to transfer to the SIPP from an uninformed position 
regarding the BSPS2 and PPF options.
Flexibility and early retirement objective 
It was recorded that Mr R worked shift patterns and wanted to be able to retire from his role 
at age 58 and start drawing pension benefits at that time, possibly combined with seeking a 
different employed role within Tata Steel. He wanted to receive annual retirement income of 
about £12,000 (net of income tax) in 2017 terms on the basis that he didnt have a mortgage 
or any other liabilities at that time.
If benefits were taken early under BSPS2 then the income paid to Mr R would be reduced. 
But the reduction wasnt a penalty but applied to reflect the fact that the scheme would have 
to support the income for longer than anticipated, and to protect the interests of scheme 
members generally. 
I think its clear that Mr R was attracted to a flexible arrangement. Many people want to retire 
early. But this can only happen if they have the financial means to support themselves in 
retirement. Financial planning generally involves managing client expectations and a need 
for compromises. Mr R may have wanted to retire from age 58 but it was for Burley Fox, as 
the expert, to establish if this was feasible and to manage his expectations and help him 
modify his objectives to reflect the reality of his circumstances, if necessary. The further 
away from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish what their likely income 
need is. And in Mr Rs case, being aged 32 at the time of the advice, I think it wouldve been 
very difficult to predict with any degree of certainty what his expected expenditure during 
retirement would be  and therefore what realistic level of income he would need from age 
58 onwards to cover this and whether, in fact, he could retire early. 
While I dont doubt he wouldve liked the flexibility to retire at age 58, plans can change over 
such a long period of time. Notwithstanding this, Mr R was then aged 32 and couldnt access 
the money in the SIPP until age 55 at the earliest anyway. So I dont think there was any 
need to transfer at that time, especially given the critical yield figures attached to the 
transaction.
Im concerned about the way in which Mr Rs retirement income need was established. It 
seems that the target annual retirement income figure was a notional figure put forward by 
Mr R rather than being based on a proper analysis of his likely expected fixed outgoings and 
discretionary spending and the required income need to cover this. So Im not persuaded 
that Burley Fox took reasonable steps to establish Mr Rs realistic retirement income need 
before it advised him to transfer.
Despite this, in response to this complaint, Burley Fox said that Mr Rs early retirement and 
income need couldnt be met by either the BSPS or PPF and that a transfer to a SIPP was 
the only viable option. But this is contrary to its own analysis at the time. Its suitability report 
included three forecasts to show the level of projected income provided by the BSPS and 
SIPP at age 58 assuming that he took the maximum tax-free cash lump sum. The forecast 
for the BSPS at age 58 showed that the projected annual income of £4,234 was insufficient 
resulting in Mr R having a shortfall of around £7,000 each year between ages 59 and 68 
(when he expected to receive his State pension). The forecast for the SIPP showed that the fund would be depleted by age 66 and that Mr R wouldnt have any income until his State 
pension started at age 68. 
So it seems, that in isolation, nether the BSPS (or BSPS2) nor SIPP would enable Mr R to 
retire at age 58 and provide his target income during retirement  rather, the analysis 
showed that under both options Mr R would need to rely on additional income from other 
sources, such as that provided by his Tata Steel DC plan, or delay his retirement. With such 
a substantial time horizon until pension benefits could be accessed, it makes the case for a 
pension transfer  for the sake of achieving early retirement  more difficult to justify, 
particularly when Burley Foxs own analysis showed that the SIPP fund value would be 
depleted by age 66.
The forecasts showed that Mr Rs income need could be met by the BSPS if he took benefits 
at the normal retirement age of 65. I note that it was recorded that Mr R could possibly 
continue working beyond age 58 but in a different role within Tata Steel  so it seems to me 
that his objective was to retire early from his specific employed role rather than from 
employment altogether, so its possible he wouldnt need to start drawing pension benefits at 
age 58 in any event, further undermining the case for a pension transfer at that time.
Had Burley Fox advised Mr R to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a SIPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable, 
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income 
and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 32. I think this is a key point. This 
approach wouldve entailed significantly less risk for Mr R compared to the pension transfer 
at that time.
Mr Rs safeguarded benefits accounted for 11 years and 3 months qualifying service. They 
represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. I think its fair to 
say that when the time came to retire, he and his partner would be reliant on the value of 
these benefits to support their standard of living in retirement, particularly given that it was 
recorded that his partner didnt have any private or workplace pension arrangements in her 
name. Where there is such a need for a minimum level of income its difficult to justify 
relinquishing guaranteed income in exchange for flexible income that doesnt have any 
guarantees, particularly where the clients retirement income need wasnt adequately 
established. Transferring to the SIPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks 
associated with providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to                
Mr R for the period until he retired. It also led to Mr R concentrating all his private retirement 
provision on a DC basis which offered no guarantees but was based entirely on investment 
performance and charges. 
In summary, based on the information available in 2017, its my view that there was 
insufficient information and analysis to show that Mr R could retire early from age 58 and 
that transferring was clearly in his best interests.
That said, if it was a genuine requirement that Mr R have access to flexible benefits at age 
58, I make the following observation. He had been an active member of the Tata Steel DC 
pension scheme since April 2017. He and Tata Steel were, in total, contributing 16% of his 
gross annual salary of £33,000 into his DC pension plan every year, which was about £5,300 
in monetary terms. This would increase in line with increases in his salary. It was noted that 
Mr R intended to continue working in the same role for Tata Steel until at least age 58, and 
possibly beyond if he changed roles. So I think its fair to say that he would continue to be 
employed by Tata Steel for the foreseeable future. And in the event he left that employment, 
I think its likely that hed find alternative employment and, with the legal requirements of 
auto-enrolment, would join a different DC pension scheme and pay a minimum of 8% of his 
earnings into it. So over the 26-year period to age 58, its likely that Mr R would build up significant DC 
pension savings. Based on contributions alone, I estimate that about £137,000 would be 
invested in his DC pension plan over that timeframe if he continued to be employed by Tata 
Steel. This ignores likely increases in his salary (and therefore higher pension contributions) 
and investment growth. 
So if Mr R did have a need for flexible benefits from age 58, I think this couldve been met in 
the first instance by using his likely significant DC pension savings. This course of action 
wouldve enabled Mr R to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 to provide 
guaranteed, escalating income to meet his core income need in retirement from age 65. The 
estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable at age 65 was £6,741 for the BSPS and 
£6,652 for the PPF, assuming Mr R opted to take maximum tax-free cash. I think its likely 
that the revalued pension payable by the BSPS2 at age 65 likely fell somewhere in between 
these figures of £6,652 and £6,741. He could then use the tax-free cash from the BSPS2 to 
supplement his income until he started drawing his State pension at age 68  at which point 
his recorded need would be covered by a combination of BSPS2 and State pension income, 
both of which would be secure and escalate in payment. And if it turned out the DC pension 
savings didnt provide adequate income for the full seven-year period between age 58 and 
65, Mr R could take his benefits from BSPS2 at some point in between, meaning the early 
retirement factor wouldnt be as great as at age 58. 
The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested above may have enabled Mr R to achieve 
his flexibility objective but with significantly less risk. I havent seen any evidence that Burley 
Fox adequately considered, presented and discounted this alternative blended approach in 
meeting Mr Rs objectives. 
In conclusion, the contemporaneous evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why 
flexibility and early retirement objectives wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for 
Mr R to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at that time. I havent seen any evidence that 
shows the pension transfer to the SIPP led to Mr R gaining any clearly defined advantage 
compared to the alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. 
Maximising benefits objective
It was recorded that Mr R was concerned about inflation eroding the value of his 
safeguarded benefits. So he wanted to transfer away to provide the potential for higher 
investment growth with the aim of receiving a higher level of income and tax-free cash to 
clear any outstanding mortgage or buy a bigger house.
There was a cap on how much Mr Rs preserved benefits would be revalued in deferment 
and escalate in payment  that cap meant there was a risk the value of his pension would 
reduce in real terms in periods of high inflation. I understand that Mr R may have been 
concerned about future inflation and the impact this might have on the value of his scheme 
pension in real terms. But I dont think this was sufficient reason to relinquish secure income 
that provided a baseline level of guaranteed income in exchange for an income stream 
based entirely on future, unknown investment returns that offered no guarantee of providing 
a higher return in real terms. I think its important to bear in mind that Mr R was also building 
up additional pension provision in his Tata Steel DC plan that would provide for the sort of 
potential to outperform inflation such as the recommended SIPP. And his State pension 
would increase fully in line with inflation in any event. So Im not convinced it was necessary 
to relinquish his safeguarded benefits because there was a risk this element of his overall 
retirement provision might not keep pace with inflation.Burley Fox recommended a transfer to maximise the tax-free cash available from the SIPP 
(compared to the BSPS) to enable him to repay any outstanding mortgage or buy a bigger 
house. While the outstanding repayment mortgage loan was stated as £84,000, I cannot see 
that the remaining term was recorded. So its unclear to me what, if any, mortgage balance 
might be remaining at age 58 and whether it was necessary to transfer to SIPP at that time 
to try and maximise the tax-free cash available in 26 years time. I note that Mr R would, in 
any event, be entitled to tax-free cash under the Tata Steel DC pension scheme and BSPS2 
 which may have provided a lump sum sufficient to achieve Mr Rs objectives.
In conclusion, its my view Burley Fox didnt adequately demonstrate why a transfer to the 
SIPP to maximise income and tax-free cash was clearly in Mr Rs best interests, further 
undermining the case for a pension transfer at that time.
Death benefits objective
In responding to our investigators assessment, Burley Fox questioned why there was 
reference to Mr R having a death benefit related objective. It stated that our investigators 
focus on death benefits was flawed because its advice to transfer wasnt based upon 
changing the format, shape or value of death benefits in any way.
Im confused by Burley Foxs position on this. In its suitability report provided to Mr R it 
stated, under the section setting out Mr Rs objectives, the following:
In addition to the flexible income options you also like the fact that upon your death 
the remaining pension fund can pass to [Mr Rs partner] and your children: You 
advised that you would prefer for [Mr Rs partner] to have access to a lump sum, 
rather than a percentage of your pension, which would apply if you retained a 
scheme pension. You also like the ability to be able to pass on any money left in the 
pension upon [Mr Rs partner] death to the children.
Based on this, I think its fair to say that Mr R had a death benefit related objective attached 
to his safeguarded benefits and so I will proceed on this basis.
The recommended SIPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under age 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after age 75 the 
benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that 
immediately following the transfer to the SIPP and for the period until Mr R withdrew 
retirement benefits, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value.
But Mr R was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. Burley Fox estimated that Mr R had a life expectancy of age 88. There werent any 
immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a suitable course of action 
at that time.
Withdrawing money from the SIPP to meet his income and lump sum needs possibly from 
age 58 would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is 
more likely  could be much smaller than expected. 
If Mr R wanted to provide a lump sum to his family on his death, then life cover couldve 
achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling him to maintain 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that, according to the fact find document, he had 
disposable income available every month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay 
for life cover to achieve the death lump sum objective. I can see that Burley Fox obtained a 
quote for level term assurance to age 65 based on a sum assured of £121,310 to reflect the transfer value. The monthly cost was stated at £8.73. Burley Fox didnt express any view in 
the suitability report on whether Mr R should purchase the life cover or not  rather, it simply 
stated the detail and left it for Mr R to decide whether he wanted to purchase it.
It appears that Burley Fox assumed Mr R required life cover that matched the transfer value 
to the scheme normal retirement age of 65. I cannot see evidence that it adequately 
quantified Mr Rs death lump sum need taking into account any existing cover, over what 
term or how this might change over time. So cover of £121,310 may have been 
inappropriate. 
But, in any case, I understand that through his employment Mr R had death in service life 
cover based on a multiple of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £132,000 
would be paid in the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable 
regardless of whether his safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a SIPP. 
In addition, Mr Rs BSPS contributions of about £17,000 plus interest at 3% compound and 
the value of his Tata Steel DC pension plan as a lump sum be payable to his nominated 
beneficiaries. I note that Mr R wasnt married at that time, but, in the event his marital status 
changed (it was noted that he was engaged), his partner would receive a 50% spouses 
pension had he opted for the BSPS2.
So it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr R remained employed by 
Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £149,000 would be paid on his death. It appears that 
Mr R intended to remain employed by Tata Steel until he retired, so I think its fair to say that 
there wasnt any expectation the death in service benefits would disappear in the 
foreseeable future.
This leads me to conclude that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits in a different format bearing in mind the cover already in place while 
Mr R remained employed by Tata Steel. 
While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr R about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr R had no health 
issues at the time Burley Fox advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for his family. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him 
transferring to a SIPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit.
If properly informed, would Mr R have transferred anyway?
For the reasons explained above, Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was clearly in 
Mr Rs best interests. As a result, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of Burley Foxs advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr R, if placed 
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a SIPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr R, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on Burley Fox, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. 
Mr R might have chosen to transfer against advice on the basis of his concerns. However, 
bearing in mind that many members transferred to the BSPS2 even though such concerns 
were widely held, and bearing in mind also his lack of investment experience and Moderate 
risk profile, I dont think, on balance, that he wouldve insisted on transferring. Given Mr Rs reliance on Burley Fox, I think its likely he wouldve accepted a recommendation for the 
BSPS2 had it advised him to take that course of action.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Burley Fox to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr R wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. In response, Burley Fox stated that 
was an unfair comparison because, in its view, the BSPS2 didnt exist at the time of its 
advice and was merely a proposal and not guaranteed to go ahead. It also said that there 
isnt any evidence Mr R has suffered a financial loss and, in its view, payment of redress 
would be a windfall payment for him.
While some information on the benefits of BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view that 
by November 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large extent, 
as Ive explained above. So I think Burley Fox shouldve considered the BSPS2 as a viable 
option as indeed it did in its suitability report. So, in addition to the PPF, I think its fair to 
consider the BSPS2 as a potential comparator scheme for redress purposes.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. Given the timeframe, Im not convinced that it could be reasonably determined in 2017 
that the PPF was the likely better option for him. And so I think, given the lack of clarity 
surrounding Mr Rs ability to retire early, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for him 
based on what was known at the time and that at age 65 the BSPS2 would provide a higher 
level of benefits than the PPF.
In summary, as noted in my findings above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr R 
wouldve envisaged accessing any DC pension savings in the first instance to meet his 
income and lump sum needs before starting to take his safeguarded benefits from the 
BSPS2. And so, with the aim of placing him into the correct financial position, I think its fair 
and reasonable that the benefits offered by the BSPS2 should be used for comparison 
purposes. As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out. 
This should be on the basis Mr R takes benefits at the BSPS2 normal retirement age of 65.
Burley Fox must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Burley Fox should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress 
rather than using third party actuarial software. This is because in its  Dear CEO letter of             
19 May 2023, the FCA expressed its concerns about businesses using such software. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the CMC and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.For clarity, Mr R hasnt yet retired. So, compensation should be based on the BSPS2s 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance, and not at 
age 58, for the reasons Ive explained above.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of this final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Burley Fox should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr R accepts Burley Foxs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Burley Fox may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Burley Fox should pay Mr R £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Burley Fox Limited to 
pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would additionally 
require Burley Fox Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Burley Fox 
Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend thatBurley Fox Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R. 
If Mr R accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Burley Fox Limited. 
My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept this final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman