DRN-1672543
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss W took out the card and PPI in 2007 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss W says she cant remember how she took out the PPI. However, she says that it was 
added without her consent. Barclays has provided evidence that the PPI was taken out 
online at the same time as Miss W was applying for the credit card.
During the online process, Miss W would have come across a section about PPI. This 
contained Yes and No options to either request or decline the PPI. Barclays has provided 
an internal screenshot that recorded the information Miss W gave during the process. This 
shows that Miss W clicked Yes to agree to PPI.
Ive no doubt that Miss W has provided her genuine recollection of events. But the sale was 
a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded. Based on the 
available evidence, I think that Miss W would have known that she had a choice about taking 
out PPI. It seems to me that she decided to buy it, knowing she didnt have to, even if she no 
longer remembers doing so.
Barclays didnt advise Miss W to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it still needed to provide Miss W with enough information for her to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for her.
Miss Ws employer would have given her one months full pay if she was off sick. And she 
didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think that Miss W would 
quickly have found herself in financial difficulty if she was unable to work. Therefore, the 
policy could have provided a useful benefit at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss W wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W. But 
Barclays has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss W about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Miss W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Barclays has also offered Miss W £20 for distress and inconvenience, which she has 
accepted.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it hasnt already done so, it 
should pay this now, together with the £20 that it offered Miss W for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman