DRN-3242856
The complaint
Mr W complains about his insurer, Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). His complaint relates to 
the rejection of a claim under his home insurance policy for damage to his property caused 
by workmen. 
Reference to Aviva includes their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr W received a leaflet through his door offering building services, 
followed up by a person calling at his house. Mr W agreed to have the guttering replaced at 
the front and rear of his property. He paid some money in advance and work was carried out 
to replace the guttering at the front of his property. But he was then told more work would be 
needed at the rear of his property as the wood holding the guttering was rotten and new 
guttering couldnt be fixed to it. This would mean additional cost, but Mr W wasnt able to pay 
the additional cost, leaving him without guttering at the rear of his house.
Mr W contacted Aviva to explain what had happened and asked whether he could claim on 
his home insurance policy (for the guttering at the rear of his house to be replaced). Aviva 
initially declined his claim on the basis that they considered what had happened to be faulty 
workmanship. This was an exclusion under the terms and conditions of his policy, so 
wouldnt be covered. Mr W challenged this, saying what had happened constituted malicious 
damage to his property, and hed been the victim of a scam.
 
Aviva said that theyd review the matter further. They contacted Mr W to say they didnt 
consider what had happened would fall under malicious damage, so they werent able to 
accept a claim. They did say Mr W could contact their legal team under the legal assistance 
section of the policy to see what other options may be open to him given his situation.
Unhappy at their position, Mr W complained to Aviva. In their final response they confirmed 
their decision that what had happened wasnt covered under the policy. However, Aviva did 
accept that Mr W might have understood (from the way Aviva told him theyd review the 
matter further) that he would be covered. In recognition of raising expectations that werent 
then met, Aviva offered Mr W £40 in compensation.
Mr W complained to this service. He said his property had been left without guttering and he 
didnt have the money to replace it. Given the conflicting messages hed had from Aviva he 
wanted them to apologise for the poor service hed received and for them to offer him an ex 
gratia payment of £640.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that the policy terms and 
conditions supported Avivas decision to decline the claim. What Mr W had experienced was 
a dispute over services and failure to provide those services (to replace Mr Ws gutters). This 
wasnt an insurable event under the policy. The investigator also thought Aviva indicating to 
Mr W that they might be able to exercise discretion (but ultimately decided not to) wasnt 
something that Mr W could fairly and reasonably be expected to be compensated for.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. Specifically, Mr W said that he was claiming under the section of the policy 
that covered damage by malicious people. Given his understanding of the definition of 
malicious, he thought what had happened fell under this section. He also thought he had 
been subject to misrepresentation and fraud, so there wasnt a valid contract for the work 
that had been led to believe would be carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr W.
Firstly, I would want to say to Mr W that I have sympathy for what has happened to him and 
the position he finds himself in. From what hes told us, I can appreciate that it would have 
been very distressing, and it appears that hes been taken advantage of by people 
purporting to offer to replace his guttering. This sounds like a case that should be drawn to 
the attention of the relevant authorities.
There are two main aspects to Mr Ws complaint. The first is whether what happened would 
be covered under the terms of his policy. The second is whether Aviva unfairly led him to 
believe that what happened was going to be covered under the policy.
On the first aspect, Mr W says that what happened constitutes malicious damage and as 
such is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. Avivas view is that it isnt. In 
considering this issue, Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions of the policy. Under 
the buildings section of the policy, the Whats covered? heading states the following:
Our standard Buildings cover will protect you for loss or damage to the buildings 
caused by any of the following things:
3. Malicious people, vandals, riot, civil unrest, strikes, or labour or political 
disturbances.
Mr W says that the behaviour of the workmen towards him was malicious, and he has cited a 
dictionary definition of the terms malicious as: having or showing a desire to cause harm to 
someone. I can understand why Mr W feels that hes been the victim of a scam and that the 
actions of the workmen were malicious.
 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws view in the context of what the policy says. While the 
policy doesnt define the term malicious people (or malicious). I dont think what happened 
to Mr W falls under the above condition of the policy. While Mr W feels he has been subject 
to a scam, from the description of what happened he thought he was having work done to 
replace guttering. And it seems that this is what happened, at least as far as the front of his 
house was concerned. While the existing guttering was removed from the rear of the house, 
the expectation was that it would have then been replaced (as it had been at the front). The 
fact that it wasnt doesnt, in my view, mean that its removal constitutes malicious damage. 
So Ive concluded that it was reasonable for Aviva not to accept a claim from Mr W for 
replacing the [missing] guttering. As Ive concluded they acted reasonably, then I dont think 
they need to do anything further.
Having reached this conclusion for these reasons, then I dont think the point about whether 
or not there was a valid contract affects that conclusion.
 The second aspect of Mr Ws complaint is that he was given conflicting messages by Aviva 
about whether what had happened constituted criminal damage (and whether it was covered 
under the policy). Aviva acknowledge in their final response that Mr W might have 
understood (from the way they told him theyd review the matter) that he would be covered. 
Having looked at the key message from Aviva to Mr W I agree that it could be understood to 
indicate that Aviva would be accepting a claim (the message refers to [having] a second 
opinion and hopefully we are able to help. It goes on to say that Someone from the claims 
department will be giving you a call ASAP.
 
While it could be interpreted to mean Aviva would be accepting a claim, the wording isnt 
definitive (hopefully) and points to a further discussion. So, I dont think it clearly indicates 
Aviva would be accepting a claim. Ive noted that Aviva offered £40 in compensation for loss 
of expectation on the part of Mr W. I think in the circumstances thats fair.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that Aviva acted reasonably in their decision 
not to accept Mr Ws claim (as malicious damage). Ive also concluded that while there was 
some raising of expectations that they would, I think their offer of £40 compensation is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman