DRN-2607146
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they 
were mis-sold a Guaranteed Stock Market Bond (GSMB) by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
In 1997 Mr and Mrs D were advised to invest £5,000 in the GSMB. It was for a five-year term 
and provided a return based on the performance of the FTSE 100 Index. 95% of the sum 
committed was invested (so in this case £4750) and the return calculated as 100% of any 
increase in the index over the term, with averaging in the final year. In the event the index 
didnt rise, or fell, the original amount committed was guaranteed to be returned, provided 
the bond was held for the full term.
At the time of the advice Mr and Mrs D were in their 50s. Mr D was retired, and Mrs D was 
still working. Their total income from Mr Ds pension, Mrs Ds employment and from renting 
out an inherited property gave them a disposable monthly income of just under £1,500. They 
had a £30,000 mortgage covered by two endowment policies, and around £48,000 in 
savings and with profits bonds. They were categorised as cautious investors, seeking to 
achieve potential capital growth without risk to their capital. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It felt the recommendation of the GSMB had been 
generally suitable. It said there appeared to have been no issue regarding affordability as the 
bond was held for the full term and it was satisfied Mr and Mrs D wouldve understood the 
risks involved  that the bond could make no return. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Lloyds. He said, in brief: 
The GSMB was consistent with Mr and Mrs Ds investment objective. 
They wouldve benefitted from any returns being tax-free for basic rate tax payers.
They were clearly warned about the risks involved. 
They had previous investment experience and held their capital in several different 
deposit accounts, indicating that they had awareness of different ways in which they 
could hold their capital. 
The investment in the GSMB represented a relatively small proportion of their capital, 
around 15%.
He noted the CMCs point regarding the potential returns possible from fixed-rate 
bonds at the time, but felt the recommendation was nevertheless generally suitable  
in line with their objectives, at a level of risk they were willing and able to take, and 
affordable.
Mr and Mrs Ds CMC didnt accept the investigators view. This was primarily because it felt 
that returns available from fixed-rate bonds were such at the time that it was very unlikely Mr 
and Mrs D wouldve been willing to gamble on the performance of the FTSE 100 Index  
particularly as the highest potential return shown on the illustration for the GSMB  8% - was 
around what could be achieved risk-free with fixed-rate bonds. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so as no agreement could be 
reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D were in a position to take a degree of risk with the £5,000 
they committed to the GSMB. Albeit Mr D was retired, they had a relatively healthy income 
and the investment left them with sufficient on deposit. They had some experience of 
investing with a low level of risk by way of their with profits bonds and there doesnt appear 
to have been any issue with affordability. 
The key point their CMC has made in support of the argument that the recommendation was 
unsuitable is that they couldve achieved healthy, risk-free returns using fixed-rate bonds, 
which were paying annual rates of around 7% at the time. 
This argument appears to be based upon the rates used in the illustration provided to Mr and 
Mrs D, which showed what the GSMB might return if the FTSE rose annually by 4% and 8% 
over the term. Clearly these rates didnt compare particularly favourably with the alternative 
of fixed-rate bonds. The CMC feels that Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have been prepared to 
gamble on the FTSE rising far in excess of the Financial Services Authoritys (as the 
regulator was called at that time) highest growth illustration  that being what the regulator 
considered to a reasonable and likely level of return. 
But I think its important to note that at the time, in 1997, the rates used in the illustration 
could actually have been regarded as quite modest estimations. In the five years prior to 
1997 the FTSE had in several years achieved growth of over 20%, meaning that the average 
annual growth for the previous five years was around 14%. 
I point this background out with some caution, as I dont intend it to suggest that it wouldve 
been appropriate for the GSMB to have been sold with an undue emphasis on this record. It 
was important that the risk of the GSMB possibly returning much less than this, or maybe 
nothing at all was clearly explained, as it was in the illustration. But I nevertheless think it is 
importance context and shows that the potential for achieving a return greater that available 
from fixed-rate bonds, and one that wouldve been tax-free for Mr and Mrs D, wasnt quite as 
unlikely as the CMC has suggested. 
The GSMB was a relatively straightforward version of this type of product, with the return 
simply calculated as 100% of any FTSE rise. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs D wouldve had 
any difficulty in understanding how it worked. They were already invested in with profits 
bonds, so its reasonable to conclude that that theyd have some knowledge of how cautious, 
market-linked investments worked. And the investment represented a relatively small 
proportion of their capital.
In all the circumstances, I think, on balance, that this was a suitable way for Mr and Mrs D to 
potentially benefit from the higher levels of return that could be achieved through investing in 
the stock market, but without any risk to their capital.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman