DRN-2631140
The complaint
Mr I and Miss P complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim made on their 
motor insurance policy. They want £1,000 compensation for the travel costs they incurred. 
Miss P is a named driver on Mr Is policy. 
What happened
Mr Is car was damaged in an accident and he made a claim on his policy. But he was 
unhappy that Aviva didnt tell him he could use a garage of his choice rather than its 
approved repairer. He was unhappy that the repairs were delayed, and he had to use public 
transport. He wants Aviva to reimburse these costs. Aviva agreed it should have told Mr I 
that he could use his own garage. It paid him £100 compensation for this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Avivas 
repairer had cancelled the repair of Mr Is car because of the pandemic and he couldnt say 
this was unreasonable. He thought Mr Is car was still mobile and he could have driven it to 
avoid travel costs. He thought Avivas compensation for not telling Mr I that he could use his 
own garage was fair and reasonable. And he saw that Aviva had offered Mr I this option in 
the end. 
Mr I replied that he was uncomfortable driving his car before the repairs as it hadnt been 
inspected for structural damage. He said this was later found. And he thought Aviva should 
have offered him a replacement car until his car was repaired. He said he was left without a 
car for almost four months and out of pocket.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I reported the claim and he was directed to Avivas approved repairer. He then took his 
car in for an inspection so that parts could be ordered. Aviva has agreed that its agent 
should have told Mr I that the level of cover provided by his policy included using his own 
garage. So Ive looked at the impact this error had on Mr I. 
Mr I said he was unable to drive his car as it hadnt been assessed as roadworthy. Were not 
engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is 
a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our 
role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all 
the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
Ive seen the engineers report completed two days after the accident. Mr I said this was a 
visual inspection and the engineer said he wouldnt look for structural damage until the car 
was brought in for repairs. The report notes that the impact had been light, damage was to 
the rear bumper and the car was mobile.
I think it isnt unusual for garages to do full assessments at the stage when repairs are 
undertaken if this involves stripping down the car. Mr I had driven to and from the garage. 
And the engineering evidence doesnt say the car was unroadworthy. So I cant say that the 
garage made an error here or that Aviva should have then provided Mr I with a courtesy car. 
Mr I gave a preferred date for his repairs, but this was cancelled due to lack of capacity at 
the garage. A further date for the repairs was arranged, but this was cancelled due to the 
pandemic. Ive seen that the garage was then only dealing with immobile vehicles and those 
belonging to key workers. I cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable as I think this was 
outside Avivas and the garages control. 
So it was four months before Mr I had his car repaired at his preferred garage. Mr I thought 
that if Aviva had told him he could use his own choice of garage, then his car would have 
been repaired before the closures due to the pandemic. But I dont have evidence that his 
preferred garage wouldnt have had the same problems as the approved repairer. So I cant 
say that Mr I would have had his car repaired any quicker if hed been given this option. 
Mr I said hed lost out because of Avivas initial error. But I think his car was mobile. I think it 
was his choice to use alternative transport. And I cant reasonably hold Aviva responsible for 
this cost. So I dont require Aviva to pay Mr I £1,000 compensation. 
Aviva offered Mr I £100 compensation for not telling him in the initial call that he could use 
his own garage. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with the level Id award in 
similar situations considering the impact on Mr I. I dont require Aviva to increase this. Mr I 
rejected this offer and I cant see that hes received this £100. If he hasnt, and wishes to 
accept it, I expect Aviva to still honour this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman