DRN-4421924
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) couldnt find any 
record of his credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy, which resulted in delay 
when he tried to make a claim in November 2022 for a period of unemployment that began 
in September 2020.
Mr H has been represented by his brother in making this complaint. However, for the 
purposes of this decision, I will just be referring to Mr H.
What happened
Mr H has said that, as a result of his anxiety and depression, he wasnt able to deal with 
looking at his credit card statements. In October 2022 he received an annual review in 
relation to PPI and that was when he realised he was still being charged for PPI and 
therefore had a policy that he could make a claim on.
The policy is an older type policy that is no longer sold. This seemed to cause some difficulty 
for Barclays who were unable to locate any record of it initially. 
Mr H says that, despite chasing both Barclays and the insurer, he did not get a satisfactory 
response and was forced to make a formal complaint at the end of November 2022 to try 
and get the matter addressed. However, at the time of bringing his complaint to us in 
January 2023, he had not received a response to his complaint. 
Barclays provided its complaint response on 2 February 2023. It accepted that Mr H had 
received poor service and offered him £50 compensation, which he declined. It also said that 
it had been assured by the insurer that they would handle matters but that the insurer hadnt 
followed through on that. However, the insurer was now setting up the policy and would be in 
touch with him about the unemployment claim.
Following liaison with this service, Barclays said it would be willing to make a compensation 
offer in line with the standard redress that would apply to a PPI mis-sale complaint. So, it 
was offering a full refund of premiums paid over the life of the policy, plus a refund of fees 
and charges applied to the account as a result of the PPI, plus 8% simple interest. At the 
time of this offer, in May 2023, that was calculated as being £2,134.38. Our investigator 
thought that was a fair way of settling the complaint. However, it was understood at that time 
that the insurer was still assessing the claim and the outcome was still pending. As such, our 
investigator said that, depending on the outcome of the claim, it would be up to Barclays to 
decide how that would affect its offer. Thats because it would be normal practice to offset 
any claim pay-out against any mis-sale redress.
It subsequently came to light that the insurer had in fact settled the claim on 18 April 2023 
and had paid the amount of £2,738.28 to Mr Hs credit card account. Given this, Barclays 
then confirmed that it has deducted the claim amount from its compensation offer. As the 
claim pay out was the greater amount, Mr H is not entitled to any additional payment.
Mr H says its not a mis-sale complaint. He has set out his complaint under the headings of 
data breach, consumer detriment and vulnerability. 
Our investigator considered these issues and recommended that Barclays should pay Mr H 
£500 for trouble and upset. Mr H has rejected this and has calculated the compensation he 
should receive as £29,403.48, made up of £19,403.48 for financial losses and £10,000 for 
distress and inconvenience.
I wrote a provisional decision in September 2023, clarifying the confusion that had arisen 
between the offer made by Barclays in relation to this complaint and the insurers payment of 
the unemployment claim. I also said that I agreed with our investigator that £500 
compensation was a fair and reasonable way to settle the complaint.
Mr H provided some comments in response to my provisional decision that I will address 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision, Mr H says it was on 7 November 2022 that he rang 
Barclays to find out how to make a claim.  If things had happened as they should, Barclays 
would have located his policy on that date and explained what he needed to do. The insurer 
could then have started the process by sending him a claim form. Based on the available 
evidence, the insurer didnt get the ball rolling until 14 February 2023, when they called Mr 
H. So thats a delay of just over three months. 
Mr H was originally complaining that the delay stemmed from when he lost his job in 
September 2020 and that the claim had still not been paid. But in my provisional decision I 
explained that he could have made his claim then and that I couldnt hold Barclays 
responsible for him taking until November 2022 to enquire about making a claim. Mr H now 
accepts that the insurer has paid the claim and that Barclays was responsible for a delay of 
around three months.
Mr H also now understands Barclays offer (which is a refund of the full PPI premiums since 
the policy was taken out, plus interest, that he was asking for) and accepts that the claim 
amount has been deducted from this offer, meaning that no further amount is due to him.
So, it is just the amount for distress and inconvenience (including financial loss) that Mr H 
remains dissatisfied with.
Despite acknowledging the reduced period of delay that Barclays is responsible for, Mr Hs 
request for compensation remains at £29,403.48. In response to my provisional decision, he 
has re-emphasised the detrimental impact that Barclays actions had on him.
Mr H says he has incurred additional financial losses as a result of the delay in paying the 
claim. Id explained in my provisional decision that I thought Mr Hs financial difficulties were 
mainly the result of him being made redundant in September 2020 and therefore happened 
before he made the claim in November 2022. Mr H acknowledges that some of his financial 
set-backs pre-date the claim. But he still says that without the three-month delay, his overall 
financial state would have been less strained.
I accept this is the case, but I think the difference would have been marginal. The claim 
amount was paid to his credit card account to reduce the balance, rather than being given as 
a lump sum to him. As Id said in my provisional decision, whilst Mr Hs financial situation 
might have been eased slightly if the claim payment had been made earlier  because his monthly credit card repayments would have reduced  he still wouldnt have had the funds 
for the sorts of emergency purchases that his family gave him money for. So, Im not 
persuaded that Mr Hs need for family assistance stems from any fault of Barclays or that his 
financial difficulties would have been alleviated in any significant way.
During the time that Barclays had trouble identifying the policy, Mr H was concerned that 
hed been paying for cover that didnt exist and the implications that had for his 
unemployment claim. He had to chase Barclays to try and find out what was going on, 
spending hours on the phone. He was also pushed back and forth between Barclays, the 
insurer and another third party, having been told that the policy had been sold on to another 
company. Barclays and the insurer told Mr H contradictory things at times. Mr H was also 
promised calls back which didnt happen. It also took Barclays longer to deal with the 
complaint than its standard response time. 
Im sorry if the wording of my provisional decision didnt fully convey how much I had thought 
about the emotional and mental impact suffered by Mr H as a result of this. I can assure him 
that the circumstances of his long-term anxiety and depression were a major part of my 
consideration of the complaint. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr Hs situation and do 
not underestimate the toll that events have taken on him.
I do understand why Mr H feels he should receive a substantial sum for the distress he has 
suffered. However, as an informal dispute resolution service which acts as an alternative to 
the courts, the awards made by this service are more modest than he might expect. For 
example, in another similar case, I might say that Barclays initial offer of £50 would be 
sufficient to compensation somebody for a three- month delay. The particular circumstances 
of Mr Hs case, in particular, the distress caused to him by events, combined with his pre-
existing mental health problems, means that I have concluded he should receive the much 
higher amount of £500.
Ive re-considered the complaint in light of Mr Hs response to my provisional decision. But, 
on balance, I havent been persuaded to change that decision. I consider that £500 is 
appropriate compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) to pay Mr H £500 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman