DRN-2074887
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down her travel insurance claim.
 
What happened
Mrs J held an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. In 2017, she advised 
Aviva that she had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and this was accepted 
for cover.
In October 2019, Mrs J booked a trip to South Africa that was due to start in January 2020. 
However, in November 2019, Mrs J was admitted to hospital as she was experiencing 
breathing problems related to her COPD. She was advised by her doctor not to travel, and 
so cancelled the holiday and submitted a claim to Aviva.
Aviva turned down the claim because it said Mrs J hadnt made it aware thered been 
changes to her health before she booked her trip (she was prescribed new medication). 
Aviva said if it had known about those changes, it wouldve excluded her condition of COPD, 
and therefore the claim wasnt payable. Unhappy with this, Mrs J brought a complaint to this 
service. She said she had no idea she needed to tell Aviva thered been changes to her 
medication before booking the trip.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Although Mrs J was taking new 
medication for her condition, he didnt think the policy was clear that Aviva wanted to be told 
about this. He therefore recommended that the claim be paid, plus interest.  
Aviva didnt accept our investigators recommendations, so the matter has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J and Aviva have provided this service with two different policy documents. I understand 
the policy provided by Mrs J is for the latest policy year, and so the policy terms that were in 
place at the time of the claim are those provided by Aviva. The below quotes are therefore 
taken from the policy document provided by Aviva.
The policy says:
Do you need to know about any medical conditions?
Yes. If you, or any insured person have a medical condition(s), you should check to see if 
the conditions(s) is covered automatically on the Accepted conditions list. If the condition is 
not listed and if in the 12 months prior to booking a trip you have been prescribed 
medication, have received or are awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations, been 
referred to a specialist or admitted to hospital, then you should call us before booking trips. 
Undiagnosed symptoms are not covered. Please see the Your Health section with the 
Accepted conditions list on page 21 for full details of when and what you must declare. 
General conditions

3. You must have taken reasonable care to provide complete and accurate answers to the 
questions asked when you opened [the policy] and before you book a trip or travel make 
sure that you have told us about any medical conditions as details in the Your Health section 
on page 20.
Please note that if you fail to tell the insurer about any medical conditions this could 
invalidate this policy and could mean that part or all of a claim may not be paid. It is therefore 
very important that you read the Your Health section in this booklet. 

If you fail to notify us of any changes to your health before a trip (as required in the Your 
Health section of this booklet) this could result in a previously accepted medical condition 
being excluded.
The policy says under a separate section:
Information and changes we need to know about
You must take reasonable care to provide complete and accurate answers to the questions 
we ask you. For example before you book a trip or travel, you may need to tell the Medical 
Risk Assessment Helpline about medical conditions not shown on the Accepted conditions 
list. After your [policy] is opened, you must make sure that you tell the Medical Risk 
Assessment Helpline if there are any changes in health. Please see the Your Health section 
of this policy for full details of what you need to declare. 
Under the Your health section of the policy, it defines what is meant by a medical condition 
(which includes an illness where the consumer has been prescribed medication in the 12 
months before booking a trip) and then says:
What do you need to tell us?
If an insured person has any medical condition other than those shown as an Accepted 
condition on page 21 and you wish us to consider covering the medical condition(s), you 
need to call us
Please note  medical conditions are not covered by this policy unless:
You only have Accepted conditions shown on page 21; or
We have been told about them and have confirmed in writing that they have been 
accepted.
I agree with our investigator that the policy doesnt make it clear that Aviva wanted to know 
about any changes to health for a condition that had already been disclosed and accepted 
for cover. Whilst I appreciate the policy alludes to this, it says that full details are under the 
Your Health section of the policy. Although this section of the policy defines what is meant 
by a medical condition, crucially, it doesnt say anything about what would be considered a 
change of health, or that Aviva wanted to be told about a change of health for an accepted 
condition.
Consequently, as it wasnt made clear to Mrs J that being prescribed new medication would 
be considered a change in health and that she should tell Aviva about this, I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay the claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay the 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs J a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman