DRN-4399453
The complaint
Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R are complaining about the way Brooklin Claims Consultants Ltd 
(BCC) handled a claim, as a loss assessor, that they made on their buildings insurance 
policy.
Mr B has led in the handling of the claim and complaint. For ease of reference Ill refer to him 
mainly in my decision.
 
What happened
In February 2020 Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs Rs property, and an annex they rented out as a 
holiday let, were damaged in a flood. So they claimed for the damage on their buildings 
insurance policy. Mr B says BCC contacted him to offer to assist with handling the claim on 
his behalf. Mr B entered into a contract with BCC for it to act as a loss assessor on the claim. 
Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R moved into alternative accommodation in March 2020.
Due to the impact of Covid-19, drying work didnt start until July 2020. Following this, BCC 
engaged with the insurer to look to get the repair work started. BCC then instructed a 
building company  who I shall refer to as K  to carry out the works. K, in turn then 
subcontracted the work to another company  who I shall refer to as BJ.
Repair works started in March 2021. Mr B says the work was due to be completed by 
June 2021, which is when his contract to stay in the alternative accommodation was due to 
end. As a result of this, he says hed accepted a number of holiday lets to start from 
July 2021.
However, the work wasnt completed in June 2021. As Mr and Mrs B had to vacate the 
alternative accommodation, they agreed to move into the annex. But they said the property 
didnt have any washing facilities available. They also said there were a number of issues 
with the works that had been carried out. After this, Mr B says the relationship broke down 
between them and BJ for the following reasons:
He says the works were supposed to be completed by June 2021, but only a small part 
of the works were carried out and there were numerous snagging issues with the areas 
they did work.
BJ were double charging them VAT  meaning they could have paid over £600 more 
than  they should have.
BJ left the property on July 2021 and didnt return, despite numerous promises they 
would do so.
Mr B says BJ damaged appliances  such as the flu  while carrying out the works.
The proprietor of BJ left a defamatory post on social media about Mr B.
Following this, Mr B contacted BCC and said they were reluctant to allow BJ to return to 
complete the works. He says BCC said he had no option but to instruct his own contractor 
and it would cash settle the claim. He says he wanted BCC to instruct a new contractor to 
carry out the works, but it wouldnt do so. So he said he was essentially forced into 
instructing someone himself to complete the works.
Mr B later referred his complaint to this Service to review. I issued a provisional decision 
upholding this complaint and I said the following:
What can we look at?
In the first instance, I need to set out the extent of this Services remit as there are a number 
of issues that Mr B has raised that we cant comment on.
Mr Bs complaint essentially relates to the quality of work that BJ has done to resolve the 
damage arising from the flood. But I also need to take into account that Mr B decided to take 
the opportunity to redesign parts of the house and also to add additional flood prevention 
measures. This work wasnt covered under the terms of the insurance policy, so Mr B 
agreed with BJ that he would cover the costs of any work that it did that wasnt covered by 
the insurance policy. So, in doing so, Mr B essentially had two contracts with BJ:
1. To repair any loss or damage arising from the flood that was covered under the terms of 
the insurance policy; and
2. To carry out any additional work Mr B asked BJ to perform.
This Service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about BJ itself  we can only 
consider the actions of BCC in exercising its contractual responsibilities to assist in the 
administration of the claim. However, given BCC essentially instructed BJ  through its 
actions in instructing K to carry out the work  BCC can be held responsible for anything BJ 
did or didnt do in carrying out repairs required under the insurance policy. However, I cant 
consider anything BJ did regarding the private works BJ agreed to complete for Mr B as 
these were carried out separate to the contract of insurance.
Further to this, I can also only consider BCCs (and in turn BJs) actions up to the point BCC 
responded to Mr Bs complaint and he referred his complaint to this Service. I cant see that 
BCC ever formally responded to Mr Bs complaint, but he referred his complaint to this 
Service on 23 February 2022. So, in this decision, Im unable to consider anything thats 
happened after this date. If Mr B wishes to complain about anything thats happened since 
then, hell need to raise a new complaint with BCC.
So, in summary, in this decision Im considering BCCs actions in the way it administered 
Mr Bs claim up to 23 February 2022. In doing so, Im also considering whether it should 
compensate Mr B for anything BJ did regarding its responsibilities to carry out any required 
insurance related work.
Should BCC compensate Mr B?
Ive carefully and thoroughly considered Mr Bs complaint and it seems to me that hes 
complaining about whats happened after the repairs started. So, while I have thought about 
what happened before this date, I havent commented on this in this decision.
I dont think its disputed that the relationship broke down between Mr B and BJ. Further to 
this, I also think its accepted that Mr B had some fair and valid concerns about BJs actions. 
Its clear that there were some issues with the work BJ carried out  BCC has accepted that. 
Im also satisfied that BCC has agreed to pay to put these issues right. But I also think that 
the breakdown in the relationship was primarily down to issues relating to the private works. 
Ive read Mr Bs complaint submission and hes set out that he was primarily concerned, at 
first, about the amount BJ was charging  in particular regarding VAT and I understand also 
regarding the labour rates that BJ was charging. And, as I said above, I cant hold BCC 
responsible for that. However, I do agree that there were some avoidable issues arising from the insurance related works.
I havent seen anything to show that concerns were raised about BJs actions prior to 
June 2021 when Mr and Mrs B moved back into the property. I recognise that the work 
wasnt completed by this point, but I also havent seen anything to show that BCC said all 
the work would be done by then. I also find that its unlikely it would have said that the work 
would be completed within three months given the extent of work that was required.
I think its likely BCC would have explained Mr and Mrs B could move back in by June 2021, 
which they did. Im satisfied BCC would have known when Mr and Mrs Bs tenancy on the 
alternative accommodation came to an end. And I think it should have ensured their property 
was habitable on their return. But Im persuaded by what Mr and Mrs B have told us that 
they didnt have access to washing facilities when they moved back in and I dont think that 
was fair. BCC should have ensured that these basic facilities were available.
Ive also considered Mr Bs comment that BCC gave them no option but to source their own 
contractor. I dont think BCC would have said it couldnt source another contractor. But I do 
think its most likely that it said it couldnt give any guarantee when it could get someone else 
to complete the work. However, Im conscious that this was a very challenging time in the 
building trade due to the impact of Covid-19. And Im persuaded that this impact was likely to 
be the primary reason that caused the unavailability of BCCs appointed contractors to 
complete the works, which was out of BCCs control. So, I dont think it was unreasonable at 
this point for BCC to give Mr B the option to instruct his own contractor  and in fact I would 
have expected it to do so.
Outstanding works
I note Mr B has set out that there were still a lot of the insurance work still outstanding after 
BJ stopped working. BCC agreed to pay Mr Bs contractor to resolve these issues subject to 
the costs being reasonable. So Im satisfied it took steps to put this right. As I set out above, 
Im unable to consider in this decision anything thats happened after 23 February 2022.
BCC is also not responsible for the actions of Mr Bs contractor. So I cant comment on any 
works that were carried out by him. I note BCC has asked for guidance for how to resolve 
some outstanding issues at the end of the claim. But its not for this Service to give advice to 
either party, nor are we here to assist with the handling of the claim. And, as I said Im 
unable to consider in this decision anything thats happened after 23 February 2022.
However, Mr B says some issues that BJ carried out havent been resolved  in particular he 
says he hasnt received electrical and window certificates. BCC has set out that this is 
because Mr B hasnt paid all the outstanding invoices. In particular its said that only 65% of 
the electrical works has been paid for. BCC says it needs BJ to provide the certificate and it 
wont do until its received full settlement. And it seems this matter has ended in a stalemate.
However, it seems to me that this largely remains a private dispute between Mr B and BJ. 
Im satisfied from what BCC has shown us, its settled the claim by paying the amount 
payable on the scope of works. So I think any shortfall is likely to be down to Mr Bs dispute 
with BJ regarding private works. That said, BCC entered into a contract with Mr B to assist 
with the administration of the claim. And I also think these certificates werent provided due 
to BJ stopping working in July 2021. Had it continued to complete the insurance related 
works, I think the certificates would have been issued.
Ultimately, BCC was required to arrange to complete all works as required under the terms 
of the insurance policy. Given everything thats happened, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to insist that BJ should return to the property to issue any certificates. So, I think BCC should arrange for an independent company to provide any outstanding certificates as 
required to confirm the safe completion of the window and electrical works. It would then be 
for any dispute regarding outstanding money to be resolved privately between Mr B and the 
individual contractors.
Summary
Its clear that Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R have suffered a significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience from the claim. And I naturally sympathise with the situation theyve found 
themselves in. But I need to distinguish between the following:
1. whats been suffered as a natural consequence of the significant event that took place 
which resulted in them having to make a claim in the first place and the inevitable impact 
Covid-19 was going to have on the claim journey;
2. the avoidable issues relating the way the insurance related repairs were carried out; and
3. the issues relating to the private works Mr B wanted completed.
BCC is not required to compensate Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R for the issues relating to (1) and 
(3). As I said above, I do think there were some issues regarding (2) which I think BCC 
should compensate them for. But I think the impact was minor in comparison to the other 
issues. And I think BCCs offer to pay £750 in compensation is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances.
Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R responded to my provisional decision and, in summary, they raised 
the following points:
They said BCC told them as part of the promotional material that it doesnt use sub-
contractors. And they feel that the fact the work was subcontracted to BJ is one of the 
primary causes of what went wrong.
They disagreed that the breakdown of the relationship was primarily down to the private 
works. They said it was due to BJ not completing the insurance work on the studio annex 
by the date promised. They set out that the annexe is an important source of income for 
them and BJ were repeatedly reminded of the timescales involved. They highlighted 
there were times of inactivity and poor claims management that caused these delays.
They said that BCC hasnt covered all outstanding snagging costs regarding the 
insurance related works. And they set out some invoices theyve sent which havent 
been settled.
They said they also hadnt received the gas safety certificate for the studio annex. And 
they said regarding any outstanding invoices, it had nothing to do with the private works. 
They said theyd supplied three invoices for insurance works to BCC, but BCC hadnt 
paid them. 
They said they paid all of BJs invoices as the private work was being carried out. But, it 
was only when they saw that BJ was double charging for VAT on materials that they held 
some money back and asked for sight of all invoices for materials, so that they could 
check how much theyd been overcharged. They said that, initially BJ supplied copies of 
some of the invoices, but there are still a number that theyve not seen. And they agreed 
that this is a private matter.
BCC responded to accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs Rs response into consideration but Ive largely come to the 
same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.
I note theyve raised that BCC hasnt paid three invoices and theyve asked that I direct BCC 
to pay them. BCC has in turn set out that it believes these invoices are for works that BJ had 
previously done. So they questioned why they were being asked to pay for this again. 
However, as I said in my provisional decision, Im unable to comment on anything thats 
happened after February 2022. If Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R believe that BCC hasnt paid 
everything that its required to pay, then theyll need to raise a new complaint regarding this. 
However, for the avoidance of doubt, I would expect BCC to pay for works that were 
required to rectify or finish any issues regarding the insurance related work BJ did or didnt 
finish. 
Ive also considered Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs Rs comments that the primary issues related to 
the delays in resolving the issues with the studio annex. As I said, I recognise that there 
were issues outstanding with all aspects of the property and, in particular, the studio annex 
wasnt finished by the time Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R needed it to so they could continue with 
their rentals. It does seem that there was some confusion about when the work would be 
completed and I think this process could have been handled better. 
However, I also havent seen enough to show that all the delays were avoidable  i.e. that 
BJ could have reasonably ensured that all the works to the studio annex would be finished 
by the date required. I think its most likely some of these issues are down to the significant 
amount of works that were required to be rectified under the claim. I recognise that the start 
of the relationship breakdown would have come from the fact the repairs werent completed 
in the way Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R expected. But I still believe the fundamental issue that 
caused BJ to stop working and resulted in the final breakdown in the relationship was down 
to the issues with the private works. 
That said, Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R are entitled to be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the way the insurance works were handled. But I still think £750 is 
fair compensation for whats happened.
Finally, no parties have made any comments around my intended instruction that BCC 
should arrange for an independent company to provide any outstanding certificates as 
required to confirm the safe completion of the window and electrical works. So I see no 
reason to comment on this further. However Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R have also highlighted 
that gas certificates havent been provided either. For all the same reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I think BCC should also arrange for this to be provided if it hasnt 
already done so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I intend to uphold this complaint and require Brooklin 
Claims Consultants Ltd to settle this complaint by: 
1. arranging for an independent company to provide any outstanding certificates as 
required to confirm the safe completion of the window, electrical and gas works; and
2. pay Mr B, Mrs B and Mrs R £750 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Mrs B and 
Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman