DRN-2178385
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has rejected her claim through her 
husbands employers Critical Illness policy. She feels she has met the definition of 
rheumatoid arthritis and her condition wasnt pre-existing.
 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he had seen evidence 
that showed Mrs Ps husband started his job in November 2019 but the policy didnt 
commence until 1 December 2019. He felt that the medical notes showed Mrs P had been 
experiencing multiple joint pain for over three months prior to December 2019, before being 
diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis in January 2020. He added that, Aviva had fairly relied 
on its Chief Medical Officers (CMO) opinion that the pain Mrs P was suffering from before 
the policy started was related to her condition and her diagnosis didnt meet the required 
definition of rheumatoid arthritis under her policy. 
Mrs P disagreed and has asked for her complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman. She said 
her GP clarified her pains were due to various reasons which arent related to arthritis, so 
she didnt think Aviva had fairly rejected her claim. She feels Aviva made a pre-determined 
decision and should consider when her condition was first diagnosed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs P. But Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision. 
There are two reasons Aviva has relied on for rejecting this claim. It says that Mrs P was 
suffering from an associated condition before the policy began. And even if it was to 
consider whether there wasnt an associated condition, Mrs P hasnt met the policys full 
definition of rheumatoid arthritis. 
So, first of all, I need to consider whether Mrs P was suffering from an associated condition 
before the policy started based upon the medical evidence Mrs P has already provided and 
which Aviva has already considered. If Im satisfied Aviva has fairly decided she was, then I 
cant ask it to accept the claim  whether she has met the full definition of rheumatoid 
arthritis or not. 
Mrs Ps policy excludes any critical illness in respect of which any associated conditions 
existed (whether diagnosed or not) at any time prior to the cover start date. The policy says 
specifically that;
 Any symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease or treatment which is either;
Recognised by reasonable specialist medical opinion to be related to the occurrence of a 
critical illness or operation, or
Is listed in the associated conditions column of the critical illness/operation table
which begins on page 4.
So, Ive carefully considered the medical evidence provided by Mrs P and Aviva in line with 
what the policy says. Mrs P has said her GP has pointed out that the joint pain she 
experienced in the months building up to her diagnosis could have been for any number of 
reasons. Avivas CMO says its likely she was experiencing a pre-existing condition of 
Inflammatory polyarthropathy before the policy started. 
Ive also considered a letter from Mrs Ps consultant which says she had a history which was 
very suggestive of inflammatory arthritis. The letter also mentions the pain started in her 
knees in September 2019. This evidence supports what Avivas CMO has said that the 
symptoms Mrs P was suffering before the policy started were associated with Inflammatory 
polyarthropathy and rheumatoid arthritis. So, Im more persuaded by the medical evidence 
provided by Aviva, that her symptoms fall within the associated condition above and first 
presented before her cover began. And because of this, I dont need to consider whether 
Mrs Ps condition meets the required definition of rheumatoid arthritis. 
Mrs P says this is unfair and Aviva has made a pre-determined decision. I can understand 
the point she is making here, and I do sympathise with the situation she finds herself in. But 
the reason for the above exclusion and conditions is that new entrants to an employer critical 
illness scheme are not underwritten when they join.  An insurer is entitled to protect itself 
from claims where a new member is suffering from an existing illness. And applying 
conditions such as this is standard practice for these types of policies which this service 
feels is not unfair. Aviva must make sure it treats all its customers fairly by applying these 
conditions consistently when it considers claims such as this. So, Im afraid I dont agree 
Mrs P has been treated unfairly by Aviva.
I note Mrs P has said recently her Rheumatologist would be happy to provide more details 
on her condition. Mrs P is entitled to provide more evidence to Aviva so it can review this 
first. But this would have to be considered as part of a new claim. 
So, Im not going to ask Aviva to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman