DRN-3988782
The complaint
Mr C complains that a loan was fraudulently taken out in his name with Lendable Ltd.
What happened
Mr C says that he lost his phone on 22 August 2022, and that it was used by a scammer to 
change details on his account with a credit reference agency (CRA). The CRA account was 
then used to apply for a loan with Lendable for £20,000 on 23 August 2022.
On 12 September 2022 Mr C contacted Lendable to say that he had not applied for this loan 
himself, and he did not think Lendable had done adequate checks to ensure the application 
was legitimate. Lendable looked into the loan application, but ultimately decided that it had 
adequate evidence to suggest that Mr C had applied for the loan himself, so it continued to 
hold him liable for the outstanding loan balance. 
Mr C was unhappy with Lendables findings, so he referred his complaint to our service. One 
of our Investigators looked into what had happened, but they also felt that the evidence 
suggested it was more likely Mr C had applied for the loan himself, so they did not uphold his 
complaint.
Mr C remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
Ive looked carefully at the evidence provided by Lendable and by Mr C, and I am satisfied 
that it is reasonable for Lendable to conclude that Mr C more likely than not did apply for this 
loan and should therefore be held responsible for repaying it.
I say this because the loan application was carried out with Mr Cs genuine details, including 
his home address, email and phone number. I acknowledge that the previously supplied 
number on the application is a number that Mr C says is not his, but the current phone 
number used on the application  which states it was verified via SMS  is the mobile 
number we hold for Mr C and which he continues to use. Lendable has also provided 
evidence that confirmation emails were sent to the email address held for Mr C, which 
matches with the email address Mr C is still using now. I also note that the loan was paid into 
Mr Cs own current account, and that Lendable carried out its usual fraud checks before 
agreeing to the loan, which did not flag up any concerns. So I cant agree that anything 
about the application should have flagged to Lendable that something might be wrong, nor 
do I think the application suggests that it was someone other than Mr C who applied for the 
loan.
I also agree with our Investigator that I cannot see a reasonable way that Mr Cs phone 
could have been compromised to allow the fraud to happen in the way he says it did. Mr C 
has provided evidence which he says supports that his device was compromised, but 
nothing Ive seen explains how a fraudster would have been able to compromise his online 
banking, emails, and CRA account, nor how someone could bypass the biometric security 
Mr C says he had on his phone.
I also acknowledge the correspondence Mr C has said he has received from third parties 
which he says confirm that he was defrauded. But while Ive carefully considered those 
documents, they do not change my view that it was fair and reasonable for Lendable to find 
that Mr C more likely than not did apply for this loan. It follows that Lendable is entitled to 
hold him liable for the outstanding loan balance.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman