DRN-2814139
The complaint
E and E, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to follow its 
instructions with regard to the naming of its account for more than ten years. It now seeks 
significant compensation for the inconvenience caused by this.
What happened
This complaint is brought on behalf of E and E, a limited company. E & E says that, as a part 
of its business, its required to hold money on behalf of its clients and that there are very strict 
regulations, both legal and professional, that cover this to ensure that client funds are 
properly protected.
E & E complains that its been trying to get Barclays to follow its instructions as to the correct 
naming of the accounts since 2009 and as a result its spent numerous hours and staff time 
on communicating with Barclays to clarify its requirements and to check whether the 
changes have in fact been made. It says that, despite this, its still not sure that all of the 
accounts have been correctly named as Barclays hasnt provided it with written confirmation 
that the changes have now been put in place.
In addition, Barclays failed to follow E & Es instructions to provide a monthly statement for 
each account showing what transactions have taken place. E & E says the problems have 
also been made worse by some of the mistakes made by Barclays when trying to resolve the 
problem. It says in 2018 Barclays renamed a number of the accounts but used the same 
name for each account with the result that E & E then had to spend a considerable amount 
of time in trying to identify the individual accounts and rename them correctly. It says this 
shows the problems its had to deal with in trying to resolve the problem and why its had 
such an impact on its own business.
E & E outlined the impact of this as follows:
numerous hours spent on calls and correspondence with Barclays over the past ten 
years to get this matter resolved and in checking that Barclays has followed its 
instructions in the correct naming of the accounts. This has taken up staff time that 
should have been spent elsewhere;
E & E was temporarily suspended from its professional body in 2016 because of the 
problems in the correct naming of the accounts.
Significant extra work caused by trying to sort out the problem before its 2019 audit 
to avoid further problems with its professional body.
E & E says Barclays has accepted responsibility for its failings on four occasions over the 
past few years -and paid £375 compensation- but the problems have continued. It feels this 
is unacceptable and for that reason it doesnt consider that the compensation paid so far is 
sufficient to reflect the impact this has had on its business. It considers £24,000 should be 
the minimum.
Barclays agreed there had been some problems with the renaming of the accounts. It said 
part of that was caused by the limits of its system as to the length of any account name but 
taking that into account, it had updated the account names as best as it could. And it says 
the instructions as to the account names werent always as clear as they could have been. 
However, it acknowledged that there had been problems but felt this had now been put right.
With regard to the statements, it said this wasnt a mistake but a systems issue as its system 
wasnt designed to send out a statement where thered been no transactions within the 
month. Further it had proved difficult to issue a statement for each calendar month, rather 
than a four-weekly period, because the dates were variable. However, it had now made 
changes which it felt would resolve this problem.
Barclays accepted that thered been some delay in resolving the problems with the account 
names but felt that the £225 compensation it had paid in 2019 (along with the previous £150) 
was reasonable.
Our investigator agreed thered been problems in getting the accounts named correctly but 
felt that, overall, Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly. It was clear that thered been 
longstanding problems in resolving the account names, which in part had stemmed from 
some misunderstanding as to what was required but it seemed Barclays had now resolved 
the problem and put in place measures to ensure statements were issued correctly.
It was clear that E & E had raised a number of complaints going back to 2017 and it was 
understandable that E felt this was unreasonable. However, when looking at the overall 
amount of compensation she had to take into account that E & E, the complainant, was a 
limited company and, as such, our approach was not to award compensation for the distress 
or upset caused by what had happened, only the inconvenience. In the circumstances she 
felt that the £375 already paid was reasonable. In addition, Barclays should provide E & E 
with a document detailing the account names and numbers as shown on its system and a 
statement for each account held to confirm they were now compliant.
E & E disagreed and said, in summary:
It was vital for client protection to ensure the accounts were correctly named and if 
Barclays wasnt able to do this, it should no longer offer the service. E & E rejected 
the view that its instructions had not been clear and said it had provided clear 
instructions repeatedly. It felt part of the problem was caused by Barclays decision to 
remove E & Es account manager around 2009 as the single point of contact which 
had made resolving the problem more difficult.
Barclays hadnt carried out E & Es instructions within a reasonable time and at 
times, its attempts to put matters right had made the situation worse. It felt Barclays 
was still not fully following the instructions given by E & E and that all the issues had 
still not been resolved.
the ongoing problems had resulted in E & E being suspended from membership of its 
professional body in 2015 and 2016.
It didnt agree £375 was adequate for the ten years inconvenience it had had as a 
result of Barclays failures.
On 1 March 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following points:E &E was complaining about matters that went back to 2009. However, the rules that govern 
what complaints (the DISP Rules in the FCA handbook) say that a complaint must be 
brought to us within 6 years of the date of the issue giving rise to the complaint or, if later, 
within 3 years of when the complainant could reasonably have known they had a cause for 
complaint. For that reason, I was only able to look at those issues that occurred within the 
last 6 years unless there were exceptional circumstances to justify extending this time limit. 
Having reviewed the information in this case, I couldnt see that there were any exceptional 
circumstances and I would therefore only be looking at the issues that occurred within the 
last 6 years.
With regard to the naming of the accounts, E & E had explained very clearly that it had legal 
and professional obligations with regard to the naming of its client accounts. This was to 
protect any client money it held and it was understandable that E & E had been so 
concerned at Barclays failure to follow its instructions on this and the time it had taken to get 
this put right.
To some degree Barclays had accepted its failings on this but believed the issue was now 
resolved and that the compensation it had already paid was reasonable. The question, 
therefore, was whether the steps it had taken to put matters right were sufficient or whether it 
needed to do anything more.
I could see that E & E had first raised this issue with Barclays in 2016 and that a formal 
complaint was made in March 2017. However, despite this and despite assurances that the 
accounts would be named appropriately, the problems continued and as at June 2019, at 
least six of the account names still required amendment according to the list provided by E & 
E.
It was also the case that although Barclays had tried to comply, it hadnt fully done so. It had 
also made a number of mistakes, including on one occasion renaming all the client accounts 
with the same name. As a result, E & E had spent a considerable amount of time in 
identifying each of the accounts affected and in renaming them correctly.
I could see that in October 2018 E & E had given very clear instructions as to the format of 
the names for each type of account. From that point I considered that Barclays would have 
been aware of what was required and what it needed to do to put matters right. For that 
reason, I could understand E & Es frustration at the ongoing problems and the impact this 
was having on its business. However, Barclays had now provided information to show that it 
had made changes to the account names and confirmed it would be issuing letters on each 
account so that E & E can check that this is the case.
With regard to the statements, it was clear there was a mismatch between what E & E 
required, which was a monthly statement on each account whether active or not, and 
Barclays system that didnt issue a statement if thered been no transactions. Further 
Barclays had explained it could only issue statements for a defined period and not for 
variable dates such as a calendar month. While this didnt fit with E & Es requirements, the 
way Barclays manages its operations is a commercial decision that is outside of the scope of 
this decision so I couldnt reasonably say it had made a mistake with this or ask it to change 
that. However, Barclays had since made arrangements to issue a statement at the start of 
each month. This would capture all the relevant transactions from the previous month and 
was a reasonable solution 
Id seen Barclays had already paid E & E £375 in total in compensation for the ongoing 
problems in getting the account names put right and time its taken to do this. It had also 
provided information to show that it had put in place further changes to resolve any 
outstanding issues and to provide monthly statements. It was clear E & E didnt consider that this was sufficient for the inconvenience this had caused, the time it had lasted and the 
impact on its business.
In the circumstances I didnt consider that the compensation already paid was sufficient for 
the impact of what had happened on E & Es business or the time it had lasted. For that 
reason, I proposed that this should be increased by a further £200 to £575. In addition, 
Barclays should now issue E & E with a list of all the accounts held by E & E to confirm the 
names and to agree any further amendments that are required.
While the compensation is significantly less than E & E was asking for. Id taken into account 
what E & E had said about the impact on individual members of staff. But the complaint was 
being brought by E & E as a limited company and, for that reason, I couldnt look at 
individual distress only the inconvenience caused to the company and Id factored that into 
my recommendation for a higher award. Further I hadnt seen any information to show 
thered been an actual financial loss and for that reason, Im not able to make an award for 
this. 
No response has been received from Barclays or E & E.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Barclays took longer than would reasonably have been expected to update 
the names on the various accounts held by E & E. As the naming of these accounts was 
critical to E & Es work, I can understand why it was so concerned at this delay and why it 
felt let down by Barclays failure to follow its instructions within a reasonable time. Ive no 
doubt that this impacted on E & Es work both in the amount of time it had to spend in 
chasing this up and in putting right some of the avoidable mistakes made by Barclays while 
this process was ongoing.
Barclays has provided information to show that it has now put matters right but I understand 
that E & E feels some doubt on this so I have directed Barclays to provide E & E with a list of 
all the account held showing their full names so that E & E can check these are correct. If 
any remain to be updated, Id expect Barclays to put this right as a matter of urgency to 
avoid any further problems.
Ive also seen that Barclays has put in place some changes to the way the statements are 
issued so that a statement should now be issued each month for each account where 
transactions have taken place. Barclays has explained that its system doesnt issue 
statements where theres been no transactions in that month and, as thats the way its 
system is set up, I cant reasonably ask it change that. But it should be possible for E & E to 
check the position each month online and to print off a statement if required and hopefully 
that will resolve this particular issue.
Putting things right
In the circumstances I remain of the view that it is reasonable to increase the compensation 
payable by a further £200 to reflect both the impact of whats happened and the time that it has lasted. That brings the total compensation to £575 which I consider to be fair for the 
impact of Barclays mistakes. 
In addition, within 2 weeks of the date of acceptance of this decision Barclays must also 
issue E& E with:
a) a list of all the accounts held by E & E to confirm the names and to agree any further 
amendments that are required.
b) a statement on each account showing the online name and to amend any that remain 
incorrect
I realise this isnt the decision E & E was hoping for but I consider that the increased 
compensation is reasonable for whats happened and fairly reflects the impact on E and its 
business.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold E and Es complaint in part and direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to:
 a) pay E and E a further £200 compensation for the impact of its failure to follow instructions 
with regard to the naming of E and Es client accounts. This makes a total of £575 
compensation.
b) within 2 weeks of the date of acceptance of this decision issue E and E with 
i. a list of all the accounts held by E and E to confirm the names and to agree any 
further amendments that are required.
ii. a statement on each account showing the online name and to amend any that remain 
incorrect.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E and E to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman