DRN-3123757
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc approved him for an account type that he wasnt 
eligible for.
What happened
Mr K started an advanced apprenticeship in 2016 and asked Santander to convert his 
Everyday Current Account to a 123 Student Account. Santander agreed to Mr Ks request 
and converted the account. In 2019, Santander converted the account again, this time to a 
123 Graduate Account.
In 2021, Santander wrote to Mr K to advise that the account would be converted back to an 
Everyday Current Account, because a 123 Graduate Account only lasts two years. Mr K still 
had time remaining on his apprenticeship, so he went into a Santander branch to query this. 
Santander told Mr K that if he could provide evidence of his course and end date then the 
account could be reverted to a 123 Student Account until his studies were complete. 
Mr K provided the requested evidence to Santander, but at that time Santander noticed that 
the apprenticeship that Mr K was engaged in didnt meet the criteria needed to qualify for a 
123 Student Account, and that therefore Mr K should never have been given a 123 Student 
Account or the later 123 Graduate Account. Mr K wasnt happy about this, especially as the 
gathering of the course information that Santander requested had taken place at the time of 
a medical diagnosis and had caused him additional stress. So, he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Ks complaint. They acknowledged that theyd made an error by 
providing a 123 Student Account to Mr K and apologised to Mr K for this. Additionally, 
because Mr K had been under the impression that he would benefit from an interest and fee 
free overdraft until July 2023 they agreed to suspend interest and fees on Mr Ks Everyday 
Current Account overdraft until that time. Finally, in recognition of the trouble and upset the 
matter had caused Mr K, Santander offered to make a payment of £250 to Mr K as 
compensation.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Santanders response and felt that Santander should write off his 
overdrawn balance and pay him a higher amount of compensation. So, he referred his 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that 
the response that Santander had already issued to Mr Ks complaint represented a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what had taken place, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have acknowledged that they made a mistake by offering Mr K a 123 Student 
Account and a later 123 Graduate Account because the apprenticeship that Mr K was 
engaged in didnt meet the criteria required by the terms of those accounts. 
In such circumstances, what this service would expect would be that Santander would take 
corrective action to ensure Mr K isnt unreasonably disadvantaged by the recognition of this 
error, and that Santander would offer to fairly compensate to Mr K for any distress or 
inconvenience he may have incurred.
I think that Santander have done that here. Theyve agreed to provide Mr K with an interest 
and fee free overdraft for the length of time that he would reasonably have expected to have 
benefited from one had he been able to retain a 123 Student Account, and theyve offered to 
pay Mr K £250 compensation for the trouble and distress that hes incurred.
It should be recognised that Mr K has benefitted financially from having the 123 Student 
Account as a result of the interest and fee free overdraft which he wasnt technically eligible 
for and which he wouldnt have received had his account remained as an Everyday Current 
Account during the period in question. As such, Im satisfied that Mr K hasnt incurred any 
financial detriment as a result of Santanders error and his being given a 123 Student 
Account and later 123 Graduate Account.
Im aware that Mr K feels that Santander should write off the overdrawn balance of his 
account because of their error, but this isnt an instruction that I would consider in this 
instance, and one reason for this is because Mr K has had the benefit of using the 
overdrawn monies and as such I consider it fair that he should repay those monies.
And, by allowing Mr K to continue to benefit from an interest and fee free overdraft for a 
further two years, Im satisfied that Santander have taken steps to ensure that Mr K isnt 
detrimentally impacted by returning of his account to being an Everyday Current Account, 
and that this arrangement allows Mr K to arrange the repayment of the overdrawn amount 
without being charged interest or fees within a reasonable timeframe, should he choose to 
do so.
Im aware that interest was charged to Mr Ks overdraft by Santander following the 
conversion of Mr Ks account to an Everyday Current Account and in contrast to Santanders 
confirmation that interest and fees wouldnt be applied for a further period. However, 
Santander, have been able to demonstrate that these amounts have been reimbursed to    
Mr Ks account and have confirmed that no further interest or fees will be applied for the 
remainder of the time that they have agreed.
Im also aware that Mr K feel that the offer of £250 compensation made by Santander 
doesnt go far enough and doesnt adequately account for the distress that this matter 
caused him at a time when he had received a medical diagnosis. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But, while I 
can appreciate Mr Ks position, the £250 that Santander have offered to Mr K here does feel 
fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, 
given the circumstances.
All of which means that I feel that the response that Santander have already issued to Mr Ks 
complaint, including providing Mr K with an interest and fee free overdraft until July 2023 and 
the offer of £250 compensation, does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Santander to take any further action beyond that to which theyve already agreed.I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr K was wanting, but I trust that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman