DRN-1757966
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc hasnt allowed her to move to better rates of 
interest on her mortgage account. As a result shes paid a lot more interest than she should 
have.
What happened
Mrs B took out a mortgage with BoS pursuant to an offer it had made dated 24 July 2007. 
This was for a loan of £206,000 in three parts of £134,000, £44,000 and £28,000. 
Part 1 had a fixed interest rate of 5.05% until 31 October 2007. After that it would go onto the 
standard variable rate (SVR) which was then 8.1%.
Part 2 had a variable rate of 1.29% above the Bank of Scotland base rate, which was then 
5.75% giving a current rate of 7.04%.
Part 3 was on the SVR.
Mrs B says that in its response to a complaint shed made previously, BoS said that as 
regards interest-rate products, as a self-certification customer she was only eligible for "self-
certification products" and that it had no record of any request by her for a product change 
prior to 2017. 
I think shes referring to BoS letter of 7 June 2018 which said that self-certification  
mortgages  were  still available  before the mortgage  market  review  (MMR)  changes  in 
2014.  Before  that, self-certification  customers  were  limited  to the products  in its self- 
certification  range.  Following  MMR,  BoS had allowed  these  customers  to switch  to 
products  other  than self-certification  subject  to meeting  its lending  criteria.
Mrs B says that on reviewing her statements and product details shes seen that a new 
product was applied to her mortgage account in 2007. She asked BoS to confirm whether all 
products relating to her mortgage were self-certification specific. She has now received a 
letter confirming that Parts 1 and 2 were self-certification only products. She says that a 
product BBT626 applied in October 2007 wasnt. 
I think shes referring to BoS letter of 20 December 2019. In this letter BoS noted that Mrs B 
had said shed called in 2013 to request a new interest rate. But BoS was unable to find any 
record of this. Shed called in September 2007 and product BBT626, a 2 year tracker, was 
agreed. This product was from BoS mainstream range.
Mrs B wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator 
didnt recommend it be upheld. She said wed already dealt with a complaint by Mrs B about 
the interest rates on her account, and BoS not offering new interest rate products, so we 
couldnt look into that again. But we could look at the self-certification issue.
The investigator said that she was satisfied that from October 2007 when the product 
transfer was arranged, Mrs B was no longer on the self-certification scheme. Mrs B had said 
that shed contacted BoS in 2013 to arrange a better rate and was told that as she was a 
self-certification customer she had limited options. Based on those options shed decided to 
stay on the base rate.
But the investigator couldnt see any record showing that Mrs B had contacted BoS in 2013 
about changing to a better product. If she had, she wouldnt have been limited to self-
certification products.
Mrs B asked for her case to be looked at by an ombudsman. She said wed taken BoS word 
over hers when it said that it had advised her she was no longer a self-certification customer. 
She said it had even confirmed that she was a self-certification customer in a previous 
complaint letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS previous complaint letter, whether this was the letter of 7 June 2018 or the letter of 
20 December 2019, didnt say that Mrs B was a self-certification customer.
It seems to me that BoS must have taken Mrs B off the self-certification scheme in 2007 
because it gave her a mainstream product. On 28 September 2007 BoS wrote to Mrs B:
Please confirm that you have reviewed the key facts illustration and wish to proceed with 
the transfer by ensuring all parties to the mortgage sign below.
To help us transfer your account to the special rate you have chosen, and on the date you 
have requested, please return this signed acknowledgement within five days in the prepaid 
envelope provided. You must return the whole sheet and we will then proceed with your 
transfer.
At the bottom of this letter it says:
I acknowledge receipt of the key facts illustration
And this is signed by Mrs B with her name printed and the date 9 October 2007. So she 
must have understood she was switching products.
I agree with the investigator that from October 2007 when the product transfer was arranged, 
none of the mortgage was on the self-certification scheme.
The previous complaint letter (BoS letter of 7 June 2018) did indeed say that customers  like 
Mrs B who took out self-certification mortgages  would  have  been  limited  to the products  
in its self-certification range.  But that, as BoS said,  was until the changes  made  in 2014.  
The letter  didnt  say, as Mrs B suggests,  that she was then still a self-certification 
customer. 
I think there have been some misunderstandings here. But I cant see that Mrs Bs 
complaints that BoS misled her, or unfairly refused to allow her to move to better rates, have 
been made out. It hasnt unfairly refused new product applications. The evidence suggests 
that Mrs B simply failed to realise that she could s witch  to products  other  than self-
certification,  subject  to meeting  BoS  lending  criteria.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020. 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman