DRN-3456204
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shop Direct Financial Services Ltd (SDFS) didnt compensate him 
properly for its handling of his account in respect of a faulty bed and mattress.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
It is agreed that the bed and mattress were faulty and SDFS agreed to them being returned 
and replaced. The issue which I have to consider is the level of compensation due to Mr D. 
There were delays in collecting the mattress as it required two handlers due to it having 
been opened. This wasnt identified by SDFS initially. I agree it would have been reasonable 
to presume that it had been opened as Mr D needed to inspect it to identify the damage. 
However, in my experience such items come wrapped in clear plastic and it is possible that 
SDFS or its courier assumed the item had not been unwrapped.
That said, there was a delay in the old mattress being collected and some compensation is 
merited. I gather the replacement was left in the lobby of Mr Ds building and it was stolen. 
While this is unfortunate I cannot hold SDFS responsible for the theft. The delivery took 
place at a time when Covid restrictions were in place and the courier did not allow its staff to 
enter peoples houses. I cannot say that SDFS did anything wrong in this aspect of the 
matter.
I appreciate the delay in the new mattress being delivered was inconvenient for Mr D, but I 
think SDFS took reasonable steps to ensure it was delivered as quickly as was possible. So 
I dont consider the compensation offered by SDFS to be unreasonable.
Subsequent to Mr D raising a complaint with this service it has become clear that SDFS had 
not updated his account accurately and it had not credited the stolen mattress. Our 
investigator explored this issue and SDFS agreed it had made an error. I have given 
consideration to whether this merited additional compensation, but I believe that Mr D has 
not suffered financially as a result of this error. And the issue was pursued by this service on 
his behalf so while he may have been frustrated by his account not being updated correctly I 
do not believe additional compensation is needed.
SDFS has offered Mr D £105 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered and I 
consider that to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Shop Direct Financial Services Ltd has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Shop Direct Financial Services Ltd should pay £100 if it has not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman