DRN-3327471
The complaint
Miss M complains that Stripe Payments UK Limited closed her merchant account after it had 
confirmed to her representative that she could use its services.
What happened
Miss M says that she paid for a website for her business to be developed. And that her 
representative had spoken with Stripe about this and been given the impression that her 
proposed business would be acceptable. She is unhappy that her account was then closed.
Stripe said it wouldnt be allowing Miss M to have an account. It had determined that       
Miss Ms business was on its restricted businesses list. It said that its services agreement 
stated that it couldnt support such businesses. Miss Ms business falls under the Adult 
content and services category. So, it had closed her account in line with its terms and 
conditions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He couldnt say Stripe had 
made an error in applying its policy. Miss M said that her representative had spoken to Stripe 
about the account. There was no recording of that call in January 2021, but hed looked at 
the call notes from Stripe and a subsequent email it sent to the representative. The internal 
call notes (which are given here as made and without any spelling corrections) recorded that 
he had been told that  so long is the website is align with Stripes terms of service that 
should be sufficient and if theres a need to verify we will reach out to. Stripe had also told 
our investigator that Miss M had an account closed before and the reason given to her then 
was that were unable to process payments for pornography and adult content at this time.
Our investigator said that we provide informal dispute resolution and we wouldnt be able to 
look at the position of any other businesses which Miss M claims are similar to hers and are 
allowed to use Stripes services. The only complainant here is Miss M. He appreciated that 
there might have been a misunderstanding following the call, but Stripe hadnt made any 
error.
Miss M didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. Her representative said that 
the website was active at all times. He understood the policy but had confirmation he could 
use Stripe if those making payments verified their age before accessing content. The phone 
call was key, and Stripe had never emailed any confirmation. This had delayed Miss Ms 
business for over a year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Stripe was entitled to make a commercial decision about who it does business with. Ive 
seen that Miss M reasonably knew about Stripes policy regarding her business on 14 
November 2020 when an account shed applied for had been closed for the reason set out 
above. She would have been able to apply for an account for a different sort of business and 
she had another open account after that. 
The information Ive seen from Stripe is that it consistently said that any business would 
need to meet the terms of its agreement. And it has provided a copy of the content of an 
email to her representative on the day of the call which started Thank you for accepting my 
call earlier about the information required on your colleagues business website to use 
Stripe. It went on to state As mentioned we generally do require that a user has a 
functioning website in order to use Stripe, primarily so we can review what business they are 
in, to ensure its a business we are able to support and that is in compliance with our terms 
of service. It ended by providing a reference to the required information. I cant account 
for why the representative says that wasnt received. Stripes call notes further recorded that 
the representative was adv that he can create a website for his friend since he is a web 
developer that is alight to our terms and service.
I understand Miss Ms account was closed on 17 March 2021 and a further application that 
month declined the day after it was made. She has never been able to process payments for 
her business using Stripe.
I understand Miss Ms position about what happened. And she still doesnt think that the 
policy is fairly applied. But Im afraid that from what Ive seen Im satisfied Stripe had made 
its position about her business clear to her. I can only look at her complaint and for the 
reasons Ive given I dont have a basis to find that Stripe made a mistake or acted 
unreasonably in applying its policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman