DRN-1874272
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc trading as Cahoot incorrectly registered a default on 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr C says in 2019 he applied for a mortgage that was rejected. He found out his credit score 
had reduced due to a default registered on his credit file by Cahoot. Mr C says he last used 
his Cahoot account in about 2011 and says he spent a significant amount of time trying to 
find out what had taken place. He says Cahoot accepted it made a mistake but only offered 
him £50 compensation which isn't enough and doesn't take account of the increased cost of 
the mortgage he was forced to take out.
Cahoot accepts it made a mistake and shouldn't have registered the default. It says a 
payment was authorised which resulted in fees and charges being applied which Mr C didn't 
pay. It also says it sent Mr C account statements and wrote to him about the balance. 
Cahoot say Mr C's account statements were e-mailed to him as well as information about his 
account.
Mr C had brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
Cahoot's letters had been sent to the address it held on its records but Mr C had moved. The 
investigator also thought Cahoot had e-mailed letters and statements to Mr C which its 
records say were read. In those circumstances the investigator thought it was Mr C's 
responsibility to mange his account  but accepted Cahoot hadn't dealt fairly with the 
complaint and recommended it increased its compensation offer to £200. The investigator 
didn't think it possible to be sure the default was the sole cause of the mortgage refusal.
Cahoot has agreed with that recommendation but Mr C says the only reason for the 
mortgage refusal was the default. He says he has now been given compensation for a 
different Cahoot error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Cahoot should increase its compensation offer to £200. I realise Mr C will 
be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at Cahoot's records carefully to find out what has taken place here. And I'm 
satisfied the problem was caused initially by a payment Mr C appears to have authorised 
that wasn't repaid. I appreciate Mr C may have been unaware of the payment and unaware 
that he was incurring charges. But I can't fairly hold Cahoot responsible for that and I think 
Mr C was responsible for the account management and that Cahoot sent Mr C e-mails and 
account statements which Cahoot's records say were read. In those circumstances I would have expected Mr C to have noticed there was an account balance.
Cahoot accepts it should not have registered a default on Mr C's account. I can't be sure if 
that was the sole reason Mr C's mortgage application was refused, and so I can't fairly order 
Cahoot pay compensation for the increased mortgage payments. It may have been the case 
the lack of payments themselves had an impact and I think that lenders consider a number 
of factors when deciding to lend. I have not seen any evidence from the lender that the 
default was the sole reason for the mortgage rejection.
There is no doubt Cahoot  made a mistake here and didn't deal with Mr C's complaint as it 
should. It took some time for Mr C to be given an explanation and I have no doubt he was 
caused distress and inconvenience. I don't think Cahoot's offer of £50 goes far enough and I 
agree it ought to increase the total offer to £200. I'm satisfied that offer is fair and reasonable 
and fairly takes into account what's taken place here.
I appreciate that Mr C may not wish to accept that offer, and so I will leave it to him to 
decide. I also make clear that the compensation he has received from Cahoot appears to be 
for a different issue and that is not something I can consider in this complaint. If Mr C 
decides to accept my decision then that would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Cahoot should pay a further £150 compensation making a total of £200.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc trading as 
Cahoot to pay Mr C a further £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman