DRN-2364358
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint is about the quality of the repairs made by after she made a claim for a 
damaged phone under her mobile phone insurance with Great Lakes Insurance SE.
What happened
Miss M bought mobile phone insurance with Great Lakes in 2018. In April 2020 the screen 
on her phone smashed and she made a claim under her policy. Great Lakes accepted the 
claim so Miss M paid the £100 excess and sent the phone to be repaired. When she got it 
back she said it seemed fine although the screen would sometimes switch itself off. She 
thought this was due to excessive usage so didnt pursue it. In July 2020 the screen on her 
phone went off and she couldnt switch it on again. She made an appointment with Apple 
who said the screen wasnt an Apple branded product and hadnt been connected properly. 
They said the screen needed replacing. Miss M contacted Great Lakes but it said the three 
month warranty for repairs had expired and it was unable to look at the phone unless she 
made a new claim, and paid the excess again. Miss M wasnt happy with this. She cancelled 
her policy and made a complaint. She also took her phone to be repaired by a third party. 
They said the screen was of poor quality and had been poorly fitted. The third party replaced 
the screen at a cost of £130.
Great Lakes maintained its position. It said all its repairs were made using fully compatible 
parts of the highest standards and it was by no means certain the parts used to repair 
Miss Ms phone were the cause of the issues she experienced afterwards. Miss M wasnt 
happy so approached this service. She said she wanted the £100 excess refunded, plus 
£130 shed paid for the phone to be repaired, and compensation for the period of time shed 
been without a working phone.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes needed to do more to resolve the complaint. She 
thought the repair had been unsatisfactory. Although the phone had broken outside the three 
month warranty period, the evidence showed it had broken due to the repair and, as such, 
she didnt think it was fair or reasonable to limit the warranty to three months. She said 
Miss M would always have needed to pay the excess but thought Great Lakes should refund 
£130 and give Miss M a further £100 in compensation for the inconvenience of not having a 
phone for about ten days. 
Miss M agreed with the investigators conclusions, but Great Lakes didnt. It said the phone 
had worked well for three months, which isnt indicative of a faulty repair. It thought the 
investigator had given more weight to third party comments than was merited. And it said 
there was no objective evidence to say the repair was the cause of the subsequent 
problems. It also thought £100 was too high for poor customer service, particularly as it had 
responded to Miss Ms complaint within four days. As Great Lakes didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
Great Lakes are right to say theres no objective evidence to show the problems Miss M had 
with her phone were caused by the repair that had been made. But, on balance, I think the 
evidence that is available indicates its more likely than not the repair wasnt satisfactory and 
led to the problems later on. Great Lakes didnt offer to inspect the phone to assess the 
damage. So, the only evidence thats available is Miss Ms testimony, plus the evidence from 
Apple and the third party who repaired the phone. Miss M said both parties thought the 
replacement screen was substandard and had been fitted incorrectly. I have no reason to 
doubt Miss Ms recollection of what was said to her, particularly as its supported by the 
evidence Ive seen. Miss M also said there had been problems with the phone within the 
three month warranty period when the screen occasionally turned off. Taken together, Im 
persuaded the repair wasnt satisfactory and led to the problems with the phone Miss M 
experienced in July 2020.
Great Lakes told Miss M the phone was under warranty for three months from the date of the 
repair  and as shed contacted them shortly after three months, it wouldnt repair the phone 
again unless she made a second claim and paid the excess. I dont think thats fair. Miss Ms 
policy said Great Lakes would pay for the repair of her mobile phone if it broke down or was 
damaged as a result of an accident. I would expect that repair to be effective and lasting. But 
the evidence suggests it wasnt repaired properly so I dont think Great Lakes fulfilled its 
obligation under the terms of the policy. 
Putting things right
I therefore agree with our investigator that Great Lakes should do more to resolve this 
complaint. I think it should reimburse the amount Miss M paid for the repair, plus interest. I 
also think it should pay some additional compensation to reflect the inconvenience and upset 
caused by the handling of the claim, including being without a phone for longer than was 
necessary and having to arrange her own repair. I think £100 is a reasonable amount to 
recognise the impact of that poor claims handling.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and require it to do the following:
Reimburse Miss M the £130 she paid to have her phone repaired, together with 
interest at 8% simple per annum from the date she paid the costs to the date of 
reimbursement;
Pay Miss M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of her claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 Richard Walker
Ombudsman