DRN-3139025
The complaint
Mr P complains that Cater Allen Limited failed to act on his request for information about the 
recipient of a transfer he made from his account.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Cater Allen could only act on a request for information from signatories of the bank 
account. 
The account was held inside Mr Ps self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and the 
evidence shows he wasnt a signatory for the account. The only signatories were two 
corporate trustees from Greyfriars Asset Management (GAM) which had since gone 
into administration.
While Cater Allen had an agreement with Hartleys Pensions regarding the accounts 
passed to them by GAM, Mr P had transferred his SIPP to a different provider prior 
to GAM going into administration. So, I dont think Hartleys had the authority to 
request the information either. 
Cater Allen incorrectly signposted Mr P to Hartleys when he should have been told 
to contact GAMs administrators  Smith & Williamson.
Cater Allen could have also been clearer with Mr P by saying, even with the correct 
authority, they could only trace the account to which the money was sent. They 
couldnt trace the details of the account holder  which is what Mr P wanted. 
Had Cater Allen given Mr P the correct information and even if hed obtained the 
correct authority, he would have only been given the bank account number to which 
the money was sent. And I think its likely that was information Mr P already knew.
Cater Allens actions caused unnecessary inconvenience and stress to Mr P when he 
repeatedly had to contact Hartleys Pensions only to later be told they couldnt help 
him. And even if they could, Cater Allen hadnt clearly explained the exact nature of 
the information hed likely be given. 
Cater Allens error required a reasonable effort from Mr P to sort things out and 
lasted several weeks. It would have also been disappointing for Mr P to not have 
received the information hed hoped for. But I think £100 compensation adequately 
reflects the inconvenience and disappointment Cater Allen caused him.
I appreciate Mr P thinks the award should be closer to £1,000 but I dont think 
Cater Allens mistake caused any substantial upset and worry or had a long-term 
impact on him.    
Putting things right
 To resolve Mr Ps complaint, Cater Allen Limited should:
Pay Mr P £100 for the stress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is this complaint should be upheld. Cater Allen Limited should now pay 
Mr P £100 if they havent done so already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman