DRN-3321849
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC havent refunded him after he was the victim of 
a scam. 
What happened
Mr C says he was contacted by someone claiming to be from HMRC, saying he owed tax. 
He was threatened with action from the police and would be arrested if he didnt pay the tax 
he owed. He said he was frightened and panicked. Mr C followed the scammers instructions, 
setting up a new payee and made a payment of £549. After this he was asked to make 
further payments and became suspicious so called his brother to discuss it with him and he 
thought Mr C had been scammed. 
Mr C says he called Barclays within 5 minutes of the payment to explain what had 
happened. He believes Barclays took a long time to investigate the complaint and is 
unhappy that he was only offered £150 in compensation but hasnt been refunded the 
money he lost as part of the scam. 
Barclays records show the following transactions were made on Mr Cs account 
Date Time Amount Outcome
16/01/2021 12:53 £549 successful
16/01/2021 13:00 £449 blocked
16/01/2021 13:06 £449 blocked
16/01/2021 13:07 £499 blocked
16/01/2021 13:09 £235 blocked
Barclays confirmed it didnt pick up the first transactions as being suspicious but the 
attempts made after this were blocked.
Barclays says it contacted the recipient bank within an hour of it being told about the scam 
by Mr C, but no funds remained in the account. It said it wouldnt be refunding Mr Cs losses 
because he didnt complete any due diligence prior to making the payment to the scammers, 
or conduct any checks to verify the caller was genuinely calling from HMRC.  Barclays said 
Mr C has his own business and so believes he should have some understanding of how 
HMRC operates. 
Barclays said Mr C selected to pay friends, family or partner as the payment purpose and it 
provided the following warning to Mr C, prior to the payment being made. It said: 
Were continuing to increase the protection we offer you, but its also important for 
you to protect yourself. Once a transactions gone through, its difficult to recover 
your money. Well never ask you to move your money to a safe account, nor will the 
police, HMRC or any trusted organisation
Stay safe from scams
 
Have you actually met this person and how well do you know them? Speak to them 
directly to verify their details before going ahead.
 
Payment request on social media, dating sites and claims or family crisis, can be 
fraudulent. Be cautious about transferring money for someone else, especially if 
youve received funds unexpectedly. 
It also attempted to check the payee details but could not do this so presented a message 
which said the account details could not be checked. 
Barclays offered Mr C £150 in compensation for the delays in providing an outcome to him 
but declined to refund his losses from the scam.
Unhappy with the response from Barclays, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. He 
concluded: 
-Under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) he didnt think that Barclays 
provided an effective warning. He said the warning focussed on a call asking 
customers to move their money and thats not the sort of call Mr C received. 
-He didnt think Barclays had established that Mr C didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief when making the payment. He was being threatened with arrest and this was 
enough to persuade Mr C it was a legitimate request. 
Barclays disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. In summary it said:
-The warning was impactful  it mentioned that HMRC will not ask customers to move 
money and asks customers to directly verify the details of the people they are 
speaking to  Mr C did not contact HRMC directly. 
-Mr C didnt complete any due diligence or complete any checks to verify the call was 
genuine or query why he owed tax. And it asked what previous experience Mr C had 
with HMRC and how hes previously paid tax.
Following Barclays response, we asked Mr C further questions and hes said:
-He was called on a spoofed/faked number which he said was the same as HMRCs 
number  but when asked why he didnt tell us this before or if he has evidence of 
this and he hasnt been able to provide anything further.
-He was given a code by the caller at the time (but no longer has this) and hasnt 
been able to explain or provide any further information about what this code was for.
-He said he didnt really understand what he was being told by the scammers but was 
told if he was found not guilty, he would get his money back.
-When asked about why he attempted several payments and this contradicting his 
previous version of events he hasnt responded. 
-He didnt know about his tax liabilities at the time as he was receiving job-seekers 
allowance.
-And weve asked him how he normally pays his tax but he hasnt responded. 
As the complaint could not be resolved it was passed to me.
I considered the complaint and set out my provisional findings to both parties, asking them to 
respond with any further points or evidence for me to consider before I reviewed everything 
again and set out my final decision. Here is what I said in my provisional decisionIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In doing so Ive come to a different outcome to the investigator. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they authorised the 
payment.
 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Barclays should have 
reimbursed Mr C in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect Mr C from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr C was tricked into making the payment. He thought he owed tax and there would 
be consequences if he didnt pay this. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr C to receive a refund of the 
money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr C too. 
THE CRM CODE
Barclays has signed up to and agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
It is for Barclays to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one or more of the 
listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the 
customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
 
Did Barclays provide an effective warning?
The investigator considered the warning that Barclays provided and concluded it didnt meet its requirements 
under the Code. He didnt think the warning was effective. I have however come to a different conclusion.
Whilst I think Barclays couldve provided a better warning than it did, I dont think it was was required to give an 
effective warning under the CRM Code, in these particular circumstances. I think this because the payment was a 
low value one and similar to transactions Mr C normally made on his account. Im persuaded that Barclays was 
entitled to consider there were no apparent APP scam risks here. So, I dont think it needed to provide a warning. 
It did go on to intervene in the further attempted payments that Mr C made, therefore limiting his losses to this 
one low value payment. But Ive found no other reason why Barclays ought to have contacted Mr C about the 
£549 payment before he made it, so I dont think Barclays needs to refund Mr Cs losses here. 
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis of belief?
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C has told us happened and the reasons Barclays says Mr C didnt have a 
reasonable basis of belief for proceeding with the payment. 
Mr C hasnt been able to provide me with any persuasive evidence that he received a call from a spoofed or 
faked number. He hasnt been consistent on this point and its something he has only recently told us. Spoofing 
can be such a powerful scam technique in persuading people they are speaking to a genuine or trusted 
company, so I would have expected Mr C to mention this earlier if he had received a call like this. Im not 
persuaded Mr C did receive a call from a number which he thought was HMRCs. And hes previously made no 
mention of checking the number at the time and finding that it seemed genuine.Mr C has mentioned he was given a code by the scammers but hasnt been able to explain what that code was, 
what it related to and how it was a persuasive feature of the scam.
 
Mr C hasnt been able to tell us anything about how he normally pays tax or any previous genuine interactions 
with HMRC. And linked to this he hasnt been able to provide any persuasive reason why he thought he owed 
tax. I appreciate he was threatened with arrest and police involvement and this was frightening and used as a 
tactic to get him to act quickly. But that in itself doesnt persuade me that he acted with reasonable belief that he 
was genuinely dealing with HMRC. As far as I can see he wasnt expecting to pay tax, he didnt query why he 
had to pay this amount, he didnt verify the caller in anyway and there werent any other factors to persuade Mr C 
he was speaking genuinely with HMRC. Overall Im not persuaded Mr C had a reasonable basis for believing the 
payee was HMRC or that the transaction was legitimate so I dont think Barclays has unfairly relied on the 
exemption not to refund him under the CRM code.
 
Other considerations
The evidence from Barclays shows Mr C was in contact about the scam at 14:48 and contact was made with the 
recipient bank by 15:27. The recipient bank said that no funds remained so Im persuaded Barclays did all it could 
to recover Mr Cs funds. 
My provisional decision
In summary Im not currently minded to find that Barclays has acted unfairly in deciding not to refund Mr Cs 
losses. I dont think the payment was one that ought to have caused Barclays concern and therefore prompt a 
warning and I dont think Mr C had a reasonable basis for making the payment. 
So, I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Barclays said it had provided all relevant information 
and evidence. 
Our investigator attempted to contact Mr C to see if he had anything to add but he didnt 
respond by the deadline set. So, I have reviewed everything again and as I havent received 
any further comments or evidence from Mr C I see no reason to change the outcome from 
the findings I previously made. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 March 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman