DRN-3960087
The complaint
Miss C has complained about Lloyds Bank PLCs refusal to refund transactions from her 
account which she says were unauthorised.  
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some of the key events here.
On 22 February 2022, Miss C received £10,000 and £7,000 in loan funds into her Lloyds 
current account. Later the same day £2,500 and £9,500 was paid out of her account, via 
faster payment, to two individuals, one of whom was known to Miss C.
 
Miss C has complained that she did not apply for the loans or authorise the transactions 
from her account. She told Lloyds that she thought her ex-partner, who was the recipient of 
the £2,500 payment had accessed her mobile banking app, via her mobile phone to carry 
out the transactions without her authority. 
Miss C referred a complaint concerning the loan applications to the Financial Ombudsman  
which has been considered separately. While that complaint was being considered Miss C 
asked us to consider Lloyds role in processing the payments from her current account. 
Lloyds investigated what Miss C said but refused to refund the transactions. It said in the 
circumstances, it considered Miss C was responsible for the transactions as she had allowed 
her ex-partner to make use of her mobile phone, from which the transactions had been 
made, which required him to have knowledge of her password and security log in details. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, he based his 
conclusion on the following: 
Technical evidence showed that the transactions were completed using Miss Cs 
genuine device (her mobile phone) and her online banking app, both of which were 
protected with security features to prevent someone else using them.
Miss Cs mobile banking app had been logged into more than 30 times between 21 
and 22 February 2022.
This level of usage did not match Miss Cs testimony that someone  possibly her 
ex-partner  had briefly made use of her mobile phone without her knowledge or 
consent. 
£5,000 had been left in Miss Cs account after the transactions were completed, 
which would have been unusual if someone else had been using her account 
fraudulently. 
Miss C disagreed with our Investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be referred 
for an Ombudsmans decision. She maintained that she did not authorise the payments that 
were made from her account. 
So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I understand that this will be extremely disappointing for Miss C. I dont 
underestimate the distress and upset she has experienced while pursuing this complaint. 
While I dont want to add to her worries, for the reasons Ill go on to explain I dont think 
Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably by refusing to refund the payments made from her 
current account. 
My role here isnt to investigate or explain exactly what happened when payments were 
made from Miss Cs account. I must decide, based on the available evidence, whether 
Lloyds decision to hold Miss C liable for the transactions she disputes is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
The relevant regulations  the Payment Service Regulations 2017  say that generally 
customers are liable for authorised payments, whereas banks will be liable for unauthorised 
payments. Customers can, however, be liable for unauthorised payments if theyve failed 
with gross negligence or intent to keep their security credentials safe and secure.  
In simple terms, if I were to uphold Miss Cs complaint, Id need to be persuaded that she 
didnt authorise the transactions in question. Thats to say, she didnt make the transactions 
herself, or give someone else permission, either explicitly or implicitly, to make the 
transactions on her behalf. 
Lloyds has demonstrated that the transactions were made through Miss Cs banking app, on 
the device that she usually used  her mobile phone. A password was required to access the 
banking app, selected digits from memorable information was also required to pass security. 
Lloyds technical data confirm that the appropriate information was provided to access the 
banking app and make the payments. In the circumstances Lloyds was entitled to treat the 
payments as having been authorised. 
Miss C has suggested that her ex-partner likely took her mobile phone, guessed her 
passwords  for both her mobile phone and banking app - and carried out the transactions 
without her consent. But Im not persuaded this is a plausible explanation in view of the 
available evidence. 
Like our Investigator, I think its significant that Miss Cs mobile banking app was logged into 
repeatedly throughout 21 February 2022, when the loans were applied for, and again on 
22 February 2022 when the payments were made from Miss Cs account. 
I understand that Miss Cs recollection of events has shifted over time, in so far as who (if 
anyone) had access to her mobile phone when these transactions took place. But most 
recently she advised us that she had not logged in to her banking app on 21 and 
22 February 2022, and that she thought her ex-partner may have secretly used her mobile 
phone to make the transactions. But if this were the case, this would not account for the 
volume and frequency of log ins to Miss Cs banking app. 
Its also significant that £5,000 from the loan funds remained in Miss Cs account until she 
returned them to the loan company several days later. This isnt something Id expect to see 
if a third party had fraudulently gained access to her account. A fraudster would generally look to take all available funds. It would be very unusual for a fraudster to leave a significant 
balance in an account they had access to. 
Overall, while its impossible to know with certainty what happened when the transactions 
were instructed through Miss Cs bank account, it is difficult to reconcile a sequence of 
events that would have enabled it to happen in the way Miss C has described without her 
knowing about it at the time. As such, I think Lloyds decision to treat the transactions as 
authorised by Miss C was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I am not upholding 
this complaint and wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further to resolve it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman