DRN-3112282
 Complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Mrs H says AXA France IARD mis-sold her PPI.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
The policy provided cover for life, accident, sickness and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Mrs Hs store card balance in the event 
of Mrs H being unable to work due to accident, sickness and unemployment. 
At the time, the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract 
interest. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
AXA had to make it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI. Unfortunately, AXA 
no longer has a copy of the store card agreement that Mrs H filled out at the time of the 
sale. I dont think this is unreasonable considering the sale was over 27 years ago now. 
Mrs H hasnt made any specific arguments about thinking that she had to take out the 
policy. And with nothing to suggest otherwise, I think its more likely AXA made it clear 
the policy was optional and that Mrs H chose to take out the policy, knowing she didnt 
have to.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs H enough clear and timely information 
so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. Mrs H says she had more than one job at the time of the sale and has 
specified that in one she was working over 16 hours per week, and in another she was 
working less than 16 hours per week. In most policies, it defines work as when you are 
working over 16 hours per week. And being able to make a successful unemployment 
claim depends on the individual policy definitions. Unfortunately, due to the length of time 
since the sale, AXA no longer has the specific policy document relevant to this sale. So I 
cant safely say its more likely that Mrs H was affected by the significant terms of the 
policy.  
Overall, the policy wasnt too dissimilar to what Mrs H reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs H would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman