DRN-1846798
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about Cofunds Limited. She is unhappy about the way it has 
administered her pension fund.
Mrs T is represented in this complaint by her financial advisers. Ill refer to them as R.
What happened
Cofunds held Mrs Ts pension funds on its platform. Mrs T had been making regular monthly 
payments to her pension and up to June 2018 these payments were invested in line with her 
requirements. R had arranged a model portfolio for her but had also arranged a regular 
investment into a specific equity fund. In June 2018 the contributions were being paid into 
that equity fund only, and not into the model portfolio.
But after June 2018 the contributions werent invested at all and were held in cash. Mrs T 
says that she lost out as a result.
Cofunds says that it received an on-line instruction from R on 18 July 2018 which 
deactivated the model portfolio. It says, in effect, that deactivation of the model portfolio also 
led to deactivation of the recurring investment.
R says that it may have deactivated the model portfolio on 18 July 2018, although it cant be 
certain. It says that it did deactivate portfolios for other clients around this time due to 
problems with accounts on the platform following the rebalancing of funds. However, it says 
that deactivating the model portfolio shouldnt have caused deactivation of the recurring 
investment to the equity fund.
Cofunds didnt uphold the complaint and it was referred to this service. Our investigator 
didnt think that it should be upheld. She explained that Cofunds had provided details of the 
system movements on Mrs T's account which showed that on 19 June 2018 R had assigned 
her account to a growth model portfolio. Then on 18 July 2018 the growth model portfolio 
was removed from her account by R. And because the model portfolio was removed, the 
recurring switch on Mrs T's account was also removed on the same day. This happened 
automatically when a model portfolio is removed. 
The investigator referred to the terms and conditions which say;
Where we receive an instruction from your adviser or discretionary fund manager to alter 
the investment within a model portfolio, to which your product is linked, this will result in
transactions to change the investments within that product to realign with any change to the
model portfolio.
So, the investigator concluded that Cofunds had followed their normal process and their 
terms and conditions by removing the recurring switch when the model portfolio was 
deactivated.
R, on behalf of Mrs T, didnt agree. It said the terms and conditions didnt mean that the 
recurring switch would also be deactivated when the model portfolio was. It said that 
recurring switches did continue to take place on other accounts in similar circumstances. It 
pointed to a number of other occasions when Cofunds had accepted that there were issues 
with the on-line platform, particularly in relation to failures in investment after rebalancing of 
funds or a change in portfolio.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I dont uphold this complaint. I can see from the submissions R 
has made that there had been issues with this platform. However, in this case Im satisfied 
that there was an instruction from R to deactivate the model portfolio. It has said that it may 
have given an instruction like this as it did the same for other clients at this time. So, I think it 
is most likely that it also gave an instruction for Mrs Ts account.
It seems that the instruction to deactivate the model portfolio had the additional effect of 
cancelling the recurring switch. R says this shouldnt have happened, but I dont think this is 
inconsistent with the terms and conditions Cofunds have referred to. Deactivating the model 
portfolio deactivated the recurring switch. The change to the model portfolio was to 
deactivate it and other transactions were aligned with that change. This meant that further 
investment would only take place once there was another instruction on the account, for 
example, reactivation of the model portfolio.
Im satisfied that in this case the primary cause of the recurring switch being cancelled was 
the deactivation of the model portfolio. Cofunds werent responsible for that and so I dont 
think it would be fair to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman