DRN-3731235
The complaint
Mr O complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) imposed a 
spending limit on his charge card and didnt give him adequate notice.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr O, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The terms of Mr Os charge card account with AESEL explained:
from time to time, we may set a spending limit which could be temporary or permanent. 
We'll tell you if we do this
On 29 July 2022 AESEL told Mr O thats what they were going to do. They imposed a 
spending limit of £2,100.
I dont think it would be fair to suggest AESEL had done anything wrong by imposing the 
limit because:
The terms of the account allowed them to do so.
The terms didnt require any notice to be given and its clear Mr O was aware a 
spending limit may have been applied as one had previously been imposed in 2021.
AESEL have a duty to lend responsibly and their review of Mr Os credit profile 
suggested a limit would be advisable.
Mr O was able to appeal the decision if he wished.
Mr O says he was reliant on the credit that was provided but I dont think theres evidence 
AESEL had been told about that, so I dont think there is evidence they were unsupportive. 
Its also clear that Mr O had access to other forms of credit he may have been able to use 
had funds not been available.
I dont therefore think AESEL have done anything wrong and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman