DRN-2977724
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs K have complained that Aviva Insurance Services UK Limited (Aviva) has 
unfairly refused to pay out the full value of their insurance claim.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs K suffered a break in at their home and a large number of valuables were 
taken. They made a claim to their insurers, but they say that there were delays in dealing 
with the claim and they werent offered enough to cover what was taken. In particular they 
say they were only offered £11,000 when the true value of what was stolen was significantly 
more and that it took around three months to fix their broken doors.
The insurance was sold by a high street bank as a branded policy, but the policy was 
underwritten by Aviva and it was Aviva that handled the claim, so it has answered this 
complaint. Aviva said it valued the items Mr B and Mrs K said were stolen and the figure was 
more than the limits set out in their policy. It said it would pay a claim equal to the policy 
limits, which came to £11,000. Aviva didnt offer anything extra for any delays in dealing with 
the claim. Mr B and Mrs K didnt think this was fair, so asked us to consider their complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought Aviva needed to do 
something more. They thought it wasnt reasonable to expect Mr B and Mrs K to know the 
full value of the items stolen, so they thought it was fair for Aviva to pay out the total value of 
the items taken and not apply a policy limit. Other than that, they thought Aviva had acted 
fairly in assessing the claim and the time taken to deal with the claim was reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Aviva disagreed and asked for this to be considered again by an
ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr B and Mrs Ks complaint as I came to a different 
conclusion to our investigator. Having looked at all of the evidence and arguments I thought 
Mr B and Mrs K had the following concerns:
Aviva hadnt paid the full value of the stolen jewellery
Aviva hadnt paid out for any stolen cash
Aviva took over three months to arrange the repair of their broken doors
There was damage to the bed, carpets and dining room table that wasnt paid for
Aviva caused delays by not responding to calls and emails
Aviva discriminated against Mr B and Mrs K due to their backgrounds
To work out what Aviva should have paid, I considered how the policy was sold to Mr B and 
Mrs K, what the terms of the policy said and the level of cover that theyd taken.
The policy was taken out in 2018 in a bank branch, so I didnt have a recording of what was 
discussed when agreeing any policy limits or what valuation estimates Mr B and Mrs K put 
on their valuables. But the policy was renewed in 2019 and 2020 and Id seen copies of the  
documents that were sent out then. The documents explained that Mr B and Mrs K needed 
to let Aviva know if any of their details had changed.
It was also up to Mr B and Mrs K to check that the policy was right for them, as Aviva didnt 
recommend this specific policy to them. So it didnt ask them questions about the value of 
their jewellery and suggest the right level of insurance. Rather it was up to Mr B and Mrs K to 
choose the level of insurance that covered their belongings. And the documents sent out at 
renewal set out the policy limits.
Mr B and Mrs K were sent a document titled Information Provided By You. It stated that this 
was the information given by Mr B and Mrs K when renewing the policy for the time covering 
the break in. It is also stated that if any of the information wasnt compete or accurate, Aviva 
may not pay any claim in full. It said that Mr B and Mrs K chose the contents cover of
£50,000 for the contents sum insured, £10,000 for total unspecified valuables and £2,500 
for the limit for a single article limit. It is recorded that there are no specified valuables. There 
was also a £1,000 limit for personal belongings in addition to the £10,000 total unspecified 
valuables limit. I didnt think these figures were chosen by Mr B and Mrs K every year, but I 
thought they reflected the amounts that had been chosen when the policy was first taken 
out. And I thought it was fair for Aviva to renew the insurance on these terms in this way 
every year.
Under the policy, valuables were defined as Stamp, coin or medal collections, pictures, 
other works of art, items of gold, silver or any other precious metal, jewellery, watches and 
furs. Personal belongings were defined as Luggage, clothing, jewellery, watches, furs, 
binoculars, sports, musical and photographic equipment and items which you normally wear, 
or carry with you. I didnt think any of the items listed were unusual or not the types of things 
a reasonable person would describe as valuables or personal belongings. The policy goes 
on to say that the most Aviva would pay under a claim for valuables was the policy limit set 
on the insurance schedule.
In conclusion, I thought Aviva set out the claim limits sufficiently clearly for Mr B and Mrs K
when they renewed the policy in 2020 and that the policy was clear in what it covered.
On 24 September 2020 it was recorded that Mrs K contacted Aviva to discuss the break in 
and the policy limits, but she didnt want to make a claim at that stage. I listened to a 
recording of this call. Both Mr B and Mrs K spoke on the call and Mr B said he thought the 
jewellery was worth between £20,000 and £25,000. Mrs K said she had copies of the 
receipts for the jewellery taken. She also said there was between £500 and £700 of cash 
taken and two beds had been broken. Mrs K explained that the back door, patio doors and 
kitchen door had all been damaged, but a friend who was a builder had put the doors back to 
secure the house. Avivas representative explained that they can send someone out to 
secure doors in an emergency, but Mrs K didnt ask for this. She said she had taken 
photographs of the damage.
On the following day there was a conversation between Mr B and Aviva where a claim was 
made, again I heard a recording of this call. Aviva said it needed to make a referral to a loss 
adjuster due to the high value of the claim. I couldnt see that at this stage there was any 
record of damage to the front door.
The loss adjustors visited the property on 1 October 2020 and reported back to Aviva, noting 
that the amount claimed was above the claims limit. But Aviva didnt accept the claim until it 
received a police report, which wouldnt be released whilst the police were investigating the break in. I saw that Aviva let Mr B and Mrs K know what was happening in emails and letters 
during October, November and December 2020. I thought this was a reasonable thing for 
Aviva to ask to see as Mr B and Mrs K were making a substantial claim for a large amount of 
jewellery, so what investigations the police had undertaken would have been of relevance to 
the decision whether or not to accept the claim.
I saw two valuation reports covering the items stolen. One dealt with three watches and 
valued them at £587 in total. The other report dealt with the remaining jewellery and valued 
19 items at £56,279.98 at the discounted replacement value and at £66,211.74 as the retail 
replacement value. The individual items ranged in price from around £150 to as high as 
around £12,500. 14 of the items had purchase receipts provided by Mr B and Mrs K and the 
remainder were gifts given to them.
Aviva explained that had it known the full value of the items that needed to be insured it
wouldnt have offered a policy on the same terms and at the same cost as the one Mr B and 
Mrs K took out. It explained that it would have only quoted for cover if they had a safe that 
met Avivas criteria, had a monitored alarm and had the right type of door locks. It would 
have also been a term that any of the single item valuables worth over £10,000 would have 
needed to either been worn or kept in a locked safe. Aviva also said any alternative policy 
would have cost more than what Mr B and Mrs K actually paid for their cover.
The result of that was that Mr B and Mrs K were underinsured for their needs, as the 
insurance they had wasnt sufficient to cover their contents and personal possessions . I 
thought Mr B and Mrs K would have known that their jewellery was worth more than the 
cover limit as they said as much when they spoke to Aviva on 24 September and as they 
had receipts for many of the items, so they would have known that the cost of the items was 
over £11,000.
When a consumer has given an insurer incorrect information about the value of the things 
being insured, the insurer has a number of different ways of dealing with any claim. In a 
situation like Mr B and Mrs Ks, I would have expected Aviva to pay a proportion of any 
claim, based on what they paid for their insurance compared to what they should have paid if 
Aviva knew the true value of their valuables. But any claim would still be capped at the policy 
limit. And as Aviva had agreed to pay £11,000, the actual limit of their policy, I thought that 
was fair.
Mr B and Mrs K said that between £500 and £700 in cash was stolen. Having seen the 
police reports and I couldnt see that this was reported to the police at the time. Under the 
terms of the insurance policy, Aviva would only pay out claims for stolen cash if it was 
reported to the police and, as I didnt think that was done, I thought Aviva had acted fairly in 
turning down that part of the claim.
I also considered whether Aviva took too long to repair Mr B and Mrs Ks doors. I noted that 
in the call of 24 September Mrs K said the doors had been put back by a builder and she 
didnt ask for an emergency repair to make them secure, even though that was presented as 
being available. And in that call Mrs K talked about the back door, patio doors and kitchen 
door being damaged, but not the front door. I couldnt see that the state of the front door was 
ever raised by Mr B or Mrs K to Aviva. So although it took three months to repair the doors, I 
didnt think this was too long as I didnt think anything needed to be done earlier to secure 
them.
Mr B and Mrs K complained that Aviva didnt pay out for damages to beds, carpets and a 
dining table. Aviva explained that it paid £20 for damage to a chair, but that was the only 
thing it paid out for in damage to possessions over the stolen jewellery. It explained that the 
carpet had already been successfully cleaned by the time it came to assess the claim, so it didnt make any payment for that. It also said that no actual claim was made for damage to 
any further items, save for a laptop that I looked at separately. Although I heard that Mr B 
and Mrs K talked about some damage in the initial phone calls, I couldnt see that they 
actually claimed for damage to carpets, beds or a dining table or provided photographs of 
the damage to Aviva. I noted that if they still wished to make a claim for those items, they 
needed to make that to Aviva directly.
Mr B also complained that Aviva didnt replace a laptop damaged in the break in and he 
provided Aviva pictures of this. But I saw that Aviva asked Mr B to let them inspect the laptop 
and he refused this request in October 2020. Given that, I didnt think Aviva acted unfairly in 
turning down the claim.
I didnt think Aviva took too long to deal with the claim. As set out above, I thought there 
were some delays whilst it waited for a police report, but I thought that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And Aviva offered to pay for the valuables within two months of the burglary, 
shortly after it received the police report. I also saw Avivas contact records showing there 
were conversations between Mr B, Mrs K and Aviva in October 2020, so I couldnt see that 
Aviva didnt respond to calls or emails, but I invited Mr B and Mrs K to provide any copies of 
unanswered emails in their response to my provisional decision. 
Finally, Mr B and Mrs K said they felt Aviva discriminated against them given the problems 
they experienced. I understood why they thought this as they didnt think the claim was dealt 
with properly. But having considered all of the evidence, I didnt think Aviva treated them 
differently to any other customer, nor did I think it acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Aviva responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr B responded to say he disagreed with what Id said. He felt that Aviva had a responsibility 
to get complete customer information and make sure cover was right for them. Mr B said he 
thought the level of contents cover of £50,000 was sufficient for their jewellery and they 
werent told that the cover was lower for their valuables. Mr B also noted that Aviva didnt 
ask for any valuations of the jewellery to be provided, and had it done so it would have been 
apparent that the valuables were worth more than £10,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything Mr B has said, I still dont think Aviva needs to pay anything 
further above its original offer.
In response to my provisional decision Mr B has only commented on the amount Aviva said 
it would pay for the stolen jewellery. Given that, Ive not reconsidered any of my other 
provisional findings about the other items claimed for, the delays or the concern that Aviva 
may have discriminated against Mr B and Mrs K.
I have thought about what Mr B has said about Aviva needing to find out more about his 
circumstances before selling him the insurance policy. But I cant see that Aviva (or the 
business that originally sold the policy several years earlier) ever gave Mr B and Mrs K 
advice about whether this policy was right for their needs. Instead each year Aviva needed 
to give Mr B and Mrs K enough information about the policy before it renewed so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was still right for them. Ive seen the renewal notice that was sent out before the policy renewed in March 2020. It 
doesnt contain all of the policy terms, but it does set out the claims limits. It sets out that the 
contents sum insured was £50,000, but directly under that it sets out that the total 
unspecified valuables limit was £10,000 and that there were no specified valuables. So I 
think it was sufficiently clear that the level of cover for valuables was £10,000 and not 
£50,000. That means I think it was up to Mr B and Mrs K to decide whether the insurance 
was right for them and I think they had enough information to make that assessment.
I dont think Aviva needed to ask Mr B and Mrs K to provide a valuation of their jewellery, but 
I dont think it makes a difference in this case. Here Mr B and Mrs K must have known about 
the value of their jewellery before Aviva undertook the valuation following the burglary as, in 
the first phone call in September 2020, they said they had some receipts and valued the 
jewellery at £20,000 to £25,000. So I think Mr B and Mrs K should have known they were 
underinsured as they thought their valuables were worth more than the £10,000 claim limit. 
In those circumstances, I cant see that Aviva did anything wrong in only agreeing to pay out 
the maximum amount agreed in the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Aviva Insurances Services UK Limiteds offer is fair 
and I dont direct it to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman