DRN-3826076
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited declined his claim and added an exclusion to his 
private medical policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out as part of my provisional findings. A copy of 
which is available upon request. 
In summary, Mr R took out private medical insurance with Vitality in June 2021. He claimed 
on his policy two months later, in August, as he suffered with rectal bleeding. Vitality 
eventually declined his claim in December 2021 and said that because Mr R failed to tell it 
hed suffered from this condition previously, it wouldnt provide cover. Vitality said it doesnt 
offer cover for previous medical conditions and so added an exclusion to Mr Rs policy.
Our investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint, but I didnt think that was fair. I said that Mr R 
didnt answer Vitalitys questions accurately. It asked Mr R whether hed suffered previously 
with bowel disorders  to which Mr R highlighted he had, but he couldnt remember the exact 
date. He thought it was almost five years ago. Vitality said itd really need him to get the 
date, the month and year to be precise. Mr R couldnt provide that information. 
When Mr R made his claim, Vitality discovered Mr R had suffered with bowel problems 
roughly two years prior to taking the policy and so, I said Mr R ought reasonably to have 
been aware of that and reported this correctly when asked. I thought Mr Rs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld in the circumstances because Vitality, had it known the full picture, 
wouldnt have offered cover for bowel-related issues. I gave both sides an opportunity to 
respond to my findings. Both Mr R and Vitality had nothing further to add. And so, its now for 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are explained in my 
provisional findings. Vitality would never have offered cover for bowel-related issues 
because it doesnt cover pre-existing medical issues. And because Mr R suffered with bowel 
problems within a couple of years prior to taking the policy, then his claim for rectal bleeding 
would not have been covered. As neither Mr R, nor Vitality, had any new arguments for me 
to consider, this is my final decision. I dont uphold this complaint because I dont think 
Vitality declined Mr Rs claim unfairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman