DRN-3501009
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about the service he received from Schroder Unit Trusts Limited 
(Schroders) when he called to make enquires about his stocks and shares ISA.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr H called Schroders to ask why the charges werent set out on his 
periodic statements. The adviser explained that this wasnt a regulatory requirement.
During the call the adviser explained that she didnt work directly for Schroders  she worked 
for a separate business which provided administration for Schroders. She also said she was 
working at home rather than in the office when Mr H asked her about this.
Mr H was unhappy with the information he was given, and with how the adviser handled the 
call. He said the adviser should have asked before putting him on hold; she should have said 
she worked for a separate business rather than Schroders; and, she should have explained 
earlier in the call that she was working from home. He was also unhappy that the adviser 
called him Sir.
Mr H complained to Schroders, and they sent him their final response to his complaint. They 
said, in summary, that they werent required to set out the charges on Mr Hs periodic 
statements. They said details of the charges were available on their website in the Key 
Investor Information Document, and they included an up to date copy of this document with 
their letter. They also said theyd sent Mr H letters in January 2020 and June 2020 to say 
that a separate business would be providing administration of investments on Schroders 
behalf.
They said the adviser should have asked before putting Mr H on hold, and apologised for 
this. But overall they thought the call had been handled politely and professionally.
Mr H brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. Because Mr H 
disagreed, his complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators outcome for the following reasons: 
I dont think Schroders are obliged to detail the charges on the periodic statements. As 
Schroders have explained, details of the charges are available on their website and they 
will write to Mr H if there are any changes. I dont think they need to anything more.
Schroders wrote to their investors in January 2020 and June 2020 to let them know that 
a separate business would be administering their investments. Theyve been unable to 
show us an audit log to demonstrate that these letters were sent to Mr H specifically, but 
Im satisfied, on balance, that they would have been. I dont think it was necessary for 
the adviser to disclose that she wasnt directly employed by Schroders before handling 
Mr Hs telephone enquiry.
I dont think its unreasonable that the adviser referred to Mr H as Sir during the call. 
And I dont think she was under any obligation to let him know she was working at home 
on that day. Schroders have apologised that she didnt ask permission before putting   
Mr H on hold, and I dont think they need to do anything more to put this right.
Overall Im satisfied that Schroders have dealt with Mr H fairly, and Im not going to ask them 
to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman