DRN-1633318
Complaint
Mrs E says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.          
Background
This complaint is about six high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to Mrs E 
between June 2015 and December 2015. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Es complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been provided 
with the loans from loan 3 onwards. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs E could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, at the beginning of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending in itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs E, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mrs E was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner when it provided Mrs E with her third loan.I say this because by this stage, Mrs E exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans without having made any payments to her existing ones. Sunny ought to have been 
aware of the fact that it could well have been increasing Mr Es debt unsustainably and that 
she mightve been struggling to manage her money. Sunny provided loans 4 to 6 to Mrs E 
even when this pattern was repeated and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to 
have realised that any further loans were more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Mrs E had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs E paid on loans 3 to 6;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
all adverse information about loans 3 to 6 should be removed from Mrs Es credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Es complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mrs E compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman