DRN-3709320
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, dealt with his request for 
a refund of a payment he made using his Halifax credit card.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr S paid €5,000 to a supplier Ill call V as a deposit for his wedding. He 
used his Halifax credit card to make the payment. He made a further payment to V in 
October 2020, again using his Halifax credit card. Both times, the sterling equivalent was 
debited to his credit card account.
It seems the wedding was originally set for April 2021 but given the uncertainty around the 
Covid-19 pandemic, this was moved to July 2021. Then, in March 2021, Mr S asked V to 
cancel his booking and for a full refund. At first, V said it would stick to the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss booking meaning it would refund all payments other than the €5,000 
deposit as this was non-refundable. But it then said it would also return half of the deposit, 
€2,500.
 
Mr S wasnt happy with this. But when he was unable to reach a resolution with V, he asked 
Halifax to refund the disputed amount. It refused. Briefly, the banks position was that under 
Vs terms and conditions, Mr S wasnt due a refund. Halifax repeated its position when Mr S 
complained. So, he then brought his complaint to our service.
 
One of our investigators looked into this matter. In brief, she didnt think Halifax had done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr S a refund. He didnt accept this. As the matter remains 
unresolved, this case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. First, Im very aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is at 
the heart of the matter here: has Halifax treated Mr S unreasonably by not giving him a 
refund?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
 
I would also make it clear that this complaint is against Halifax. As such, Im only looking at if 
Halifax, not V, has treated Mr S fairly and reasonably. The actions of V dont fall within my 
remit here.
 
As Mr S used his Halifax credit card to pay the deposit to V, the bank had two options to 
pursue a refund for him  chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(Section 75). A bank would usually look at chargeback first.
 
A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes can be resolved between card 
issuers, such as Halifax, and merchants, such as V. These disputes are dealt with under the 
relevant card scheme rules. The card scheme here is Mastercard. In certain circumstances, 
this process provides a way for Halifax to ask V to give Mr S a refund. This would include 
where goods or services arent supplied.
 
A chargeback isnt a consumer right. It doesnt guarantee a refund. Instead, its a process 
run entirely by the scheme provider under the rules that the provider sets. I would point out 
that Halifax is under no obligation to submit a chargeback. But I would consider it good 
practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable 
prospect of success.
 
Halifax didnt raise a chargeback. But I dont think this means the bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say this because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of a 
chargeback request being successful. Thats because the cancellation terms and conditions 
of Mr Ss booking with V are quite clear. I can see this states that the €5,000 booking fee is 
non-refundable.
 
I can also see that when Mr S told V he wanted to cancel his booking, it told him it would 
revert to the terms and conditions of his booking. In the event, as a gesture of goodwill, V 
relaxed this position and agreed to refund half of Mr Ss booking fee. If Halifax had raised a 
chargeback against V, I think its likely it wouldnt have been successful as no refund was 
due, as set out in Vs terms and conditions.
 
I know Mr S has referred to the guidance from the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) 
around the return of non-refundable deposits. Ive considered this guidance. It makes it 
clear, as Halifax has also pointed out, that this is guidance and ultimately, only a court can 
decide how the law applies in each case. With this in mind, I can understand why Halifax 
didnt raise a chargeback for Mr S. Taken all this into account, Im satisfied Halifax didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by not raising a chargeback against V.
 
Ill now move on to Section 75. This sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance 
provider, Halifax is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier, V. Those circumstances appear to be present here. Theres no suggestion of a 
misrepresentation here, nor does the available evidence indicate one. So, Ive thought about 
if theres been a breach of contract.
 
Similar to the above, the terms and conditions of Mr Ss booking are clear  the €5,000 
booking fee is stated as being non-refundable. It seems V complied with the contract rather 
than breached it, not withstanding agreeing to return half of the booking fee as a gesture of 
goodwill. When Halifax looked at Mr Ss request for a refund under Section 75, it came to the 
same position, and I can see why it did. So, Im also satisfied that the bank didnt act unfairly 
or unreasonably by not giving Mr S a refund under Section 75.
 
For completeness, Mr S has also stated he feels his contract with V was frustrated. I take 
this to mean within the legal meaning of frustration of contract. The courts have set out that 
contracts can only be considered to be frustrated where neither party could fulfil their 
obligations. As above, under Section 75, Mr S has a like claim against Halifax for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. If the contract was frustrated, it seems unlikely that there can have been a breach. In any event, this is something of a moot point given that I can 
understand why Halifax didnt think there was a breach of contract by V.
 
In summary, Im satisfied Halifax hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not giving Mr S a 
refund. Its explored both avenues for him without success. I really do understand Mr Ss 
strength of feeling here and appreciate the situation he found himself in. But, for the reasons 
Ive given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
  
This final decision ends the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. This 
means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
John Miles
Ombudsman