Page 1 of 6The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as L, has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QEL)
unfairly declined its business interruption insurance claim.
Ms S, one of the directors of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf. Ms S is also
represented in this complaint but for ease of reading, I will refer to L or Ms S throughout.
QEL is the insurer of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of its agent. As
QEL has accepted it is accountable for the actions of its agent, any reference to QEL
includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
L held business interruption insurance with QEL. L claimed on its policy after its business
was impacted by Covid-19 and the UK Governments response to the pandemic in March
2020.
QEL declined Ls claim. QEL considered whether there was cover under the B991  Bomb
Hoax or Unlawful Occupation endorsement in the policy. QEL said that the endorsement
provided cover where the premises could not be accessed due to a bomb hoax or unlawful
occupation and that the sole reason for the Governments restrictions was to protect the
public from injury or death. QEL said that was not the case here.
QEL also said that the High Court in The Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch
Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 (the FCA test case) had found that Covid-19 was
not an emergency within the vicinity, as the clause was intended to respond to local events.
QEL said that while the wording in the B991 endorsement wasnt the same as that
considered by the High Court, it thought it was relevant.
Unhappy with QELs response, L brought its complaint to our service. L also complained 
about the lack of response from QEL when it first made the claim. That part of the matter has
been dealt with separately and this decision only addresses the rejection of the claim and
whether that was fair and reasonable and in line with the policy terms.
One of our Investigators looked into Ls complaint and recommended it be upheld. She 
thought access to Ls premises had been prohibited by a public authority with the sole 
purpose of protecting the public from injury or death. She recommended that QEL reconsider 
the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
QEL didnt agree with our Investigator. In summary, it said:
DRN-4089199Page 2 of 6It accepted that the Government would be considered the relevant competent
authority and that the prohibition of access to the insureds premises has to be
ordered by a competent authority.
The prohibition of access would need to be due to a bomb hoax or unlawful
occupation. If thats not the case, the words bomb hoax and unlawful occupation
which are used multiple times within the endorsement would be entirely superfluous.
The prohibition of access to the premises was not with the sole purpose of preventing
the public from death or injury.
It is clear from the Governments announcement that the restrictions were introduced
to 1) protect the NHS; 2) slow the spread of Covid-19; and 3) reduce the number of
people needing hospital treatment.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was to me. I issued a provisional 
decision on the matter in March 2023. In my provisional decision I explained why I did not 
intend to uphold the complaint. I said: 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had 
an impact on Ls business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Both L and QEL agree that the part of the policy that is relevant to Ls claim is 
endorsement B991, which says:
B991 - Bomb Hoax or Unlawful Occupation -BPL CCOM 11
Under the Business Interruption "All Risks" Section, Additional Coverages, the
following is added:
Denial of Access - Death or Injury, Bomb Hoax or Unlawful Occupation
The Company will indemnify the Policyholder in respect of loss resulting from
interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of the relevant
competent authority prohibiting access to the Premises for the sole purpose of
protecting the public from death or injury subject to the Sum Insured stated in the
Schedule.
The Company will not be liable for losses resulting from interruption of or
interference with the Business for periods of less than 2 hours.
All of the General Policy Conditions Exclusions limitations and terms of the Policy
shall otherwise continue to apply to this the Policy and this endorsement.
For this endorsement to provide cover there would need to be:
1. a loss resulting from the interruption or interference with Ls business,
2. in consequence of the relevant competent authority prohibiting access to Ls
Premises, and
3. this prohibition of access would have to be for the sole purpose of protecting the 
public from death or injury.
It is accepted that L likely experienced a loss as its business was interrupted by a
competent authority which prohibited access to its premises through the regulations 
that were introduced in March 2020. What is in dispute is whether access to Ls 
premises was prohibited with the sole intention of protecting the public from death or 
injury. Having considered the points both parties have made I intend to find that QEL 
acted reasonably in declining Ls claim under this endorsement. I will explain why.Page 3 of 6The starting point to interpreting a contract is to identify what a reasonable person, 
with all the background knowledge which would have been available to them, would 
have understood the clause to mean when entering into the contract. This includes 
considering factors such as the natural and ordinary meaning of the clause, the 
contract as a whole, the facts and circumstances known or assumed by the parties at 
the time they entered into the contract, and commercial common sense.
I have considered QELs point that as the heading has the title B991 - Bomb Hoax or
Unlawful Occupation then the prohibition of access would need to be as a result of a 
bomb hoax or unlawful occupation only, otherwise the words would be superfluous. 
Im not particularly persuaded by this.
There is nothing in the policy to indicate that headings are to be ignored or that they 
are determinative of the relevant clauses meaning. And, while I think the heading 
can indicate the meaning of a clause, I dont think it can override the remainder of the 
clause.
There are also different versions of the heading within the clause and the policy 
schedule. All versions include the words bomb hoax or unlawful occupation 
however, one also includes death or injury. I think that there is a clear indication 
from the heading that the clause is intended to cover bomb hoaxes or unlawful 
occupation, but the clause is drafted in a way that this is not all that is covered. I do 
not agree with QELs point that the words bomb hoax or unlawful occupation are 
superfluous if the clause is interpreted as covering other things which could cause 
death or injury. It seems to me that bomb hoax or unlawful occupation are examples 
of events which could cause injury or death but the fact death or injury is stated in 
title means that other events that might cause death and injury are also covered.
However, even if Im wrong I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of Ls 
claim. Thats because I dont believe that access to Ls premises was prohibited with 
the sole intention of protecting the public from injury or death. Ill explain why.
Given that the endorsement refers to the sole cause I think that access would need 
to have been prohibited only to protect the public from injury or death and not in 
combination with any other reasons.
Neither injury nor death are defined in the policy. There is a definition of bodily injury  
in the policy which includes disease and illness as well as injury or death. However, 
QEL havent applied the policy definition of bodily injury to this endorsement. This 
indicates to me that that QEL didnt intend this clause to apply to disease and illness. 
The fact that the definition sets out that it includes disease and illness also indicates 
to me that QEL intended to draw a distinction between the words illness and injury 
otherwise it wouldnt have needed to include illness in the definition of a bodily injury. 
As injury is not defined in the policy I have considered what a reasonable 
policyholder would consider the word to mean when entering into the contract. 
In considering what a reasonable policyholder would believe this to mean when 
entering into the contract I dont think that the reasonable policyholder would 
consider that injury is synonymous with illness. I think an injury would generally be 
considered to be physical or psychological damage (and often caused by a sudden 
event) whereas an illness is a disease or sickness and would be something that 
causes a physiological abnormality or disorder. So, I dont think the disease Covid-19 
would reasonably be considered an injury. Page 4 of 6However, even if I accepted that injury was synonymous with illness, I also dont 
think that the restrictions were put in place solely to protect the public from injury or 
death.
L was required to close from 23 March 2020 by The Health Protection (Coronavirus,
Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020. On 23 March 2020 the UK Prime Minister 
said that restrictions were being introduced to halt the spread the disease, to protect 
the NHS and to save lives.
I have taken into account that the regulations say that they are in response to the 
serious and imminent threat to public health. While its clear that one of the aims of 
the restrictions was to protect the public from death (save lives), I think that the 
reference to halting the spread of the disease and protecting the NHS indicates that 
the restrictions were also put in place for other reasons.
In reaching this conclusion I have considered the Coronavirus Act 2020. The 
overview of which says:
The purpose of the Coronavirus Act is to enable the Government to respond
to an emergency situation and manage the effects of the COVID-19
pandemic. A severe pandemic will lead to a reduced workforce, increased
pressure on health services and death management processes. The Act
contains temporary measures designed to either amend existing legislative
provisions or introduce new statutory powers which are designed to mitigate
these impacts.1
While it was the Health Regulations which required Ls business to close, I think the
overview of the Coronavirus Act sets out that the Government considered that the 
pandemic would lead to a reduced workforce and increased pressure on the health 
services and death management [processes].
I think that at that point in time that restrictions were introduced the focus was on 
protecting the NHS and it was the danger of capacity there being reached that was 
the driving factor of the restrictions in the end  as opposed to actually directly 
preventing illness/deaths.
Therefore, I think QEL acted reasonably in finding that the Governments actions 
which prohibited access to Ls premises werent solely to protect the public from 
injury or death.
For this reason, I do not think QEL acted unreasonably in declining Ls claim.
I know that L will be disappointed with this decision, having already received a
recommendation from the Investigator that the complaint should be upheld. However,
both parties are entitled to appeal to an ombudsman - the final stage in our process -
and it is my role to review the matter afresh and make my own decision as to the
appropriate outcome. It is only an Ombudsmans decision that is binding. Having 
received this complaint, I am required to determine it by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And having 
considered everything carefully, I have provisionally determined that the complaint 
should not be upheld for the reasons set out above.Page 5 of 6Responses to my provisional decision
QEL has not responded to my provisional decision. 
L has responded and does not accept my provisional decision. It has made some further 
comments which Ive summarised below: 
As I agreed that the heading did not limit the cover the only point of contention was 
whether the lockdown was to save lives. 
Our investigator referred to the Governments words on 23 March 2020 which were, 
To put it simply, if too many people become seriously unwell at one time, the NHS 
will be unable to handle it - meaning more people are likely to die, not just from 
Coronavirus but from other illnesses as well. So its vital to slow the spread of the 
disease. Because that is the way we reduce the number of people needing hospital 
treatment at any one time, so we can protect the NHSs ability to cope - and save 
more lives. Our investigator thought it was clear from this that the sole purpose of 
the restrictions was to save lives. L said it would be unrealistic to overturn this on 
review.
It is not reasonable to base my decision on political slogans. This is because at that 
time marketing advisors had told the Government that slogans which included three 
phrases had more impact with the public. 
At the time of the restrictions people did not leave their homes due to the fear of 
catching Covid-19. It must follow that the sole reason for the restrictions was to save 
lives and the other parts of the slogan were there to support that. 
The Supreme Court in the FCA test case said that Covid-19 was an emergency 
which was likely to endanger life. It is clear that the closure of Ls premises was to 
prevent danger to life and so to prevent death. 
My view that the lockdown was not to save lives is open to challenge, particularly as 
the Investigator formed the opposite view. Where there is ambiguity most courts 
would resolve the dispute against the party that drafted the contract using the 
principle of contra proferentem. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to change my provisional findings. I do not intend to 
repeat the findings of my provisional decision but will comment on what I believe are the 
central points L has raised in response. 
L said that the only point of contention was whether the Government introduced restrictions 
to save lives. However, because the clause requires the prohibition of access to be for the 
sole purpose of protecting the public from injury or death, I believe that the relevant 
question for me to consider is whether it was reasonable for QEL to conclude that it was not 
the only reason. Thats because, my role is not to decide exactly why the Government 
introduced restrictions but rather whether QELs decision to decline Ls claim was fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
I have considered Ls point about relying on the wording within a political slogan. In my 
provisional decision I also referred to the overview of the Coronavirus Act 2020 which I think 
indicates that the Government was concerned with other factors as well as saving lives. 
Moreover, the speech from the Prime Minister on 23 March 2020 which our Investigator 
quoted, also refers to protecting the NHSs ability to cope. As I believe there were multiple 
reasons for the Government restrictions, I do not agree with Ls assertion that the publics Page 6 of 6fear of catching Covid-19 means that it must follow that the sole reason for the restrictions 
was to save lives. 
In my provisional decision, I said that the focus of the Government was on protecting the 
NHS. However, I now accept that the messages from the Government at that time indicate 
that it was also focused on saving lives. But that does not change the outcome of my 
decision because for this policy to provide cover the restrictions would need to be for the 
sole purpose of protecting the public from injury or death. And as Ive explained, I do not 
think that is the case here
I also do not think that the outcome of my decision is inconsistent with the findings of the 
Supreme Court. While Covid-19 might be an emergency which was likely to endanger life, 
for the reasons set out above, I dont think it follows that the Government only imposed 
restrictions to save lives.
I do not believe that me reaching a different outcome to our Investigator means that the 
contract is ambiguous. Thats because I think the policy wording is clear that the sole reason 
for the prohibition of access needs to be to protect the public from injury or death and a 
difference in view on whether the insured event occurred does not change the clarity of the 
wording of the clause. Our service is designed as such that, while an Investigator can give 
an initial view, both parties have the right to ask an Ombudsman to consider matters afresh, 
which is what I have done.  
I recognise the strength of feeling that the closure of Ls business was for the sole purpose 
of protecting the public from injury or death. However, as I have said above, my role is to 
decide whether QELs decision to decline Ls claim was fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. The Governments reasons for introducing the restrictions which led to the 
prohibition of access to Ls business might be debateable but I have to reach a decision on 
what I think is most likely to have happened, as well as what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. I think it is most likely that the Government made its decision to 
impose restrictions for more reasons than just to protect the public from death. It follows that 
I dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman