DRN-3780060
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
declined their claim on their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
References to NFU Mutual includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have a home insurance policy with NFU Mutual. The policy includes LEI 
cover. Mrs W requested assistance following a dispute with her neighbour.
A firm of solicitors Ill call S were instructed by NFU Mutual to conduct an initial assessment 
of prospects in order to determine whether Mrs Ws case had any legal merit. Unfortunately, 
S concluded the case did not have sufficient prospects.
Mrs W  with the help of another firm of solicitors - obtained counsel's opinion which 
estimated a 60% chance of success.
When S reviewed the opinion, it said that the opinion was actually for the defence of an 
application by her neighbour for a defined boundary which was to be heard in the First Tier 
Tribunal rather than for a trespass claim (which they had assessed).
NFU said Mr and Mrs W were not covered for an application regarding a defined boundary.
In addition to the declined claim, Mr and Mrs W complained about their frustration that on 
multiple occasions they attempted to call NFU and were met with silence or long protracted 
hold times. This culminated in Mrs W being promised a call back from a Senior Customer 
Service Advisor, which unfortunately did not materialise.
When Mrs W complained to NFU it did concede they had received poor service but said the 
claim was not covered.
After Mr and Mrs W came to this service NFU offered them £400 for the poor service and 
said that its agents would cover the cost of Counsels opinion. 
The investigator thought Mr and Mrs W werent covered for the application to define the 
boundary. She thought NFUs offer regarding the poor handling of the claim was a fair 
response to the complaint and didnt recommend anything further.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They said that they are defending a claim from someone 
attempting to take their land by using the land tribunal process to redefine a totally different 
shaped boundary on and across what is very clearly their own land.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been a very stressful time for Mr and Mrs W. Boundary disputes can be 
particularly unpleasant as when we are at home  which should be a restful safe place - we 
have a constant reminder of the complaint.
When Mr and Mrs W initially brought their claim to NFU Mutual they told NFU about the 
boundary dispute and about damage to a fence. Following Ss negative assessment of the 
prospects of success of the claim NFU withdrew cover. Based on what I have seen I dont 
think NFU was wrong to withdraw cover. Although the assessment was made by a paralegal 
she was supervised by a named solicitor. It appears to be well reasoned and logical 
assessment of the prospects of success and therefore I cannot say that it was unreasonable 
of NFU to rely on it and to withdraw cover.
After Ss assessment Mr and Mrs Ws neighbour made an application to the Land Registry 
regarding the boundary. 
Mr and Mrs W spoke to NFU again. NFU advised that they could obtain Counsels opinion 
and then NFU would look at the claim again. Mr and Mrs W did obtain Counsels opinion and 
he concluded: 
Mrs [W] does have reasonable prospects of success in her defence to Mr [J]s claim for a 
defined boundary that is proceeding in the First Tier Property Tribunal. It is my opinion more 
likely than not that his claim with fail.
Counsels opinion therefore isnt covering the same dispute that S had considered didnt 
have prospects of success. Ss opinion concerned an action for trespass and damage. 
Counsels opinion is regarding a defence to a boundary claim at the First Tier Property 
Tribunal.
NFU explained to Mr and Mrs W that defending the boundary claim in the First Tier Property 
Tribunal isnt covered under their policy.
The policy has a property protection section which provides:
What is insured
A civil dispute relating to an INSURED PERSON'S HOME or SECONDARY HOME, or 
personal possessions, that an INSURED PERSON owns, or are responsible for, following;
a) an event which causes physical damage to such property but the amount in dispute must 
be more than £100;
b) a legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with an INSURED PERSON'S use or 
enjoyment of an INSURED PERSON'S land, or some right over, or in connection with it);
c) a trespass.
Provided that an INSURED PERSON must have established the legal ownership or right to 
the land that is the subject of the dispute.
Defending a claim in the First Tier Property Tribunal doesnt fit within any of the categories 
covered as set out in the policy. Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor says: "The issue here is that you 
are clear on the position of the boundary and the case handler seems centred on Mr [Js] 
claim which is to establish the boundary, but you are defending and not establishing a 
boundary you are simply protecting your land from being taken. This point seems 
overlooked." I dont agree. The main issue for me is whether or not what Mr and Mrs W are 
seeking to defend is covered under the policy. And it isnt. The First Tier Tribunal is not being asked to look at physical damage. It is not looking at legal nuisance. And it is not looking at 
trespass. It is, as Mr and Mrs Ws Counsel says, In my assessment, this is not a case about 
adverse possession by either side. It is truly a case of deciding where the boundary is. And 
as this is a case looking at determining a boundary they are not covered under the policy 
they have paid for.
I said in the paragraph above that the main issue for me is whether Mr and Mrs W are 
covered. I do also need to consider the poor service they received. This has been accepted 
by NFU and it has sent Mr and Mrs W a cheque for £400. It has also agreed with its agents 
that its agents will reimburse the costs [Mr and Mrs W] have incurred in obtaining the 
Counsels opinion. I think this is fair compensation for the stress it has caused and for the 
lack of clarity regarding what the Counsels opinion needed to cover. I appreciate everything 
Mr and Mrs W have endured since their dispute with their neighbour began but I think that 
most of this was caused by the dispute rather than NFUs poor handling and so in the 
circumstances I think £400 is fair and I wont be asking NFU to do anything more. 
I asked Mr and Mrs W to let me know how much they spent in obtaining the Counsels 
opinion on the prospects of success assessment. They have sent me some information but 
have not been able to provide everything I need to set out an exact figure  this is because 
they would need to consult their solicitor and they were concerned about extra costs being 
incurred. I will therefore leave it to NFU and Mr and Mrs W to agree the exact figure for the 
costs incurred by Mr and Mrs W for obtaining the Counsels opinion for the prospects of 
success assessment.
Putting things right
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited has already made an offer to 
pay £400 to settle the complaint and to pay the costs incurred by Mr and Mrs W in obtaining 
Counsels opinion on prospects of success. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited should reissue 
a cheque for £400 and reimburse the costs that Mr and Mrs W have incurred in obtaining the 
Counsels opinion for a prospects of success assessment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman