DRN-3195679
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Evo Payments International GmbH, 
Branch UK trading as BOI Payment Acceptance UK (Evo) didnt defend a chargeback on its 
behalf despite F completing all the necessary security checks before releasing the goods.
F is represented in bringing this complaint by its director, Mr F.
What happened
F is a merchant. In January 2020, F accepted three card not present (CNP) transactions for 
an order which was picked up by a courier. 
A few weeks later, three chargebacks for £1,241.83, £2,241.83 and £1,000 were raised 
against F and Evo wrote to F to ask for proof of sale to be provided to them within seven 
days.
F provided supporting documentation for one of the chargebacks, but Evo didnt defend the 
chargebacks as there wasnt enough evidence to prove that the rightful cardholder had 
received the goods. The rightful cardholder had made contact directly with F when they saw 
one of the transactions debit their account and F made Evo aware of this.
As the cardholder didnt authorise the transactions, Fs account was subsequently debited 
for the chargebacks. F complained to Evo, but they didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr F 
brought Fs complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into matters and said he didnt think Evo were presented with 
compelling evidence to defend the chargebacks. He noted that F had also accepted that the 
cardholder hadnt authorised the transactions. Our investigator said he didnt think it was fair 
to ask Evo to refund the chargebacks as they were not responsible for Fs loss.
Mr F was unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to look at Fs complaint, 
so it has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr F said F took the payment and released the goods in good faith having obtained an 
authorisation code from Evo. He said he didnt think it was fair for F to be out of pocket if Evo 
have provided an authorisation code. He said he thought the terms were unfair leaving F 
open to fraud and not protected.
F would like Evo to refund the transactions in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator and Ive explained my 
reasons below. 
Ill begin by explaining that Evo did not raise the chargebacks, these were raised by the 
cardholder in accordance with the Visa Dispute Rules. I cant intervene in the outcome of Fs 
dispute with the cardholder as this decision was made at arbitration by the card scheme and 
I have no powers to look at it. 
So, Im not going to make any findings on whether the chargebacks should have been raised 
or whether Fs defence should have been successful. What I can do is look at the actions of 
Evo and whether they acted fairly once the chargebacks were raised.
Card Not Present (CNP) transactions
Processing CNP transactions is not uncommon, but it does present a higher risk of a card 
being used fraudulently, as neither a signature nor a PIN have been used to verify the 
transaction as genuine. 
I can see that these risks are detailed in Article lll of the terms and conditions of Evos 
Payment Acceptance Agreement which were provided to F when they entered into the 
agreement in 2018. Section 3.1 states that the undertaking of CNP transactions by the 
merchant (F in this case) is solely at their own risk. So I cant say that Evo didnt make F 
aware that accepting CNP transactions carried risks that F would solely be responsible for.
Chargebacks
When a chargeback is raised, we would expect the merchant acquirer (Evo) to act in line 
with their terms and conditions to ensure the chargeback is handled correctly. I have 
therefore looked at what Evos chargeback policy says to confirm if this was followed. 
The terms and conditions of Fs agreement with Evo explain that the merchant undertakes 
CNP transactions at their own risk. It further states that the merchant will be fully liable for 
all Chargebacks (irrespective of the grounds for such Chargebacks) and the merchant will 
pay the full amount of the chargeback on demand from Evo.
In line with the rules of the card scheme, it is the responsibility of the merchant to provide 
compelling evidence to Evo for a chargeback to be defended. So I would expect to see 
evidence proving that the rightful cardholder did authorise the payments. 
However, in this case, despite F demonstrating that they carried out the relevant security 
checks by checking the security number on the back of the card and matching them to the 
correct house numbers and postcodes, I can see that the rightful cardholder contacted F to 
explain that the transaction was fraudulent. After which, F reported the matter to Action 
Fraud. 
As a result, Evo didnt have any grounds on which to defend the chargebacks. So, I cant say 
they treated F unfairly as it seems likely that any challenge would have been unsuccessful 
due to the evidence that the rightful cardholder hadnt authorised the payments.
Authorisation Code
I understand Mr F thinks its unfair for F to be out of pocket for these transactions as Evo 
provided F with an authorisation code. However, I must explain that unfortunately an 
authorisation code doesnt guarantee settlement of the transaction. Its purpose is to check 
that the card has not been reported lost or stolen and that there is enough money in the account to cover the purchase at the time the transaction takes place. A card may not be 
reported lost or stolen for some time after an authorisation code is issued. 
This information is detailed in Article ll Card Acceptance Section 2.3 of the terms and 
conditions. As such, I cannot say Evo have treated F unfairly here as the authorisation code 
was valid at the time it was issued. 
Conclusion
As Ive explained, I dont have the power to intervene in the outcome of Fs dispute with the 
cardholder. My role is to establish if Evo treated F fairly once the chargeback was raised and 
to consider whether Evo were in any way responsible for Fs loss. 
Unfortunately, having reviewed the circumstances of the disputed transactions, in 
conjunction with the terms and conditions of the agreement between Evo and F, I cant say 
that Evo have treated F unfairly or that they have in any way contributed to Fs loss.
Im genuinely sorry to see that F has lost money as a result of this fraud, but Im afraid I cant 
say that this is because of anything Evo did, or failed to do, in respect of the chargeback 
process or the authorisation of the transactions.
I know Mr F will be disappointed by my decision, but I wont be asking Evo to take any action 
in respect of this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F, on behalf of 
F, to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman