DRN-3966073
The complaint
Miss T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money paid from her bank 
account by direct debit.
What happened
In late 2022, Miss T contacted Lloyds and asked it to recredit her account with money that 
shed paid to her local council in 2019. Miss T said the council had taken the payments when 
it shouldnt have. Miss T asked Lloyds to refund almost £850.
Miss T says that when she first spoke to Lloyds about the payments, it told her the money 
would be returned to her account. But after investigating, Lloyds declined her request to 
recredit money under the direct debit guarantee. 
After Miss T complained, Lloyds said that the direct debits were in her name. Lloyds said 
that some of the direct debit payments to the council were returned as unpaid in 2019, so 
Miss T would have been notified of these. Lloyds pointed out that Miss T doesnt appear to 
have queried the payments at the time. 
Lloyds did pay Miss T £10 to apologise for giving her contradictory information about its 
decision to decline her direct debit guarantee claim. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She thought 
Lloyds had reviewed Miss Ts request but due to how far the payments went back and as 
Miss T hadnt shown there was an error, the investigator didnt think it was unreasonable of 
Lloyds to reject her request to recredit the direct debit payments. The investigator thought 
Lloyds compensation payment was fair.
Miss T is unhappy with the investigation outcome. She points out theres no time limit on 
when she can claim money back. So, the fact that the mistake didnt come to light at the time 
isnt relevant. Miss T wants to know why the investigator is insinuating that her claim isnt 
genuine. Miss T says theres no obligation on her to go back to the council. Miss T doesnt 
see why she should hold things up for months by doing so and thinks Lloyds should 
approach the council.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this where one party is saying something different to the other, I reach my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available 
evidence and decide what I think is most likely to have happened. 
The direct debit guarantee says:
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your 
bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount 
paid from your bank or building society..
The direct debit guarantee allows account holders to receive an immediate refund from their 
bank in some, but not all circumstances. The right to a refund is not absolute or automatic. 
And I dont consider the direct debit guarantee is intended as a means of recovering historic 
payments years later or for dealing with contractual disputes.
I appreciate Miss Ts point that the direct debit guarantee doesnt have a time limit but if she 
had concerns about the payments, I wouldve expected her to raise those with Lloyds much 
sooner than she has. Most genuine errors come to light fairly quickly  particularly as some 
of the direct debit payments made from Miss Ts bank account were returned as unpaid back 
in 2019. When a mistake comes to light at the time, I might expect the bank to refund money 
immediately. But here, over three years has passed without the payments being challenged. 
When Miss T contacted Lloyds in December 2022, she said that she should not have been 
paying council tax as she was entitled to council tax benefits. And that this was the reason 
why no more council tax payments were taken since November 2019. As Ive said above, 
the direct debit guarantee cannot be used to address contractual disputes. If its the case 
that Miss T was entitled to a council tax discount or exemption in 2019, I think it would be for 
her to take this up with her local council. Based on the evidence, I dont think Lloyds was 
wrong to reject Miss Ts request to refund the payments made. 
In relation to the service Miss T received from Lloyds during her claim, I think the amount 
Lloyds paid was reasonable, so I dont require it to take further action in response to her 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman