DRN-1666695
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out the PPI in 1997 during a process that neither party can confirm.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have any documentation for the sale of the PPI, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. But this does make the complaint more difficult to decide. So in 
reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs G say they didnt know that PPI had been added to the mortgage account  
therefore it was added without their knowledge or consent.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Gs recollection 
of events has faded. From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, PPI was 
usually presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence that the adviser deviated from the 
usual process on this occasion. Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs G have said but, on 
balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G decided to buy the policy, knowing 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Although BoS has no details of the sale, it has treated it as an advised sale, which holds 
them to a higher standard. Thats because, in advising (or recommending them) to take out 
the policy, it needed to ensure that it met Mr and Mrs G needs. And from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs G would both have received sick pay from their employers. But the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr and Mrs G would 
have received full pay for. Mr and Mrs G may have had some savings  although it appears 
these may have been earmarked for use as the deposit on the house. Regardless of this, 
having the policy would have meant that they could have retained these or used them to 
cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Mr and Mrs G have said that 
family would have helped. But presumably asking other people to pay your mortgage for you would be a last resort. And other people cant always be relied upon as their circumstances 
can change.
Mr and Mrs G say they never took out PPI on anything. But a mortgage is a very different 
product to something like a credit card or loan. It is a significant financial commitment and 
the consequences of defaulting on a mortgage can be very serious. So it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr and Mrs G had an interest in protecting their repayments.
I think that Mr and Mrs G would have known something about the policy - that it would have 
covered their mortgage repayments if they were unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think they would have bought it without knowing anything at 
all about it.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs G werent affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs G had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy 
it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So 
they are no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong. So there is nothing 
that BoS needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman