DRN-4032682
The complaint
Mr B complains that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as PrePay Solutions (PPS) 
blocked his attempted payments, locked him out of his online account and told him wrong 
information.
What happened
Mr B topped up a pre-paid card in preparation for an overseas trip. He says he tried to use 
the card at the hotel, but this was rejected as a contactless transaction and then a chip and 
personal identification number (PIN) transaction, meaning that Mr B was unable to check 
into his hotel, so he tried to withdraw cash from a cash machine, but this was rejected also. 
Mr B says that PPS customer service was shut, so he had to put the hotel payment on 
someone elses card. Mr B spoke with PPS the following morning who told him the chip had 
failed and they asked him if he brought his emergency card, which was then activated. 
Mr B says he used their application (app), but it locked him out, so he didnt know how much 
money was in his account. He says he phoned PPS to ask about his transactions to see 
which ones were pending and cleared, to be told he had £27 to use, but he went into a 
restaurant and only had £15 left and the transaction was declined twice. He says he was told 
incorrect fees by staff as he was told it was €1.75 per transaction but it was actually €3.75 
per transaction. Mr B made a complaint to PPS.
PPS did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said the payment attempts were unsuccessful 
due to their fraud regulations, but as this involves their internal process, they are unable to 
discuss the details of this. They said Mr B would only lock himself out of his account if the 
incorrect passcode had been entered. They said they have not had similar reports of this 
issue. PPS said Mr B was provided his balance of €28.97 on 3 October 2022, but then he 
made two transactions for €8.65 and €3.20, which brought his balance to €17.12. Mr B 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said PPS acted in line with their internal 
procedures when the transactions failed due to fraud regulations, which they have a duty to 
do to protect their customers. He said PPS did not make an error when further transactions 
were declined for insufficient funds. He said PPS have a 24 hour customer service line 
where Mr B couldve obtained the correct advice to activate his additional card sooner. Mr B 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the customer services were not 
open until 9am the following day and he wanted to know why his card was restricted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PPS have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts safe and prevent them 
being victims of fraud. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate payments due to 
security concerns. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt 
necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. PPS are not obliged to tell our service or Mr B 
their security processes, although they have told us on this occasion the reason why the 
attempted transactions were unsuccessful. Im unable to disclose these to Mr B for security 
reasons, which I know will bitterly disappoint him, but I can confirm that PPS acted in line 
with their terms and conditions in doing so.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about the customer services opening hours. But there 
was a 24 hour customer services line available to him. I know Mr B has disputed this 
previously, but it is shown in the terms and conditions he sent us under section 23.1 and it 
says Customer Services lines are open 24 hours a day. So this option would have been 
available to Mr B to activate his additional card sooner and it was customer services who 
rang him in response to his email he sent them. 
PPS have said that Mr Bs account would have been restricted on the app if he had entered 
the passcode incorrectly. I know Mr B strongly disputes this, but PPS have confirmed there 
have been no other similar reports of this issue. So Ive seen no evidence that would lead 
me to conclude PPS have made an error here. 
I considered what Mr B has said about the fees. But these are shown in the terms and 
conditions of the account (section 14). Fees can be higher than the standard fees based on 
local operators charging additional fees. As this would be outside of PPS control, then Im 
unable to say they have done anything wrong here. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said about what he was told about the balance of his account. 
Ive looked at the email he was sent, and he was told that he had €28.97. But Ive also been 
provided information that shows he made a payment at 11:48am for €8.65 and 15:09pm for 
€3.20, which brought his balance to €17.12. So while I am sorry to read the impact of what 
happened on Mr B when he was unable to pay for his hotel at the time, Im unable to say 
PPS made any errors, so it follows I dont require them to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman