DRN-4411309
The complaint
Mr M complains HSBC UK Bank Plc took too long to send him a card.
What happened
Mr M cancelled his card through his mobile application (app) on 29 May 2023. Mr M 
contacted HSBC on 21 June 2023 as he hadnt received his replacement card.
HSBC said no new card had been ordered. HSBC ordered a card for Mr M and offered him 
£15 for the inconvenience of not having a card.
Mr M thought he should be compensated more and complained to HSBC. HSBC responded 
to say there was an error with his app which meant he couldnt order a new card.
HSBC said Mr M should have seen a message telling him to call in for a new card. HSBC 
also increased its offer of compensation by £75.
Mr M thought this offer was too low as well, and brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into things and thought HSBCs offer was fair.
The investigator thought Mr M had waited a long time to chase HSBC about his lack of card. 
And the investigator thought Mr M likely had another way to pay for things as there wasnt a 
large amount of spending once he got his card.
Mr M didnt agree, and said hed be closing all his accounts and telling other people to do the 
same. Mr M also said hed be complaining to the chief executive of HSBC and taking some 
legal advice.
Mr M said nothing like this had ever happened in his long association with HSBC and £90 
was not enough to compensate him fairly. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres little dispute about what happened here. HSBC acknowledges no new card was 
ordered when Mr M cancelled his card.
HSBC says there was a known error in the app and Mr M should have seen a warning 
message. But HSBC cant show this message or be certain the message was displayed.
Regardless of the message, Mr M didnt have a card for some considerable time. Mr M says 
he was told the card would take five working days to arrive.
But Mr M waited almost three times as long before contacting HSBC. In the circumstances, I 
think it would have been reasonable for Mr M to contact HSBC sooner than he did.
I wouldnt expect HSBC to proactively check a new card was ordered after one was 
cancelled. Because of this, I dont think HSBC knew Mr M was waiting for a new card until 
he contacted it in June.
Once HSBC knew Mr M was still waiting for a new card it quickly ordered one and Mr Ms 
since received it. I dont think I can say HSBC should have realised sooner a new card 
hadnt been ordered.
But HSBC should have allowed Mr M to order a new card through his app or made it clear 
no new card had been ordered and Mr M would need to call in. I cant be certain the lack of 
ordered card was made clear to Mr M, so I think its reasonable HSBC compensate him.
Looking at Mr Ms statements, he uses his card for day-to-day spending so it must have 
been inconvenient not to have a card. But Mr M waited a long time to chase up his new card, 
so I dont think Mr M was inconvenienced to a great degree by not having his card.
Had Mr M experienced severe inconvenience by not having his card Id have expected him 
to chase HSBC much sooner than he did.
Overall, I think HSBCs offer is fair. Theres been some confusion about the offer HSBC 
made, it initially offered £15 then increased this by a further £75. In its submissions to this 
service HSBC said it was offering £100.
HSBCs confirmed this £100 offer is open to Mr M, and I think this is a fair offer.
Mr Ms said hes going to close all his accounts and get legal advice. As an impartial service 
I cant comment too much on this, but Mr M is free to close his accounts if he wants to. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr M £100 to 
compensate him for the delay in receiving his card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman