DRN-3608636
The complaint
Mr F, representing the estate of his late mother Mrs F, complains that National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I) took too long to identify and confirm bonds it held in her name and with 
its service and processes around this
What happened
Mr F had a lasting Power of Attorney for his mother until she passed away in April 2020. He 
contacted NS&I on his mothers behalf prior to her passing to enquire about the situation 
with any premium bonds she held, but NS&I couldnt respond to him at this time. After her 
passing, Mr F again contacted NS&I to notify them of this and to ask to change her name on 
any premium bonds, along with updating the address it held and confirming the details of 
any bonds held in her name.
Later on in June 2020, NS&I responded to Mr F to ask him to complete a repayment form. 
Mr F responded in September 2020 with what he thought to be the relevant holders number 
and serial numbers of the bonds he was aware of. NS&I confirmed the serial numbers of 
several bonds in Mrs Fs name and that there were no outstanding prizes under her holding 
number.
After this point, there were a number of exchanges between Mr F and NS&I about the bonds 
that were held for his late mothers. Mr F says he sent upwards of 18 letters in an attempt to 
clarify the situation. 
Eventually, NS&I responded to Mr F to explain the position with the various bonds. NS&I 
said that because the details werent an exact match between Mrs Fs different bonds, these 
were recorded with separate reference numbers. This had meant that NS&I wasnt always 
able to locate these when Mr F first asked. NS&I explained that it had no further holdings in 
Mrs Fs name and that all relevant holdings had been amalgamated in Mr Fs name.
Mr F was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think that NS&I had done anything wrong here  they said that NS&I had now demonstrated 
that it had done a full search of its systems for any further bonds for the late Mrs F. They 
said that we couldnt tell NS&I to change its systems and couldnt see any basis on which 
they could tell NS&I to compensate the estate, where there had been no financial loss. They 
also noted that as Mr F was acting as an executor, we couldnt award him compensation for 
any impact this had on him as an individual, or in his role as an executor.
Mr F disagreed, saying (in summary) that he was an NS&I customer too and that he wanted 
reassurance this wasnt going to happen to him or his beneficiaries. He still couldnt 
understand how this could have happened with such a distinctive surname. He remained 
unhappy with how NS&I had investigated this and had concerns with how NS&Is systems 
and procedures would impact other people in similar circumstances. So the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that I understand Mr Fs concerns in a wider sense about NS&Is systems 
and procedures and how its approached this situation. But my decision here has to be 
focused on the individual circumstances of this complaint he brings on behalf of the late 
Mrs Fs estate. Its not for us to criticise NS&Is systems or procedures in a wider, more 
general sense. 
Nor is it for me to consider how these may impact other customers (such as Mr F himself) in 
the future. Instead, I have to focus on this particular complaint made on behalf of his late 
mothers estate and reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
For the purposes of this decision, I cant consider any impact on Mr F in his personal 
capacity  including in his capacity as an executor.
Mr F has provided detailed submissions to this service which make clear the inconvenience 
and frustration he will have experienced in dealing with this situation. My decision wont go 
into the same level of detail as he has though. That doesnt mean I havent considered all of 
the information he and NS&I have provided  I have. Its just that my decision here will focus 
on what I think to be the key issues here, in line with our role as a quick and informal service.
Having considered all the information from both sides, its clear that this situation went on for 
some time. I think Mr F was clear with what he wanted when he first contacted NS&I after his 
mothers passing. He just wanted to update the details NS&I held and for confirmation of any 
bonds and winnings held in his late mothers name. Thats a reasonable request and Mr F 
gave NS&I some information to be able to start doing that.
Unfortunately what happened after that became an extended exchange relating to holder 
numbers and bond serial numbers. At times it looks like Mr F was understandably confused 
by what NS&I was telling him. But equally  NS&I seems to have been confused by some of 
what Mr F was telling it. Both sides were quoting various numbers, some of which were 
bonds in Mrs Fs name, but others werent. 
NS&Is requests for information from Mr F seem to have been made to try and help it find the 
information Mr F wanted. But, ultimately Mr Fs request on behalf of Mrs Fs estate was a 
simple one  he just wanted to know the details of Mrs Fs holdings with it and he gave it a 
reasonable amount of information to do that. 
NS&I is the expert in its own systems and I think its fair to say that it could have been more 
pragmatic here and done more to give Mr F the information he wanted sooner. NS&I has 
accepted as much and said to this service that it should have located some of the bonds 
much sooner than it did, based on the information Mr F provided. Its not helpful that it took 
NS&I until the complaint was referred to this service to say this  as its final response letter 
to Mr F suggested that it had dealt with things correctly.
Eventually, NS&I ended up confirming the late Mrs Fs holdings, bonds and winnings. NS&I 
has shown this service that it has performed searches of its systems to identify any further 
bonds or holdings in the late Mrs Fs name. So the situation as it stands is that NS&I has 
now done what Mr F first wanted  albeit several months after he first asked it to do so.So then I have to decide whether NS&I should do any more here to put things right. Our 
investigator has let Mr F know that NS&I has made an offer of compensation to him in his 
own right  which isnt something I can consider as a part of this complaint brought by the 
late Mrs Fs estate. 
I can see how frustrated Mr F was by the investigation NS&I did into these issues though. In 
particular with a particular member of staff and what they told him in their letters responding 
to his complaint. As Ive said, some of that has been contradicted by what NS&I later said to 
this service  but I cant say this had an impact on the estate that I can fairly expect NS&I to 
compensate it for.
So, while I can see areas where NS&I could have dealt with things better, overall I cant 
reasonably require it to pay Mrs Fs estate compensation where its not clear that this 
situation caused the estate any financial loss. The late Mrs Fs estate, as an entity, cant 
suffer distress or upset. So I cant see that I can make an award of compensation on this 
basis either. 
With that in mind, I cant see that I can tell NS&I to take any further action even if it could 
have handled things better. I realise that this will be a disappointment to Mr F, who has put a 
lot of effort into dealing with this matter and has had to wait a long time for this decision. But 
I hope this decision is, at least, some reassurance that someone has looked into his 
concerns impartially.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman