DRN-3915834
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that she was given unsuitable advice by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
in October 2000. Mrs B believes she has been disadvantaged financially as a result of 
receiving the advice.
Mrs B is represented by a third party but for ease of reference in this decision I shall refer to 
Mrs B.
What happened
After the death of Mrs Bs mother, she inherited her mothers house and £5,000. She was 
advised to invest £5,000 into a stocks and shares ISA split equally between the Scottish 
Widows UK Growth Fund and the Worldwide Growth Fund. Mrs B says she was advised to 
invest the money at the wrong time in her life, only six months after her mothers death. She 
should have been given more time to overcome her grief.
Mrs B said the investments recommended to her were too high risk for a financially nave 
investor such as herself. Mrs B had wanted to keep her investments in place for at least five 
years but her personal circumstances changed, and she had to sell her investments in 2004.
Mrs B complained to Lloyds who responded. It didnt agree the complaint should be upheld. 
It said;
Mrs B had gone to the bank on more than one occasion with her husband and her 
personal and financial circumstances were recorded. And any recommendation 
would have taken into consideration any recent changes to Mrs Bs circumstances.
Mrs B was looking for a longer-term investment for the potential for capital growth 
with a medium attitude to risk.
Mrs B had been provided with all the relevant information and had signed to confirm 
it had been explained and she understood the risks and characteristics of the 
investments. She received the Scottish Widows funds guide and personal key 
features document, so she was able to make an informed decision.
Considering the origin of the funds, the level of risk was appropriate for Mrs Bs 
circumstances.
Our investigator who considered Mrs Bs complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
She thought six months after her mothers death was a reasonable amount of time to 
give Mrs B to consider what she wanted to do with her money.
She detailed Mrs Bs financial circumstances at the time and concluded that £5,000 
was invested and this left Mrs B with £10,792 in cash which she thought was enough 
for unplanned expenditure and emergencies.
Mrs B was prepared to invest for five years and the investigator thought the 
investment was suitable and didnt conflict with any planned future spend.
Just because Mrs B didnt have any investment experience didnt preclude her from 
taking some risk.
Mrs B was prepared to take a medium risk for the potential of capital growth.
If Mrs B had left her funds intact for the intended five years, she would have 
potentially obtained better returns. Just because the investment didnt perform well 
doesnt indicate the investment wasnt appropriate for her.
In response Mrs B explained the complaint was not about performance but the advice she 
had been given. She accepted that the UK Growth Fund could have been suitable, but the 
Worldwide Growth fund contained global equities with the risk level increased with further 
exposure to exchange risk. She asked for her complaint to be reconsidered or passed to an
ombudsman for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision concluding that the complaint should be upheld but I asked 
both parties to give me anything further they wanted me to consider before I issued my final 
decision. Heres what I said; 
Mrs Bs circumstances
Lloyds has given us a copy of the Financial Interview  Personal completed at the 
time of the sale in 2000. It does include details about Mrs Bs husbands 
circumstances but as the investment was in the sole name of Mrs B, its her 
circumstances alone I will be taking into account.
At the time of the advice Mrs B was 33 years of age, was married and owned her 
own home  the house she inherited from her mother  with her husband financed 
via a mortgage with £14,000 outstanding at a monthly cost of £88.24. She had been 
with her current employer for over 13 years and her planned retirement age was 60 
years. She had a defined benefit employee pension.
At the time Mrs B had £10,792 in her current account with savings of £103. Its 
recorded she wanted to invest £5,000 over the medium term for growth. She had an 
outstanding liability of £5,664 which she was repaying at £190 per month.
I asked for more information about Mrs Bs outstanding liability and whether she 
thought about paying that off with her funds rather than investing half of it. Mrs B told 
us she had accumulated some debts following a change in her personal 
circumstances. Those credit card debts were costly so were consolidated into the 
loan with an affordable repayment of £190. She was happy to continue with the loan 
rather than pay it off as the arrangement was working well.
In the investigators view letter, she concluded that Mrs B had a net disposable 
income per month of £412.76 but I dont think this is correct. This only took account 
of the monthly mortgage repayments and monthly repayment of £190 per month for 
her loan. We checked further with Mrs B who said she also had the usual utility 
outgoings, phone, life insurance, food, clothing, and car expenses etc. Her 
recollection was that after her monthly expenses she had a couple of hundred 
pounds at most. So, I have borne this in mind when considering this complaint and 
the overall affordability.
It was recommended that Mrs B commit £5,000 into a unit trust ISA which offered the 
opportunity of capital growth over the medium to long term. It was recorded that the 
fund choice/product agreed with Mrs Bs attitude to risk. It was recommended two 
lump sum investments of £2,500 each into the Scottish Widows UK Growth Fund and 
Worldwide Growth Fund.Mrs Bs attitude to risk
In the Financial Review Lloyds recorded that Mrs B was prepared to take a medium 
risk with her investment and she was looking for capital growth over the medium 
term. At that time Mrs B didnt hold any investments or have any investment 
experience.
Its not evident from the Financial Review or other point of sale documents how 
Lloyds came to the conclusion that Mrs B was a medium risk investor. I would expect 
to see some sort of evidence that the risk rating was explained to Mrs B taking into 
account her ability to understand investment risk and clarification of her experience 
or knowledge to understand the risk involved.
Clearly Mrs B was seeking advice because she didnt have the knowledge or 
experience to make an investment decision unaided. Lloyds needs to be able to 
demonstrate that it gave suitable advice taking into account Mrs Bs circumstances, 
understanding and knowledge after ascertaining her attitude to risk or that it was 
discussed whether Mrs B had the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risk involved.
We asked Lloyds about this. It told us of how its advisers would have gone about a 
risk assessment  it said a process that had to be strictly employed and which was 
checked by the advisers line manager. It told us the adviser would have introduced 
the funds guide at an initial interview and that the risks and rewards of stock market 
investment would have been explained as well as the different levels of risk and the 
importance of keeping enough capital back to cover short-term requirements.
The adviser would have explained Lloyds view on the stock markets and introduced 
the various unit trusts that could be invested into plus the risks and characteristics of 
each fund and which fund(s) would have met the customers attitude to risk. There 
would then be a second appointment where any further questions could have been 
asked and the choice of investment could have been amended or otherwise. The 
fund(s) chosen will have been agreed or not and recorded in the suitability letter sent 
to the customer.
Ive borne in mind that without any investment experience Mrs B would have totally 
reliant upon the advice given to her. Its recorded that her investment objective was 
for capital growth. And it might have been the case that Mrs B did want to explore the 
opportunity to make her money grow more than it would have done in savings.
But I havent seen sufficient documentary evidence about how Lloyds came to the 
conclusion that Mrs B was a medium risk investor. And Ive further borne in mind that 
because of the source of the funds these were relatively new to Mrs B  as a result of 
the inheritance from her late mother  and what she had done so far with the money 
by keeping it in a risk-free environment in the bank.
Overall, Im not satisfied Lloyds has provided sufficient information or evidence to 
show how Mrs Bs attitude to risk was assessed or what her investment objectives 
were. So, I have to take into account what is known about Mrs Bs circumstances and 
consider whether the investments recommended were suitable.
The adviceLloyds has given us a copy of the Scottish Widows Funds Guide from around the 
time of the sale. In that 20-page document it does have a section on risk ratings, and 
it categorised six from no risk to high risk. Mrs B was assessed to be prepared to 
accept a medium risk which was recorded as Investments primarily in UK stocks and 
shares, with some fixed interest securities and overseas investments. The UK 
Growth Fund and the Worldwide Growth Fund were chosen as suitable investments 
for Mrs B.
Mrs B has accepted that the UK Growth Fund wasnt necessarily unsuitable for her, 
but she doesnt accept that the Worldwide Growth Fund could be categorised as 
medium risk because of its overseas exposure and implicit currency risk.
However, Im currently of the opinion that a medium attitude to risk wasnt right for 
Mrs B at all. Im not sure the investments were affordable for her or that she had the 
capacity to accept a medium level of risk. Ill explain why.
In the investigators view letter, she concluded that after the investment of £5,000 
was made this left Mrs B with £10,792 in cash which she thought was enough to 
meet any unplanned for expenditure or emergences. However, I dont think this was 
correct. And Mrs B has confirmed to us she had a total sum of £10,792 and £5,000 of 
that was invested. So, this left her with a financial cushion of £5,792 for any 
unexpected costs or emergencies.
And in this particular case I note there was also the outstanding liability of £5,664 and 
I have considered what could have happened if Mrs Bs circumstances had 
unforeseeably changed, such as her being made redundant as an example. In that 
case Mrs B would lose her income and I cant see she had any spare capacity other 
than the £5,792 with which to make her monthly loan repayments and other essential 
outgoings such as her mortgage and household costs etc.
Theres nothing to show that it was suggested to Mrs B that she repay her loan rather 
than investing that sum. And even though Mrs B has told us the repayment of the 
loan was working well, there could have been the potential that it was recalled and in 
particular if Mrs B struggled with making the monthly repayments for whatever 
reason, in which case Mrs B would need to use the only cash savings she had to 
repay it. And which would have left her without any capital for other outgoings or 
emergency purposes she could have fallen back on other than the ISA investments 
which were exposed to medium risk stock market investments and the potential 
fluctuations in value in that level or risk.
I dont think the advice recommended was suitable for Mrs B. Because of her 
financial circumstances, I dont think Mrs B had the capacity to absorb any potential 
losses she could have incurred, and which were implicit in a medium risk investment.
Overall, and taking into account Mrs Bs circumstances and objectives at the time, I 
think the advice given meant her money was exposed to risks Im not persuaded she 
was willing or able to take if she had been properly advised. I havent seen sufficient 
evidence that the liability Mrs B had  and which was the same amount as exposed 
to medium risk investment  was sufficiently considered when giving Mrs B the 
advice to invest. I dont think Mrs B was left with sufficient contingency funds if 
something had unexpectedly changed in her circumstances. I am satisfied that the 
advice Mrs B was given in 2000 wasnt suitable for her taking account of her personal 
and financial circumstances that Ive already outlined.So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I am currently intending to 
uphold it. I think the advice wasnt suitable for Mrs B as I dont her financial position 
warranted as high an attitude to risk as medium risk.
To put the matter right I provisionally said that Lloyds should compare the performance of 
her investments with the average rate from fixed rate bonds from the date of investment to 
the dates they ceased to be held. I said this was suitable as it was the sort of investment 
return a consumer could have obtained with little risk to their capital. 
Lloyds didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said;
I was wrong to only consider Mrs Bs circumstances. It was joint advice and the 
paperwork was signed by Mrs B and her husband. 
The sale was made 22 years ago so it would be difficult for anybody to recall full 
details from the time and questioned Mrs Bs recollection of having a couple of 
hundred pounds left each month after expenditure. And the joint income was £1,691 
which after the monthly mortgage payment of £180 and the loan repayment of £190 
left £1,321 which would suggest they had substantially more net disposable income. 
They were in the position to build up further savings and cover any losses. 
Mrs B was living comfortably on her salary and had some savings. She inherited her 
mothers house and £5,000.
The £5,000 invested wasnt being used for day to day expenses and it wasnt unlikely 
that Mrs B wanted to ring fence this from her own money. The repayment of the 
loan was working well, and she might not have wanted to use her inheritance to 
repay a loan and lose access to the funds she had been left. Mrs B had said she was 
happy to continue with the loan rather than pay it off with inheritance. 
I had focused on what might have happened but did not happen when I said Mrs B 
may have lost her job which she had been in for 13 years and it wasnt a fair 
reflection of the situation or the advice. There was nothing to suggest the investment 
wasnt affordable and sustainable or that she was unable to repay the loan. 
It was difficult to show how Mrs Bs attitude to risk was established because of the 
time since the sale. It referred to other cases this service had seen where there was 
limited paperwork, but a medium risk investment was deemed appropriate for a first-
time investor. 
Mrs B had accepted the UK Growth Fund may have been suitable for her yet I felt 
she shouldnt have invested at all which was contradictory and didnt take into 
account the risk warnings given, the drop in value in 2001 where no issues were 
raised or Mrs Bs recollection of what happened and what she wanted. 
I had said I wasnt sure the investments were affordable for Mrs B, but all evidence 
indicated that they were. 
For me to conclude that someone in a stable job, aged 33 and with savings wasnt in 
a position to invest at all seems unusual and inconsistent. It led Lloyds to question 
the comparison with a no risk option in relation to any redress.
I had said I wasnt sure if Mrs B was able or willing to invest but Mrs B has said she 
was, and the documentation shows she was able to. Her complaint letter had said 
she was aware she could lose money which confirms a willingness to take some risk, 
which led it to question the redress I had recommended. 
Mrs B didnt respond to my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I disagree with Lloyds suggestion that I was wrong to only consider Mrs Bs circumstances  
it said the advice was given to both Mrs B and her husband. I accept that Mrs Bs husband 
was at the meeting as recorded in the FINANCIAL INTERVIEW  PERSONAL and that his 
details and circumstances were recorded. 
But when it came to the investment advice this was given to Mrs B only. Under the attitude to 
investment risk section only Mrs B was assessed. Its recorded that NO RISK 
ASSESSMENT DETAILS had been gathered for Mrs Bs husband or any .Customer 
Needs were identified for him, only for Mrs B. And in the SUMMARY & 
RECOMMENDATIONS provided as a result of the meeting it said that for Mrs B you have 
asked for advice on investments but for her husband it says you have not asked for 
advice on investments at the present time which is followed by a recommendation for Mrs B 
only. 
I also note that in Lloyds final response to Mrs Bs complaint it states, You were looking for 
advice on longer term investments in your name only and only Mrs B signed the Financial 
Ombudsman complaint form. So, I remain of the view that it is only Mrs Bs circumstances I 
need to consider in my review as the investments and the complaint are hers alone.  
I appreciate the point made by Lloyds in that it would difficult for anyone to recall their 
circumstances from 22 years ago. But I did ask Mrs B for her recollections as under the 
MONTHLY INCOME & EXPENDITURE section of the fact find only income was recorded 
and there were NO EXPENDITURE DETAILS which I would have expected to see. So, I 
dont think it was wrong of me to have asked Mrs B for her recollections and taken them into 
account as I thought appropriate. 
So, bearing in mind that of Mrs Bs net salary of £691, £190 was used for her loan 
repayment and a further £88.24 was needed for her monthly mortgage repayment, this left 
her with just over £400 per month for all her other outgoings. So, I dont find her recollection 
of a few hundred pounds of income after expenditure each month to be unreasonable taking 
into account her other monthly outgoings she told us about. And for the reasons I have 
explained above, it is only Mrs Bs circumstances that I have considered, and I have not 
taken into account her husbands income. 
Lloyds has said that Mrs B was living comfortably on her salary and it wasnt unlikely that for 
the £5,000 she inherited she didnt want to pay off her liability and she was happy with the 
way those repayments for her loan were going. But I maintain that the conclusion reached in 
my provisional decision is correct to the extent that Mrs B couldnt take the risk with those 
funds as it left her with very little in order to cover liabilities. 
There is nothing in the fact find to suggest that it was put to Mrs B that she might have been 
better off and a more prudent approach may have been for her to repay her loan for the 
credit card debt rather than investing it where it was exposed to the potential for capital 
losses. Mrs B may have decided not to take that advice if it had been given to her but Ive 
seen nothing to suggest this was discussed or that it was explained to her that by investing 
the £5,000 would have left her with limited cover for her liabilities So, I dont agree that the 
investments were affordable or sustainable as theres nothing to suggest that Mrs B was in 
the position to make up any significant losses to her capital. I agree with Lloyds comments that it wasnt necessarily the case that a medium risk 
approach for a first-time investor wasnt appropriate. But in this particular case I had 
concluded that Lloyds hadnt been able to evidence how it assessed Mrs Bs capacity for risk 
so I went on to consider the advice she was given in light of what was known about her 
circumstances at the time and whether that was suitable. 
Lloyds has said that for me to conclude that as Mrs B was in a stable job, was 33 years of 
age, and with savings wasnt in a position to invest was unusual. I accept that Mrs B had 
been in her role for 13 years which would suggest it was stable and was of a relatively young 
age. 
But the only savings she had  with the exception of her Mothers inheritance  was £103 
which suggests to me that she didnt have the financial capacity to save. She had other cash 
of £10,792 in her current account, £5,000 of which was invested, and which left her with 
£5,792 for other contingencies. And those contingencies included a liability of £5,664 which 
would have left Mrs B with little else if she had to pay that off. 
And the £5,000 invested was exposed to a medium risk in stock markets with the implicit risk 
of capital losses. I think by investing the £5,000  into investments which were exposed to 
that level of risk  added a layer of risk to Mrs Bs financial circumstances which I dont think 
was necessary to have been taken for the potential for capital growth. 
In her complaint letter to Lloyds, Mrs B had said she was aware that she could lose money 
which it said suggested she was willing to take some risk. It might have been the case that 
Mrs B was happy to take some risk with her capital. But I cant see that during the advice 
process her full financial circumstances were taken into account or that she was made 
aware that she could take a more cautious approach and not expose her funds to a risk that 
might have meant a loss was incurred. And the only other money she had might have been 
needed to repay her liability if her circumstances had changed.  
In response to our initial assessment Lloyds has said that Mrs B had accepted the UK 
Growth Fund may have been suitable for her. But that assessment hadnt taken into account 
that Mrs B would only have been left with just over £5,000 rather than over £10,000 after the 
investment, the loan liability of just over £5,000, or the full extent of Mrs Bs outgoings. So, I 
think taking those points into account, it changed the background to Mrs Bs circumstances 
and that impacted on the outcome to her complaint.
I remain of the opinion that Mrs B could have earned a reasonable rate of return without 
taking the risks that she did. This money was important to her and bearing in mind her 
overall financial circumstances I think the risk she was exposed to was too high. So, in the 
particular and individual circumstances of this complaint, I uphold it. 
Lloyds has referred to other cases that have been brought to the Financial Ombudsman and 
which havent been upheld. Every case that is brought to this service is considered on its 
own merits and in the particular circumstances of that individual complaint. Any particular 
outcome reached by the Financial Ombudsman on a complaint doesnt set a precedent for 
the outcomes of other complaints. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put   
Mrs B as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Lloyds do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Lloyds should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Scottish 
Widows UK 
Growth 
Fund and 
Worldwide 
Growth 
Fund No longer in 
forceAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDates 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end dates to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end dates.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end dates had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Lloyds should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawals from the Scottish Widows UK Growth Fund and Worldwide Growth Fund 
should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
Why is this remedy suitable? 
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs B's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs B would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC should pay redress 
using the method outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman