DRN-3044585
The complaint
Mr F complains that Reach Financial Services Ltd (trading as Cover My) didnt tell him that 
his mobile phone insurance was void until he tried to make a claim for a broken screen. He 
feels he shouldve been told this when he took out the policy.
What happened
Mr F took out an insurance policy on 3 February 2021 to cover his mobile phone. On 26 April 
2021 he tried to make a claim for his broken screen to be repaired. But Cover My told Mr F 
that his policy was void because his phone was refurbished, not new. They cancelled his 
policy and refunded the premium. Mr F complained that they shouldve told him the policy 
was void much sooner, so he couldve found cover elsewhere.
Cover My didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. They said his policy was void at the point of sale, 
because their policy documents make it clear that theyre unable to offer cover for any 
second-hand or refurbished phone bought from a retail shop. They said its the policy 
holders responsibility to read their policy documents to make sure the cover meets their 
needs  and that Mr F had a 14-day cooling-off period in which to cancel the contract for a 
full refund if he needed to do so. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. She thought Cover My had made it clear 
when he took out the policy that they could only cover new phones bought from a retail 
store, or refurbished phones bought directly from a manufacturer or network provider. She 
was satisfied that theyd only become aware that Mr Fs phone didnt meet the policy 
conditions when he tried to make a claim, so she didnt think they couldve made him aware 
of this any sooner. She thought theyd acted reasonably by refunding his premium, which 
she didnt think they were obliged to do. 
Mr F disagreed. He felt Cover My had been negligent in failing to notice that hed paid for a 
years insurance cover that wasnt valid, until he tried to make a claim. He said no mention of 
second-hand phones had been made on their website, and he felt the question theyd asked 
about this during the application process was unclear and confusing. The case has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets principles that businesses such as Cover My 
must follow. These can be found in the FCA handbook, which is available on their website. 
Cover My are expected to provide information their customers need in a way thats clear, fair 
and not misleading. Ive considered the information Mr F wouldve seen when he purchased 
his policy with this in mind.
Ive seen a screenshot of the questions Mr F was asked about his phone during the online 
application process. He was asked where hed purchased it  a text box was provided so 
that he could type in his answer. The next question asked whether his device was purchased 
directly from a manufacturer, network provider, retail store or online outlet. This question 
required a yes or no answer. Mr F feels this was confusing and unclear. Ive given careful 
thought to the point hes made. 
Insurers dont have to cover every eventuality  theyre entitled to limit the cover theyre 
prepared to offer. Ive seen that Mr Fs policy booklet included a section entitled Am I 
eligible for cover? This explained that his gadget would only be insured if it was purchased 
as new in the UK directly from a manufacturer, network provider or retail store (high street or 
online) OR purchased as refurbished in the UK direct from the manufacturer or network 
provider. 
The evidence Ive seen shows Mr F bought his phone from a retail store that only sells 
second-hand and refurbished devices. When asked whether his device was purchased 
directly from a manufacturer, network provider, retail store or online outlet, I think the answer 
wouldve been yes. I can see Mr F feels upset that no mention of second-hand phones was 
made at that stage.
 
But Ive seen evidence showing that this wasnt the end of the process. Cover My have told 
us that, once Mr F had entered all the required information, he wouldve also been asked to 
confirm that hed read the terms and conditions and the gadget assumptions. Theyve 
provided a screenshot of the gadget assumptions. These included the assumption that Mr 
Fs gadget:
was purchased as new in the UK directly from the manufacturer, network provider or 
retail store (high street or online) OR purchased as refurbished in the UK directly from 
the manufacturer or network provider.
I find this makes it clear that a phone bought from a retail store would only be covered if it 
was purchased as new, and not if it was second-hand or refurbished. Im satisfied that Mr 
F was required to confirm that hed checked those assumptions, so I cant say Cover My 
failed to provide clear information about this when he bought the policy. 
I can appreciate Mr F feels that, having entered the name of the supplier, and truthfully 
ticked yes to say this was a retail store, hed given Cover My enough information to realise 
that the policy wasnt valid. Cover My have told us that their staff dont review information 
entered in the free-text box when a policy is purchased, because customers are required to 
tick to confirm the gadget assumptions apply. I find this to be reasonable  I dont think it 
would be fair to expect businesses to cross-check the accuracy of information customers 
enter on every online application. So I cant say they did anything wrong here.
Cover My have told us that the suppliers name is gathered as a fraud-prevention measure, 
which is reviewed in the event of a claim. Im satisfied that they made Mr F aware that his 
policy was void as soon as they became aware of this  and that they refunded his premium 
in full. I think thats fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
Although I realise that Mr F will be disappointed with this decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 Corinne Brown
Ombudsman