DRN-3591690
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the actions of Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited (Saxo) after it 
corrected an incorrect pricing which impacted three of his positions carried out on 22/23 
September 2021. 
What happened
On 23 September 2021 there was an error in Saxos pricing of the UK100.I. Three of Mr Ds 
trades were impacted by this and Saxo cancelled the three trades and reinstated the 
positions at the correct prices. This resulted in Mr D suffering a loss on one of the positions 
that he says he wouldnt otherwise have incurred. 
Mr D complained to Saxo who didnt agree to uphold his complaint. It said;
There was a reporting error in the UK100.I pricing feed as the UK 100 overnight 
dividend was applied incorrectly by a factor of 100 which resulted in pricing being low 
by £63.42 (approximately 0.9%). The time period was 00.01 to 03.03 which it was 
corrected. 
Trades carried out during the incorrect pricing period were cancelled and reopened at 
the adjusted price for both the open and close price. This was in accordance with 
Saxos general business terms which Mr D agreed to in April 2020.
Mr D was notified of the correction on 23 September 2021 by a platform notification 
and an email. 
For two of Mr Ds positions (2011936011 and 2011970616) because both the open 
and closing positions were amended this had no effect on his profit and loss. But for 
position 2011971165 rather than making a profit of £2,818, he suffered a loss of 
£353.50 because of the amendment. Saxo said it didnt compensate for opportunity 
losses. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr D brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator wo considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
Saxo was entitled to adjust the price of an already executed trade when an incorrect 
price had been quoted. The price was manifestly incorrect. 
The amendment was made as quickly as possible and Mr D had been notified. She 
appreciated that a breakdown of the adjustment would have been helpful to him and 
in advance of the amendment being made but that wouldnt have made a material 
difference. The prices were incorrect and needed to be corrected. 
She wasnt going to ask Saxo to reimburse his loss of £353.50 as the adjustment 
was made fairly. 
Mr D didnt agree. Each time a position was opened and closed it cost money which hadnt 
been reimbursed to him. He should have been given notification prior to the closing of any of 
his open positions as it was his right to maintain them if he wanted to at the correct rate. He 
wasnt given the option. He said the charges shouldnt have been applied and his positions 
shouldnt have been closed with him being asked first. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr D is aware of the general terms of business he agreed to when he opened his account 
with Saxo in 2020. For completeness Ill include them again in my final decision. They say;
14 PRICE ERRORS AND CHANGES IN CONDITIONS
..
14.3 Prices offered by Saxo Markets regarding the sale, purchase or exercise of Listed 
Derivatives reflect the price of the relevant Reference Derivative. During to the period 
from the Clients acceptance or instruction regarding a Listed Derivative until the 
execution of the relevant Reference Derivative on the Regulated Market by the Listed 
Derivative Counterparty, another third party or Saxo Markets (as the case may be), 
the price as listed on the Trading Platform is subject to change. This is in order that 
the Listed Derivative reflects the price of the relevant Reference Derivative at the 
time of its execution or exercise (as applicable).
i. In the event Saxo Markets offer a Misquoted Price or if an Exceptional Market 
Condition occurs or is likely to occur, Saxo Market may in its sole discretion 
either:
a) refrain from executing, or cancel, any Contract or any purchase or sale of 
any Instrument which is, or purports to have been, entered into at the 
Misquoted Price; and
b) execute the Contract or the sale or purchase of any Instrument at the 
Misquoted Price or the price which in Saxo Markets reasonable opinion 
reflects the market price; or
c) change any Contract or purchase or sale of any Instrument already 
executed to the price which in Saxo Markets reasonable opinion reflects 
the market price.
Its agreed that the prices that Mr D traded at on 22 and 23 September 2021 were misquoted 
prices. As explained above the UK100 overnight dividend was included in error to the factor 
of 100. I dont include it here, but Saxo has sent this service and to Mr D a chart of the price 
from the time and its very apparent its not right. But as soon as it was corrected Saxo went 
about cancelling and replacing the positions using the correct price as it is entitled to do 
under its general terms. So, I cant agree that Saxo has acted outside of its terms.
Saxo informed Mr D of the amendment, first in a notification on its platform and second via 
an email. Both notifications were sent on 23 September. So, I am satisfied Mr D was 
promptly informed of the error. 
Mr D has said he would like to have been informed in advance of those positions being 
cancelled and reinstated with the correct prices. While I appreciate Mr Ds view on this, like 
the investigator, I cant see it would have made any difference to the overall outcome. Mr D wouldnt have been given a choice either way about whether he wanted to maintain those 
positions at the correct rate. Those trades had already taken place overnight  two limit 
orders and a stop order  albeit at the incorrect price initially but those same positions were 
reinstated at the correct prices and which resulted in Mr D incurring a loss of £353.50. 
Mr D doesnt agree that he should suffer that loss. He said he wouldnt expect to make a 
profit because of an error but neither would he expect to suffer a loss. But Mr D has suffered 
a loss on the correct pricing not on the incorrect pricing. As Ive said above, those positions 
would have gone ahead in any event  irrespective of the incorrect pricing. But by reinstating 
those positions at the correct prices, Saxo has effectively placed Mr D in the financial 
position he would have been as if the incorrect pricing hadnt occurred. And I think Saxo has 
acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.
Taking all of the above into account, and after consideration of the individual circumstances 
of Mr Ds complaint, I dont uphold it. No doubt Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, 
but I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman