DRN-3359072
The complaint
Mr U complains Allianz Insurance Plc settled his motor insurance claim unfairly.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr Us recovery truck was damaged in a collision with another vehicle. 
He claimed on his Allianz motor trade insurance policy. The vehicle was deemed a total loss. 
Allianz offered to settle his claimed using a valuation of £6,000. That was net of VAT, but 
before any policy excess deduction. Mr U felt this was too low. After he explained the truck 
had an aluminium bed Allianz increased the valuation to £6,750.  
In August 2021 Allianz a responded to a complaint from Mr U. He provided a valuation, from 
an independent organisation, of £11,098. But Allianz didnt accept the valuation method. It 
felt most of the vehicles used to calculate the valuation werent comparable to Mr Us. It said 
its valuation of £6,750 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr U was still unhappy so came to this service. He says Allianzs valuation and proposed 
settlement isnt enough to allow him to buy a comparable vehicle. He says Allianzs valuation 
is based on the book value of a truck without the required additional equipment. He says he 
will accept a settlement of £11,098. Mr U returned a settlement cheque, for £6,400, to 
Allianz. He says as hes been unable to replace the recovery truck hes lost business and 
income.  
Our investigator felt Allianzs valuation and settlement offer was fair. Mr U didnt accept that, 
so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Allianz to do anything differently.
As this is an informal service, I havent referred here to every bit of evidence or information 
Ive been provided with. Instead Ive focused here on what I consider to be the key issues 
and points. But Id like to assure Mr U and Allianz that Ive considered everything they have 
provided. 
Mr Us policy says in the event of a total loss of an insured vehicle Allianz will pay up to the 
Insured Value. Insured Value is defined as the sum for which the Insured Vehicle or a 
vehicle of equivalent quality and specification could have been purchased by You at the time 
of the loss or damage. So Ive considered if Allianzs offer to settle Mr Us claim is fair and in 
line with the terms.   
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a vehicle. When looking into these 
types of complaints we usually check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the 
insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with them. We do also consider information other 
than trade guides, including adverts. 
However, due to the specialist nature of the vehicle the trade guides cant provide 
valuations.  Ive considered everything thats been provided by Mr U and Allianz  including 
his independent valuation. Ive considered the features of the truck  including its aluminium 
bed, crew cab and remote winch. 
Mr Us vehicle is a 2004 registration with 467,000km on the clock. His independent valuation 
is calculated using an average of five vehicles advertised prices. They ranged from a 2002 
model to one from 2014. Their mileages ranged from 231,000 to 247,000km. Allianz said the 
vehicles werent comparable. They are largely much newer than Mr Us with significantly less 
mileage. Considering that I agree it isnt reasonable to use an average of those prices to 
produce a valuation for Mr Us vehicle. 
Allianz felt the nearest comparable vehicle of the five to be a 2009 model with 247,000km. It 
said its advertised price of £6,750 supports its own valuation. I note its a single cab model, 
unlike Mr Us. But it is five years younger with almost half the mileage of Mr Us. And as far 
as Im aware it hasnt previously been written off  unlike Mr Us. Records show a category S 
write off from December 2019. 
Ive also seen some more recent adverts for trucks of the same make and model found by 
our investigator. The one most comparable to Mr Us vehicle is a double cab version 
advertised at just below £9,000. But its four years younger than Mr Us with 45,000km less 
on the clock.  Again as far as Im aware it hasnt been written off previously. 
Mr Us said the truck had renovation and repair work. Allianz said it doesnt accept that as 
something that would increase a value. It says its expected that a vehicle will be maintained 
and repaired to keep it serviceable and presentable. I think thats a fair and reasonable 
position.  
Ive considered what Mr U says about being unable to find a suitable replacement based on 
a valuation of £6,750. Ive also taken into account Mr Us personal loss involved in the 
collision. But having considered everything provided I cant say Allianzs offer to settle the 
claim was unfair or unreasonable  or not made in line with the terms of his policy. Based on 
the available evidence Im satisfied it represented a fair value. 
Its unfortunate Mr U returned the cheque, hasnt bought a replacement and has experienced 
a loss of income. However, I cant fairly say that was Allianzs fault. So Im not going to 
require it to use a higher valuation or pay Mr U any compensation. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman