DRN-3822604
The complaint
Miss P complains about St Andrews Insurance Plcs handling of a claim under her home 
insurance policy following a flood.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I only intend to give a 
brief summary here. Both parties can be assured that I have read all of the documents, 
evidence and comments we have on file.
At the relevant times, Miss P had a home insurance policy underwritten by St Andrews 
Insurance Plc (SAI). This covered buildings and contents at her property.
Miss P made a claim in late 2015 after flooding in her area had led to water inundating the 
lower part of the property. SAI accepted the claim and appointed loss adjusters to deal with it 
on their behalf.
Miss P has made a number of complaints about this claim and others she made to SAI. 
Some of those have been referred to our service and have been dealt with separately.
This complaint relates to the settlement of Miss Ps contents claim relating to the 2015 flood. 
Its not for me, in this decision, to go over again the detail relating to the other complaints.
In short, Miss Ps claim amounted to around £500,000 for contents she says were at her 
property and were damaged or lost as a result of the 2015 flood.
Having assessed the claim, SAI paid Miss P close to £91,000 in settlement of that contents 
claim.
Miss P was unhappy with this and made a complaint to SAI. And when they maintained their 
stance and said the settlement was fair and reasonable, she brought her complaint to us.
Miss P appointed her own loss assessor, who said the settlement should have been just 
above £497,000, if in line with the terms of Miss Ps policy at its original inception, or around 
£258,000 if applying the terms as amended by SAI several years after inception.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint and upheld it. He said that although he had 
no reason to doubt the settlement paid to Miss P, he thought SAI needed to do more to 
clarify for her how theyd reached that figure  which would then allow Miss P to provide any 
further evidence she had to substantiate other parts of the claim.
SAI disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They think their claim 
settlement decision was explained sufficiently thoroughly and it would be onerous to set out 
the exact items that were included - and not included - in the settlement figure. 
Its only fair to mention that Miss P also had reservations about the proposed outcome. She 
wants SAI to pay the claim based on her own loss assessors report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be best to start by setting out some general principles which apply to this case. First 
of all, SAI are entitled to ask for proof of ownership of any claimed items  and proof of their 
loss. And theyre entitled to ask for evidence to help in their valuation of claimed items.
It's not unfair for SAI to decline a claim for items where there is no information or evidence to 
demonstrate ownership, and/or to show that the items were damaged beyond repair or 
restoration. 
And its not unfair for them to seek further information to value items. They could not 
reasonably be asked to simply take a customers valuation of an item as accurate. 
In this case, Miss P decided that she didnt want to have SAIs preferred contractor collect 
and store the damaged items. She took photographs and then disposed of many of the items 
herself.
SAI say that the photographs Miss P provided didnt feature many of the claimed items. And 
some items in the photographs appeared to be completely undamaged by the flood. It also 
appeared some items could have been reasonably easily repaired and/or cleaned and 
returned to Miss P.
In essence, Miss P appears to be claiming for a large number of items which are no longer 
available to inspect and for which there appears to be no proof of ownership, nothing to 
establish that they were damaged (or damaged beyond repair) and nothing to establish that 
the value ascribed to them by Miss P is accurate.
SAI also have concerns that some items which were apparently disposed of after the 2015 
flood appear to have been claimed again after a later insured event.
To come to the point, given the nature and size of the claim and the events which followed it, 
I am not going to ask SAI to settle Miss Ps claim in the way she wishes  according to her 
own loss assessors calculations.
To begin with, its not unreasonable for SAI to ask for proof of ownership and/or irreparable 
damage and/or evidence of value of the claimed items. And Miss P hasnt provided that as 
yet.
And Miss Ps loss assessors calculations assume all the items were owned by Miss P, all 
the items were lost or damaged and all the items had the value Miss P ascribed to them. 
In essence, they were conducting an exercise to calculate the overall value of the claim 
based on two different sets of terms and conditions, assuming all the items were lost or 
damaged and correctly valued.
So, Im not going to require SAI to increase the settlement already paid to Miss P in the 
absence of further evidence to demonstrate ownership, loss and/or value of the items 
claimed.
However, I agree with our investigator that SAI need to do more, to be fair to Miss P, to set 
out for her what evidence she needs to provide and about which items.When SAI explained their calculation of the settlement (the close to £91,000 payment), they 
pointed out that Miss Ps policy had limits relating to high risk items. In essence, they would 
pay only up to £10,000 for high risk items, plus a further £4,000 for personal possessions 
(which might include high risk items).
They said her claim had £222,000 worth of high risk items. High risk items include, for 
example, electrical goods, jewellery, art works and collections or collectables. So, of that 
£222,000 claimed by Miss P, the policy limits dictated SAI would pay only £14,000.
There is no overall limit for other contents. SAI said theyd valued clothing owned by Miss P 
at just over £78,000, subject to a deduction for wear and tear.
The £14,000 for high risk items and the payment for clothing add up to around the total 
settlement payment made to Miss P. Its not entirely clear whether thats a coincidence, 
although that seems unlikely.
The explanation provided by SAI (in an email of 28 February 2019) doesnt specify which 
claimed items SAI think are high risk items. And its not entirely clear whether all items which 
arent clothing or high risk have been excluded from the claim (although this seems likely 
given the maths Ive set out above). 
It might be worth noting at this point that £222,000 (the value of the high risk items according 
to SAI) plus £78,000 (the value of the clothing) comes to around £300,000. Which is still 
around £200,000 short of Miss Ps total claim value.
That February 2019 email sets out some of the issues SAI have with Miss Ps claim. But at 
the end, it also says SAI will review the claim settlement if: (a) Miss P provides photographs 
of all items and cross-references them to the XL list shed earlier provided of claimed items; 
and (b) she provides evidence of the value of each item or explains how shes reached the 
valuation shes given.
If Miss P is to do that  without it being an onerous and more difficult task than it needs to be 
 she needs to know which items SAI regard as high risk. And which items theyve already 
paid out for.
And that was why our investigator came to the conclusion that SAI should now set out for 
Miss P: 
(a) a list of the items covered by the payment under the inner limits of the policy (the 
£10,000 for high risk items and the £4,000 for personal possessions;
(b) a list of items which would come under those limits but werent paid out (i.e. the other 
high risk items and personal possessions);
(c) a list of items not covered by those inner policy limits which they have paid out for; 
and 
(d) a list of items not covered by those inner limits which they havent paid out for.
That would then allow Miss P to determine which items arent subject to the policy limits and 
so could still be covered by SAI if she can provide the information or evidence they need.
This might be as simple as SAI telling Miss P theyve paid for clothing but nothing else (other 
than the £14,000 within the limits for high risk items). And listing the remaining items they 
regard as not high risk. But I cant definitively draw that conclusion now given the evidence we have at present and the lack of clarity or specificity in the explanations from SAI.
In summary, I agree with our investigator. It isnt fair and reasonable for SAI to tell Miss P 
they will reconsider her claim and the settlement amount if she provides further evidence 
about ownership, damage and value but then not tell her which items havent been as yet 
covered by the settlement already paid. 
Putting things right
Taking all of that into account, Im going to require SAI to provide Miss P with a breakdown 
of her claim to show: 
(a) what items they regarded as high value; and 
(b) of the non-high value items, which have been paid for under the settlement of around 
£91,000 and which havent.
This differs very slightly from what our investigator recommended, but not so as to make any 
significant difference to the outcome. 
Im not requiring SAI to split the high value items into ones that were paid under the claim 
and ones that werent. That wouldnt reflect the way theyd handle a claim. It would be 
reasonable to stop assessing and valuing high risk items once youve reached the policy 
limit.
However, it does give Miss P the opportunity to look at the full list of high risk items and to 
question whether some of those items should in fact be regarded as high risk. And thats the 
important thing here, in my view.
SAI have told us they didnt keep lists of the claimed items to show what were now asking 
them to disclose to Miss P. 
However, Im satisfied they should be able to list the items they regarded as high risk  they 
came to a very exact total valuation figure for those items (£222,000). That would have been 
impossible without knowing very specifically which items they regarded as high risk.
They should also be able to account for which items were covered in the c.£78,000 paid out 
over and above the £14,000 for high risk items and personal possessions. 
As I say, that may have been the clothing and nothing else. But if so, SAI should confirm 
that. 
And if not, its again very difficult to see how SAI would have come to that exact and precise 
figure without knowing which items they were covering and which items they were not. So, 
they should now be able to list the covered and non-covered items for Miss P.
Further, to be absolutely clear, if SAI have in fact destroyed any records which would have 
allowed them to easily provide those lists to Miss P, they will now have to re-assess the list 
of claimed items. Theyll presumably come to the same conclusion they did first time around 
assuming that original assessment was fair, reasonable and comprehensive.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint in part.
St Andrews Insurance Plc must provide Miss P with lists to show:(a) what claimed items they regarded as high value; and 
(b) of the non-high value items, which have been paid for under the settlement of 
around £91,000 and which havent.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman