DRN-3618892
The complaint
Mr P complains that Covea Insurance plc trading as Provident Insurance (Covea) treated 
him unfairly after he made a claim on his motor insurance.
What happened
Mr P had a Covea motor insurance policy. He was involved in a car accident in July 2019. 
Mr P said the other driver accepted liability for the accident at the scene. He made a claim to 
Covea. 
Mr P is unhappy that:
He didnt hear anything from Covea about his claim for over eight months.
He had to appoint his own solicitor to pursue his personal injury claim. 
He paid his £400 policy excess despite the other driver accepting liability.
Covea gave him incorrect information. For example, it initially told him he wasnt 
insured by Covea and later told him it had accepted 50/50 liability for the accident. 
Covea apologised to Mr P. It said, in summary:
It accepted that Mr P chased Covea on numerous occasions for a refund of his 
policy excess but it didnt reply.
It agreed to log the claim as non-fault and refund Mr Ps excess in August 2020.
It wrongly sent him a letter in November 2020 saying it had accepted 50/50 split 
liability and Mr Ps no claims bonus (NCB) would be disallowed.
It agreed its service wasnt good enough and offered him £25. This was in addition to 
£200 it paid him in June 2020 and £450 in August 2020 (his £400 excess plus £50 
compensation).
Mr P was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Covea to 
recognise the stress they put him through and compensate him for this. Hed also like Covea 
to refund half his insurance premium.
Two of our investigators reviewed this complaint. Neither recommended that Mr Ps 
complaint should be upheld. They agreed that Coveas handling of his claim and 
communications hadnt been good enough. However, they thought Coveas £275 
compensation offer was reasonable.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry that its taken so long to resolve this complaint.
Second, Mr Ps policy certificate shows that his policy didnt include additional legal cover. 
So Im satisfied that Covea didnt have to pursue Mr Ps personal injury claim for him.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy, Covea can take over, defend, or settle a 
claim as it sees fit (General conditions, page 27). This is common in insurance policies and 
Covea doesnt need Mr P to agree this. This also means Covea can make a decision Mr P 
doesnt agree with. If it does, I can decide if that decision was fair and reasonable. 
Coveas internal notes suggest it didnt communicate with Mr P for about ten months 
between August 2019 and May 2020. It told us it would normally only update a policyholder 
with a meaningful update on their claim, for example a decision on liability. I understand 
Coveas point, but I think the lack of communication here was poor, particularly given Covea 
acknowledged this claim took longer than usual to process. I think it could have done more 
to keep Mr P and his solicitor informed.
While Mr P says the other driver accepted liability for the accident, Coveas internal notes 
shows their insurer contested this. Given the evidence available, Covea decided to split 
liability. As I said above, normally Id consider whether this decision was fair. However, in 
this case Covea agreed to record the complaint as non-fault against Mr P. It refunded his 
£400 excess and allowed his NCB. Im satisfied that this decision was fair to Mr P.
Covea acknowledged it sent a letter to Mr P on 10 November 2020, wrongly telling him the 
claim was settled on a 50/50 split liability basis. However, Im satisfied that this was a simple 
admin error and it corrected this quickly. It wrote to Mr P again on 13 November 2020 to 
confirm your claim was settled on a non-fault basis your No Claims Bonus (NCB) has 
been allowed. Its internal notes also show it confirmed this to Mr P during a phone call on 
18 November 2020.
Mr P wants Covea to refund 50% of his insurance premium. His policy booklet covers two 
situations where a premium refund might be available:
Policy cancellation (Cancelling your policy, page 23).
Changes in circumstances (General Conditions, page 26).
Im satisfied that neither of these apply here. Even if they did apply, typically an insurer 
wouldnt offer a premium refund once a customer makes a successful claim. This is because 
the customer has already used their policy. This is made clear on page 23 of Mr Ps policy 
booklet: If any claim has been made by you or against you in the current period of 
insurance, we will not refund any amount you have paid. Covea negotiated with the third 
party insurer and settled the claim. I dont see any reason why it should offer a premium 
refund in this case.
I agree that Coveas failings will have caused Mr P some distress. Altogether its paid Mr P 
£250 to apologise for its poor service: £200 in June 2020 and £50 in August 2020. For the 
avoidance of doubt, Im also satisfied that Covea has shown it refunded Mr Ps policy excess 
in August 2020. Mr P refused the additional £25 it offered him in November 2020.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that this is fair. I leave it to Mr P to decide whether he 
wants to accept the final £25 that Covea offered him in November 2020. Im not going to ask 
Covea to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman