DRN-2501379
The complaint
Ms A complains about Santander UK Plcs decision to close her accounts and hold on to the 
money which she says shes entitled to.
Ms A says she would like Santander to remove any adverse information linked to her name 
and accounts, and shed like them to re-open her accounts.
What happened
Ms A held several accounts with Santander  some in her personal name, others in a 
company name. Santander have concerns about the credits which were received into Ms As 
accounts  and for them to release the money to her, they need to be satisfied Ms A is 
entitled to it.
Ms A has told our service about the complex history of her partners accounts due to 
suspicions of money laundering. Shes also confirmed that all charges against her partner 
were dropped. This is somewhat relevant to Ms As complaint due to the link between her 
business accounts and her partner. 
In 2019, Santander requested certain information from Ms A relating to her accounts. Ive 
seen that Santander sent an email to solicitors who are representing Ms A in March 2019 
with a list of the outstanding information they require. Santander didnt receive the relevant 
information from Ms A or her solicitors.
Santander made the decision to close Ms As accounts in May 2019. They provided Ms A 
with a 60-day notice to close letter which included details of the accounts left in balance, and 
those which had a balance owing to Santander. They also let Ms A know that if the debt 
wasnt repaid within the time frame they gave, they could pass the account to their 
collections team and report the debt to the Credit Reference Agencies.
The investigator didnt uphold Ms As complaint. She said that as Santander hadnt received 
the information to be satisfied of Ms As entitlement to the money, she thought it was fair that 
theyre holding on to it. She also thought reporting the debt to the Credit Reference Agencies 
was a true reflection of Ms As account at the time of reporting, and therefore didnt think 
they needed to remove the adverse information.
Ms A disagreed. Since the investigators opinion, Ms A sent some further information to be 
considered. The investigator forwarded this to Santander, however Santanders decision 
remains unchanged.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons.
I trust Ms A wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I 
have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
the right outcome.
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing customer and business relationships.
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Santander was complying with their legal 
and regulatory obligations in asking for evidence that the money in question did belong to Ms 
A. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Ms A on behalf of herself, or her company, decided to stop banking with Santander  
she wouldnt have to give a reason why. Having said that, Ms A is aware that Santander 
have asked for specific information showing her entitlement to the money credited into her 
account in 2014. And as they havent received a satisfactory response to their queries, 
theyve exercised their commercial discretion to no longer allow Ms A banking facilities.
Banks are only allowed to close accounts if its in line with the terms and conditions. Im 
pleased to see Santander gave Ms A sufficient notice when deciding to close her accounts  
60 days. As that is in line with their terms and conditions. This service wont generally 
intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Santander exercised their right to no longer 
offer Ms A banking facilities and gave her sufficient notice. I havent seen anything to 
suggest they made an unfair decision, and therefore cant fairly ask them to do anything 
differently.
Im aware Ms A had accounts which were using an overdraft when Santander made the 
decision to close them. Im not aware of the current status of these accounts and whether or 
not they have been passed on to collection agents as Santanders notice to close letter 
confirmed. If Ms A hasnt made any attempt or agreed a suitable repayment plan with 
Santander, then I find it acceptable if these accounts have been passed on to a collections 
agency. I also agree its fair they report any non-repayment to the credit reference agencies 
to show the true status of the account. Because of that, I wont be asking Santander to 
remove any adverse payment information they have rightfully recorded.
I appreciate Ms A thinks Santander are holding money which belongs to her. Santander 
have asked for sufficient evidence to show Ms As entitlement to the money. To date, they 
havent received that evidence. I appreciate Ms A thinks what she has supplied is enough 
and Santander should release the money. However, there are still a number of queries 
outstanding where Ms A hasnt been able to provide sufficient supporting evidence. I 
appreciate Ms As strong feeling about this complaint  and she feels the money is being 
withheld from her unfairly. Ive also noted that Ms A says she is missing some items from 
when the Police searched her home in relation to her partners arrest. Ms A says because of 
these missing items, its difficult for her to give Santander the information theyre asking for. 
But I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for that. Ultimately, Santander have taken the 
appropriate actions based on the current information they have for Ms As accounts.
Based on the actions Santander have taken and the advice they have received from external 
agencies, I agree its not appropriate for them to release the money to Ms A. Im pleased 
Santander have allowed Ms A to get back in touch with them at any time with further information which theyve confirmed they will review. I know how disappointing my decision 
will be for Ms A but in the circumstances, I cant fairly uphold her complaint. And it follows, 
that I wont be asking Santander to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman