complaint
Ms W says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two loans Satsuma provided to Ms W between October 2017 and 
November 2017. A summary of Ms Ws lending history, as evidenced by Satsuma, is as 
follows:  
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
112/10/2017 outstanding 12 £150.00 £24.90
218/11/2017 outstanding 12 £800.00 £132.80
Our adjudicator thought about Ms Ws complaint and felt Satsuma had lent to 
her responsibly, and so didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ms W disagreed saying that at the 
time she was in financially difficulty and had been borrowing from several lenders, so it 
was irresponsible of Satsuma to lend to her. As Ms W disputed the initial assessment the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
DRN-1502240 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Ms W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint.
Ms Ws first loan was for £150.00 and as per the loan agreement her maximum monthly 
repayment during the term was £24.90. Ive seen a record of the information Ms W provided 
when she completed her loan application. Ms W said she had a monthly income of £1500.00 
at the time and monthly expenses of £1265.38. So, after deducting her regular monthly 
outgoings this means she was left with a disposable income of £234.62. So, it looked like 
she had enough disposal income to make her payments under this loan agreement.
At this point in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to have relied 
on what Ms W told it about her income and expenditure, and I think it was reasonable of 
Satsuma not to investigate Ms Ws circumstances any further at this point. 
I havent seen any evidence or other information that Satsuma collected at the time of this 
loan application that shows its likely it was made aware of any financial problems Ms W 
mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Ms Ws 
circumstances further and I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the information it 
obtained. So, Ive not found any reason to uphold the complaint about loan 1. 
Ms Ws second loan was for £800.00 and as per her loan agreement her monthly 
repayments were £132.80. But Ms W's first loan was still running, so her total monthly 
repayments to Satsuma were £157.70. At this time, she said her monthly expenses totalled £1,254.48, which left her a disposable income of £545.52. So again, it looked like she had 
enough disposal income to make her payments under this loan agreement.
Ms W says these loans were not affordable for her and has provided her bank statement to 
show that around this time she was earning around £900.00 per month. Therefore, Ms W 
says that Satsuma shouldnt have lent to her. Had Satsuma completed a full review of 
Ms Ws financial circumstances, I think this is something it ought to have uncovered. But, at 
this point in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to have relied on 
what Ms W told it about her income and expenditure, and I think it was reasonable of 
Satsuma not to investigate Ms Ws circumstances any further at this point. 
It is of course possible that had Ms W taken further lending then Satsuma, as a reasonable 
lender, ought to have carried out further, more in-depth checks at that point. But considering 
Ms W hadnt taken out any prior loans with Satsuma, I dont think it had yet reached the 
stage where it needed to carry out further checks, such as verifying this information or 
enquiring into her wider financial circumstances.
I havent seen any evidence or other information that Satsuma collected at the time of her 
loan applications that shows its likely it was made aware of any financial problems Ms W 
mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Ms Ws 
circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the information it 
obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment Satsuma carried out 
for Ms Ws loans were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend Ms W in these 
circumstances was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman