DRN-3307585
The complaint
Mr U complains that Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited failed to collect payments 
from his bank, which meant he invested less than hed expected in a stocks and shares ISA.
What happened
In 1996 Mr U opened a PEP (which later became a stocks and shares ISA) and paid in 
£250. He remembers setting up monthly direct debit payments for £250, and believes they 
were taken until 2000, when he changed bank accounts and says he would have stopped 
saving. He opened the ISA following advice from a different business, who Ill call Company 
A. The ISA was originally administered by Company A, but in 2002 the responsibility for the 
administration of the ISA was passed to Scottish Widows, along with responsibility for any 
administrative errors that happened before then. The responsibility for the advice remains 
with Company A.
 
Mr U says that in 2020 he discovered that the ISA was administered by Scottish Widows and 
worth around £600. Mr U made a complaint to Scottish Widows as he was unhappy with the 
value of the ISA  he felt if regular payments had been collected, the ISA would now be 
worth a lot more, so he requested compensation of £28,000. 
Scottish Widows forwarded the complaint to Company A, as they had given the original 
advice. Company A explained that its likely the ISA was set up on a regular payment basis, 
because £250 was below the minimum amount permitted for making lump sum payments 
into the ISA. However, they had no records of what happened after the advice was given 
and so referred Mr U back to Scottish Widows. 
Scottish Widows only had a record of receiving the first payment of £250 in 1996 and didnt 
have any records of what happened to prevent further payments from being collected. They 
explained that annual statements would have been sent to Mr U which ought to have made 
him aware of the value of the ISA and the fact payments werent being taken. They offered 
Mr U £150 for delays in dealing with the complaint. Mr U disagreed, and escalated the 
complaint to our service, because Scottish Widows could not provide statements from 1996 
showing no other payments had been received. He said that because something had gone 
wrong with the collection of his payments, Scottish Widows should compensate him for the 
error.
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found it was likely a regular 
investment had been agreed. However, she felt there wasnt enough evidence to say that 
Scottish Widows were at fault for the fact further payments werent collected. So, she didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr U disagreed, saying that Scottish Widows ought to be able to 
provide statements covering the whole period, and that it wasnt fair that the full burden of 
proof should fall to him. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
Due to the time that has passed there is very little documentation setting out what happened 
at the sale from any of the parties involved. However, Ive seen a version of the terms and 
conditions that applied to the product, dated four months after Mr U invested. Scottish 
Widows has said its unlikely they changed substantially in the interim. The terms say that 
the minimum lump sum investment amount was £1,060 and the minimum monthly saving 
amount was £100. Given that this is in line with what Mr U remembers happening, I think its 
likely that Mr U did agree to make regular payments. 
My understanding is that Mr U has put forward two possible scenarios for what happened 
next. Either the payments were taken between 1996 to 2000 and Scottish Widows cannot 
locate the money he invested. Or, he thinks the payments were never taken, and Scottish 
Widows are at fault for that and ought to compensate him as though they had been taken. 
Unfortunately, hes not had any success with getting information from the bank he was with 
between 1996 and 2000 to show whether the payments were in fact deducted.   
Historical statements of the ISA are also unavailable, but Scottish Widows has been able to 
provide a screenshot of their systems, showing the value of the investment when they took 
over the account in 2002. This shows the number and value of the units Mr U held in 
Company As fund, and the number and value of the units he received in the equivalent 
Scottish Widows fund after the transfer. This shows the account was worth around £200 at 
the time. Given Mr U has provided no evidence of any further payments being made, and 
theres no evidence of any withdrawals, on balance I think its likely that he only made the 
first payment. 
There is no evidence from 1996 showing why the regular payments werent then taken from 
Mr Us bank account. So, I need to decide whether there is enough evidence to find, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Scottish Widows are at fault for not taking the payments. As far 
as I can tell there are three other parties that could be responsible  Company A, Mr Us 
bank, and Mr U himself. Mr U doesnt remember the situation clearly, but argues that it 
would be illogical for him to have intentionally set up the account with just one payment in it 
 and I agree this seems unlikely.  
However, its not uncommon for things to go wrong during the direct debit set up process  
for example account numbers could have been incorrect, or his bank could have refused the 
request for one of several reasons. To fairly say Scottish Widows had done something 
wrong, Id need some persuasive evidence that they were the ones who failed to request the 
direct debit from Mr Us bank. Without that, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
hold Scottish Widows responsible for this situation.
Also, I do think Mr U could have mitigated his perceived losses here. He disputes ever 
having received statements for the ISA, and Ive noted they were only sent once a year. But 
he would likely have been receiving monthly statements from his bank, which he could have 
reviewed. If he had, he would have realised that the direct debit wasnt being taken. Had this 
complaint been raised earlier, there may have been more evidence of what happened, in 
order to decide who caused the issue. 
It would also be a significant challenge to quantify Mr Us losses. His loss is effectively the 
growth on the money he would have invested  but hes had use of that money elsewhere 
and its very difficult to put a figure on the value hes accrued from that use. He may have 
saved the money elsewhere  and so earned a monetary benefit from it  or done a myriad of other things with it, from which hed have gotten some other form of benefit. Given the 
time thats passed and the lack of records, I dont think its possible to quantify those benefits 
in a fair and reasonable way. So even if I were to agree that Scottish Widows had done 
something wrong in failing to collect the payments, I wouldnt direct Scottish Widows to 
compensate Mr U for the growth hes missed out on. 
Overall, primarily because of the time that has passed, I dont have enough evidence to fairly 
say that Scottish Widows likely caused the problem, or the loss, that Mr U is complaining 
about.
I note Scottish Widows has paid Mr U £150 in relation to the delay in dealing with his 
complaint. I think this is a fair offer for the delays Mr U experienced in receiving a reply from 
Scottish Widows, given it took them around five months to fully respond, and it 
acknowledges the fact he had to request updates before they eventually replied. I 
understand that this has already been paid and so Scottish Widows doesnt need to do 
anything further to settle the complaint.   
My final decision
Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to 
settle the complaint about the delays Mr U has experienced and I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances. As the compensation has already been paid, I dont think Scottish 
Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited need to do anything further to settle the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman