DRN-3993791
The complaint
Ms C complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
will not pay her the full proceeds of her Low Cost Endowment Assurance policy that matured 
in 2018. It says the policy is jointly owned and cannot be transferred to Ms C without an 
appropriate deed of assignment.  
What happened
Ms C took out the policy jointly with her former husband, Mr C. In 2010, Ms C and Mr C 
divorced. A Minute of Agreement was completed by Ms C and Mr C whereby it was agreed 
that the policy would be transferred to Ms C. This was supplied to Royal London in 2012 by 
Ms Cs solicitor.  
On 23 August 2012, Royal London wrote to Ms Cs solicitor explaining that in order to assign 
the policy to Ms C, it required a Deed of Assignment (DoA).  
In 2016, a different solicitor on behalf of Ms C wrote to Royal London again in reference to 
the policy, noting Ms C was the policy owner. Royal London replied on 10 February 2016 
explaining that Ms C wasnt the sole policy owner, as it had never received authority by way 
of the DoA requested in 2012. Ms Cs solicitor told Royal London on 16 February 2016 it 
would obtain a DoA accordingly. However, this was not supplied at any time thereafter.  
In 2018, Ms C contacted Royal London about the policy proceeds as the policy had matured 
on 1 April 2018 at a value of £17,645.17. It reiterated that it required a DoA and sent her a 
copy of the 2016 correspondence with her solicitor. 
In January 2022, Ms C contacted Royal London again. She said it had clear consent to pay 
the full policy proceeds to her, but it had failed to do so. The call handler explained to her 
that as the policy remained in joint names, it required authorisation from both policyholders 
in order to release the proceeds or otherwise a DoA ought to be supplied.  
In May 2022, Ms C complained. She said if Royal London had asked Mr Cs solicitor, it 
would confirm that the policy was in her sole name. 
That same month, Royal London rejected the complaint. It said the Minute Agreement from 
Ms Cs divorce did indeed state that the policy should be assigned to Ms C. However, its 
procedure was that it required a DoA to be drawn up by a solicitor to enact the wishes set 
out in the Minute of Agreement, as the DoA was a legal document which would transfer the 
policy into Ms Cs sole name. 
Royal London said it would also be prepared to accept a signed letter of authority from Mr C 
to allow it to pay the maturity proceeds to Ms C. While it sympathised with Ms Cs situation, 
without either of those steps being taken it was unable to process the maturity payment.
Royal London also told Ms C it would liaise with her ex-husbands solicitor and request that 
Ms C was kept updated. However, this action did not yield any material response. 
Ms C then brought her complaint to this service, with the assistance of her daughter. 
Royal London initially said it believed the complaint had been made outside of the time limits 
applying to this service. However, after further discussion with one of our investigators, it 
then provided consent for the complaint to be reviewed further. 
Our investigator then considered the complaint fully. She noted that whilst Mr C and Ms Cs 
Minute of Agreement referred to the policy, it did not sign the policy over to Ms C such that it 
would be reasonable to expect Royal London to pay 100% of the proceeds to her now. She 
said that whilst there was an ongoing dispute between the policyholders and the policy 
legally remained in joint names, she didnt think it was unreasonable for Royal London to 
refuse to pay out 100% of the policy to either party. 
Nevertheless, she asked Royal London if, given Ms Cs particular difficulties, a proportionate 
payment could be made to her for her share of the policy. After liaising with our investigator, 
Royal London agreed to this on the basis of a gesture of goodwill only.  
Our investigator recognised Ms C had said Royal London (then trading as the Co-operative 
Insurance) paid her compensation regarding a shortfall for another joint policy in 2013, 
without splitting the sum jointly with Mr C. She noted Royal London admitted it had made a 
mistake in doing so; our investigator said she didnt believe she ought to make a further 
mistake now, merely because it had done so previously. 
In summary, our investigator believed Royal London had made a fair proposal to Ms C in the 
circumstances, and she didnt think it should otherwise do more to resolve the complaint.  
Ms C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said the 
offer Royal London had made to resolve the complaint was unfair. She remains of the view 
that the Minute of Agreement shows she is entitled to the full proceeds of the policy, and 
Royal London ought to be ordered to pay 100% of the policy value to her. She also believes 
that Royal London ought to have done more to try to track down Mr C and make him sign 
over the policy to her, as agreed. 
Royal London did not have any additional comments for me to consider. Since our 
investigator was not minded to change her view, the complaint has now been referred to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything before me, I dont believe Royal London ought to do anything 
more to resolve the complaint. I recognise Ms C has been through a very difficult set of 
circumstances which determine that this matter cannot be resolved directly with Mr C. I 
certainly do not wish to make things harder for her. However, I cannot merely uphold a 
complaint because of my sympathy for a complainant; I have to be fair to both parties.
I do not believe I should direct Royal London to pay Ms C 100% of the policys maturity 
value. Ill expand on my reasons for this below.  
I do appreciate why Ms C has felt there has been some confusion around the policy payment 
because she was provided with compensation for a shortfall on another jointly held 
endowment policy in 2013 (which had been pursued several years earlier). However, Royal 
London says it paid the sum in error  the compensation should have been jointly settled. The correct response to a businesss mistake is to put a customer in the position they would 
have been in, but for that mistake. In the previous instance, Ms C received the full payment 
of shortfall compensation, as a sole complainant. Royal London has since explained how it 
should not have paid compensation out to one party, where the policy was jointly owned. 
It follows that I cannot direct Royal London to incorrectly settle this policy contrary to its 
procedures, merely because it may have made a mistake before. It has explained why it is 
not able to release the full proceeds to Ms C now, without a DoA or confirmation from Mr C 
that he relinquishes any entitlement to his 50% share of the maturity value. 
Matters were further confused because when Ms C called the Cooperative in August 2015. a 
call handler had suggested she did have authority for the policy in her sole name. However, 
a letter was then issued to Ms C dated 22 September 2015 which confirmed:
At the time, our contact centre adviser stated that ownership was in joint names and 
that a deed of absolute assignment would be required to change it into your name 
only. Further into the call, he then stated that he had found the required deed on our 
system and that ownership was in your name only.
On review, it appears the adviser was looking at the Minute of Agreement document 
and mistook this for an absolute assignment deed.
That means the ownership is still in the joint names of yourself and [Mr C]. 
We did send a letter to your solicitors in August 2012 advising a deed of absolute 
assignment would be needed, but unfortunately, our records show we never received 
a reply.
I recognise that (despite efforts from Royal London to contact Mr Cs solicitor) it is not 
possible for Ms C to have any direct contact with Mr C. However, Royal London hasnt asked 
Ms C to do so and whilst this matter is very sensitive, it isnt at fault for these circumstances.  
It is clear that Ms C and Mr Cs intention was to allow Ms C to retain the endowment policy 
for the purpose of receiving its future maturity value, which she says was intended to provide 
funds to her children. That is reflected in their wishes set out by the Minute of Agreement, 
which provided a legal framework to Ms C and Mr Cs agreed terms upon their separation.  
However, the Minute of Agreement is not sufficient evidence for Royal London to release the 
funds in full to Ms C. It has shown us that it has internal procedures which it must follow. And 
it says to satisfy its legal and regulatory requirements, Ms C is required to obtain a DoA 
(without any other consent from Mr C or his legal representatives). 
This was made clear to Ms C before the policy matured. In February 2016, after being 
reminded of the required DoA, Ms Cs solicitor told Royal London that we will proceed to 
obtain the necessary Deed of Assignment and will revert to you in respect of notice thereof.  
Unfortunately for Ms C, we do not act in the capacity of a regulator. Our decisions dont 
ordinarily interfere in how a business may conduct its operations, how it may exercise 
commercial judgment on the provision of a particular service or how it may seek to comply 
with legal requirements. That remit falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service 
provides dispute resolution; that means our duty is to make decisions based on what we 
consider fair and reasonable, having looked at the particular circumstances of a complaint. 
I do not believe I should direct Royal London to disregard a reasonable procedure to ensure 
it pays maturity values correctly. Justifiably, it has to satisfy itself that it has the legal authority to pay 100% of proceeds to one party under a previously jointly-held policy. 
Though the Minute of Agreement is legally binding, it differs from a DoA. A DoA formalises 
the express legal wishes of the parties from the Minute of Agreement  in this case, by 
transferring Mr Cs 50% share of the policy to Ms C. It is the latter that Royal London 
required, because Mr C cannot be located to provide alternative confirmation of his 
agreement to relinquish his right to a 50% share of the 2018 maturity value. Without that, 
Royal London could receive two conceivably legitimate claims to the same policy proceeds.
Though that situation is distressing and upsetting for Ms C, Royal London hasnt acted 
unreasonably in accounting for its obligation to both customers until such time that it is 
supplied with its required legal documentation confirming assignment of Mr Cs share of the 
policy to Ms C. The Minute of Agreement is not sufficient in these circumstances and this 
was reasonably conveyed to Ms Cs legal representatives in both 2012 and 2016. 
  
Notwithstanding that I do not believe Royal London to have acted unfairly, I am pleased to 
note it has agreed to an ex-gratia settlement of 50% of the maturity value to Ms C for her 
share of the policy proceeds. To that end, Royal London has issued a letter dated 26 
October 2022 offering to settle Ms Cs share of the policy, with interest from the maturity 
date. I believe this to be a fair and reasonable proposal to resolve the matter.
Ms C may otherwise wish to seek legal advice about pursuing the remaining share of the 
policy through a DoA or other means of enforcement.
Putting things right
Royal London has explained clearly to Ms C that the policy proceeds are payable in joint 
names; without a formal DoA, payment cannot be made in whole to either party. It has, 
however, agreed to pay 50% of the proceeds (£8,822.74) to Ms C as a goodwill gesture. 
To this sum, Royal London has agreed to add interest payable from the date of maturity to 
the date of payment. To confirm, this interest must be calculated at 8%, as Ms C has been 
deprived of use of her share of the policy proceeds since 1 April 2018. 
If Royal London considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it 
should issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Ms C may be able to reclaim the 
tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint insofar as I agree that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited has made a reasonable offer of £8,822.74 to resolve this complaint. I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances for settlement of Ms Cs share of the jointly owned policy and it 
should pay the proportionate 50% calculation to her, with interest, as directed above.  
I make no other award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman