DRN-3939584
The complaint
Miss F complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
with RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI).
What happened
In December 2020, Miss F entered into a hire purchase agreement with RCI to acquire a 
brand-new car. The cash price of the car was around £31,630. Miss Fs monthly repayments 
on the agreement were around £454 over a 48-month period. There was also a final 
repayment  customer option of around £13,834. In addition to these, Miss F selected an 
optional service plan for which she was paying approximately £5 a month. 
Miss F has told our service that shortly after she acquired the car, she started to experience 
issues with it. Below is a list of issues Miss F said she had experienced, plus a short 
summary of when she said that these were first noticed or bought to the attention of the 
service department: 
- Heating/aircon loud noise at beginning of its operation and leaking air vent  Miss F 
said that the noise was there from day one in January 2021;   
- Car charger issues  within the first month of purchase; 
- Key batteries not lasting long enough  Miss F said that she has replaced the 
batteries many times on both, the main key and the spare key;
- Grill  Miss F said that she was under the impression that her car would come with a 
different grill; 
- B Mode not working properly causing the car to jolt forward  started only a few 
months after its acquisition;
- Rust on the undercarriage of the car - spotted in September 2021;
- Breaks squeaking  initially checked in September 2021, and were lubricated on 
many occasions but Miss F says they are still squeaky; 
- Mobile phone application issues (being unable to use certain functions)   Miss F 
said that the application has last fully worked in September 2021; 
- Active Braking System not working properly due to an issue with the sensor  first 
noticed and reported to the dealership in September 2021; 
- Steering Wheel was damaged/scratched whilst the car was in for a service;
- Cabin filter needed replacing in January 2021;
- Tyre pressure gauge issues  Miss F said this was showing incorrectly prior to the 
last car health check that was completed in April 2022; 
- Drivers side handle getting stuck in an outward position  approximately started to 
happen mid-2022; 
Overall, Miss F was unhappy with the car and felt that a lot of the above issues were
not fixed, so she raised a complaint with RCI. 
In April 2022, RCI wrote to Miss F. They said that her car was booked into the dealership on 
12th April 2022 to investigate the noise when heating is on and the rust under the car. And 
following inspection, the dealership found that the rust under the car is normal surface rust 
so not a concern. They also said that the dealership was unable to replicate any noise in 
relation to the heating and that they were also unable to replicate the issue with the brakes 
squeal. RCI said that the dealership did, however, offer to remove and clean the breaks, but 
as this would not be covered under the terms of the warranty, this offer was declined. RCI 
said that the dealerships investigation found that the air-conditioning needed re-gassing 
which was completed at no cost to Miss F and two replacement batteries for the key cards 
were provided. RCI also offered £150 to Miss F as a gesture of goodwill for the 
inconvenience this matter has caused her. RCI went on to say that, if Miss F is looking to 
come out of the finance agreement, she may wish to consider selling the car and settling the 
finance agreement in full.
Miss F was not happy with this, so she referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought that the car had developed a fault, and it was of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied. More specifically, he thought that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at point of supply due to faults with the front sensor and the wireless charging. But he 
was of the opinion that the faults had now been repaired under warranty at no cost to Miss F. 
And he felt that the £150 offered by RCI to Miss F for the distress and inconvenience was 
fair and reasonable. He did however partly uphold the complaint and asked RCI to reimburse 
Miss F for any additional cost she incurred when obtaining courtesy cars whilst her car was 
being repaired. 
RCI agreed with the investigator. 
But Miss F disagreed and thought that she should be able to return the car without having 
anything further to pay. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual 
detail. But Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the right 
outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Miss F acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. RCI is the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for dealing with complaints about 
their quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements such as the one 
Miss F entered into. Under the agreement there is an implied term that the goods supplied 
will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered to be of 
satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid, and other relevant circumstances. I think in this case, those relevant circumstances include, but are not 
limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of 
the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Miss Fs case the car was brand-new, with a cash price of around £31,630. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be of a higher quality than a cheaper and/or previously 
used car. I think it would also be reasonable to expect the car to last a considerable period of 
time before significant problems occurr, and it would be reasonable to expect it to be free 
from even minor defects shortly after it was acquired.
Miss F thinks that she should be entitled to reject the car. And if that is not an option, she 
thinks that RCI should fix all outstanding issues and provide her with a correspondence that 
indicates all issues have been resolved. 
The CRA sets out that Miss F has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if 
the car is of unsatisfactory quality, however, she would need to ask for rejection within that 
time. Miss F would not be able to retrospectively exercise her short term right of rejection at 
a later date.
Miss F purchased the car in December 2020. Shortly after, she started to experience 
problems with the car. The dealership fixed some faults, but Miss F said that several of the 
faults are still present, so, she would like to reject the car. Miss F may have spotted some of 
the faults within the first 30 days. But even if I accept there were faults which made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality, Miss F only had a short term to reject the car within the first 30 days, 
and only if she expressed her wish to do so. Ive not seen any evidence which shows that 
she expressed her wish to reject the car within that time and later she did exercise her right 
to repair. 
The CRA says that, if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described, 
then Miss F would still be entitled to still return it after 30 days, but she wouldnt have the 
right to reject the car until she has exercised her right to repair  this is called her final right 
to reject. So, Miss F doesnt have an automatic right to return the car if theres a fault. For 
me to conclude that Miss F can now exercise her right to reject the car, I would need to see 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and that RCIs one attempt at the repair has failed. 
Considering the age and mileage of the car, and the faults Miss F experienced with the 
charging of the car and the Active Braking System not working properly (due to issue with 
the sensor), I think a reasonable person wouldnt consider it reasonable for the car to have 
such faults of such significance so soon after acquisition. So, I dont think the car was 
sufficiently durable. For this reason, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality.
In September 2021 the dealership diagnosed the car and this time the above-mentioned 
faults were fixed, and the car was returned to Miss F in October 2021. Ive not seen enough 
to say that most likely the two faults mentioned above have reoccurred. Considering that the 
repair appears to have been successful, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Miss 
F to be able to now exercise her right to reject the car. 
I have considered that Miss F thinks that the fault with the Active Breaking System is still 
present in the car, but based on what Ive been given I cant say that most likely this fault is 
still present. 
Miss F also said that there are many other faults that are still not fixed. So, Ive considered 
what she has told our service and Ive taken into consideration the evidence that has been provided such as what RCI have said and the inspection report commissioned by Miss F. I 
will cover each alleged fault one by one below. 
Heating/aircon loud noise at beginning of its operation, leaking air vent, and a cabin filter 
needed replacing 
Miss F sent us a video of the noise she is referring to and a picture of, what appears to be, 
liquid coming from the air vent. RCI said that the dealerships investigation found the air-
conditioning needed re-gassing which was completed and in January 2021 the cabin filter 
was replaced. In the video that Miss F gave us there still seems to be a small popping 
sound, so Ive considered whether this is a fault. The report Miss F provided said that the 
noise in question was evident only momentarily after switching on the heater, but when all 
settings and temperatures were checked it was confirmed they were operating satisfactorily. 
And the report said that in their opinion this was a characteristic of this model of car. It also 
said that AC refrigerant has been re-gassed by the supplying dealer and when the car was 
compared to one of the same model this same noise was present. I know Miss F said that 
when she drove a newer model of her car the noise wasnt there but based on that alone I 
cant say that most likely there is a fault with her car. Newer models can have different 
systems, the car couldve been a different specification to her model, or even, this aspect 
may have been improved since, but that doesnt automatically mean that her car has a fault. 
So based on all the available evidence I cant conclude that most likely there is a fault with 
the heating and cooling system in the car in question.
Key batteries not lasting long enough 
Miss F said that she has replaced the batteries on many occasions, but there can be many 
reasons for batteries not lasting long enough and based on what Ive been given I cant say 
that, on balance, there is a fault with the main key and/or the spare key of the car. 
Grill 
Miss F said that she was under the impression that her car would come with a different grill, 
but Ive not been presented with any evidence that would allow me to say that the supplying 
dealership told her that the car would come with a different type of grill.
B Mode not working properly causing the car to jolt forwards 
Miss F has provided our service with a video, where she said that her dash cam captured 
showing that the car speeds up slightly from 14mph to 17mph. She said this is the only 
evidence she can get of the car jolting forwards. But this evidence is not enough for me to 
say that most likely there is a fault with the cars B mode. From the video I cant tell if it is 
the system working properly or not and I cant tell what causes the car to accelerate or to 
slow down. Plus, I considered that the report provided by Miss F said that when the car was 
road tested in B Mode this allowed the car to slow down and stop without applying the foot 
break. So based on everything I cant say that most likely there is a fault with the cars B 
mode.
Rust on the undercarriage of the car 
Miss F provided our service with a link to a video where an older model of her car is shown 
and that one has no rust in the spots, she believed that her car does. Ive looked at the video 
but I dont think this is evidence that Miss Fs car shouldnt have rust in the area in question. 
Different cities, climates or even times of day and where a car is driven can have impact on 
the amount of corrosion a car has. RCI have said that the dealership was of the opinion that 
the rust under the car is normal surface rust of no concern. The inspection report that Miss F 
provided to our service only mentions slight surface corrosion and it concluded that it is part 
of normal in-service usage and that it requires no rectification. So, taking everything into consideration, I cant say that most likely the rust evidenced on the undercarriage of the car 
makes it not durable.   
Breaks squeaking 
RCI said that the dealership was unable to replicate any noise in relation to the brake squeal 
at the time. Miss F has provided our service with a video showing the brakes making some 
minor but evident noise. Ive considered the age and mileage of the car when this issue was 
raised with the dealership in September 2021, alongside the fact that brakes are subject to 
wear and tear. And Miss Fs report said that minimal wear to the visible pads was consistent 
with the indicted mileage the car had travelled at the time. So overall I dont think Miss Fs 
car was faulty at the point of supply  or that this means it wasnt durable - because of the 
intermittent noise of the brakes being heard as I think its most likely this is just due to normal 
wear and tear. 
Mobile phone application issues (being unable to use certain functions)
Miss F said that since September 2021 her mobile car application is not working properly. 
The inspection report she has provided did confirm that the application was not 
communicating with the car. It said there was no specific reason for this and that it could be 
that the car requires a software update, or it could be that Miss Fs mobile phone is not 
compatible with the application. Technology changes from time to time, so I cant say that 
most likely this issue is down to a fault with the car as opposed to something that is generally 
required as part of the ongoing maintenance of the car.
Tyre pressure gauge issues 
Miss F said this was showing incorrectly prior to the last car health check that was 
completed in April 2022. The report she had provided said that the tyre pressure monitoring 
system confirmed that the tyre pressures were too high, therefore requiring adjustment to be 
within manufacturers specification. It said that when the car is in use, the tyre pressure will 
undoubtedly increase as the tyre temperature increases as a result of normal in-service 
usage and, as per the owners handbook, needs to be checked on regular basis. The report 
also concluded that the tyre pressure monitoring light did not appear on the dashboard 
indicating the system was working correctly. Based on all of the above I cant say that most 
likely there was any fault with this system. 
I understand that later, while Miss Fs complaint was at our service, she said that a warning 
light on the dashboard for the tyre pressure had come on. She also told us that this issue 
has now been repaired at the beginning of 2023. But this issue has occurred a long time 
after Miss F had acquired the car. So, I cant say that most likely this issue was present or 
started to develop at the point of supply.
Drivers side handle getting stuck in an outward position 
Miss F sent our service a photo that shows that the handle is getting stuck in the open 
position. Miss F said that this approximately started to happen mid-2022 at which point she 
already had the car for approximately a year to a year and a half. So, I cant say that most 
likely this issue was present or started to develop at the point of supply or that this makes 
the car not sufficiently durable.
I know that Miss F was also unhappy with a couple of other aspects, so for completeness I 
will cover these off below. 
She mentioned that when her car was in for servicing the steering wheel was 
damaged/scratched, but this has now been rectified for her and it is not something that RCI 
is liable for.Miss F has told our service that, as a side note, when she drove the car, she left her house 
with 27% battery and normally she uses about 6% when commuting to work. But after a few 
minutes of her arriving at work, the battery had depleted to 8%. She said this has never 
happened before and that she had to go and charge the car during her lunch break. Ive 
considered this but Ive also considered that the report she had provided to our service said 
that, if there were issues with the battery storage, there would be a warning light displayed 
on the drivers information panel to confirm that the battery performance was not within 
manufacturers specification. Also, Ive considered that there are many things that can affect 
the battery usage and Ive not seen any evidence that shows that most likely the battery is 
not functioning correctly. Miss F has also told our service that this issue has not reoccurred. 
Overall, I dont think Miss F has demonstrated that the repairs previously completed have 
now failed, therefore giving her the right to reject the car. So, while I sympathise with the 
situation Miss F finds herself in, I dont think I can reasonably require RCI to allow her to 
exercise her right to reject the car. 
As I said above, most likely, the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply and 
this matter caused Miss F a lot of distress and inconvenience when trying to resolve it. I think 
it was also very stressful for her when the car was giving her issues with the charging and 
the issue she experienced with the sensor linked to the Active Braking System. And I know 
she had to bring the car to the dealerships service department more than once for repairs, 
among other reasons, to have the steering wheel replaced. So, I dont think she wouldve 
needed to do some of those things had RCI supplied her with a car that was of a satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. But I think RCI offer of £150 in compensation fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss F.
Furthermore, while the car was being fixed, she needed to source a courtesy car for which 
she has incurred expenses. Had the car been of satisfactory quality she wouldnt have 
incurred these expenses, so I think that it is fair and reasonable that RCI refund her the cost 
of the courtesy car she incurred during that time upon production of evidence for these 
expenses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I think RCI Financial Services Limiteds should:
- Refund any costs Miss F incurred for courtesy cars while her car was repaired, plus 
add 8% simple interest per year to these refunds, from the date of each payment to 
the date of settlement;
- Pay Miss F £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused if this 
has not yet been paid.
If RCI Financial Services Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest element 
of my award, they should provide Miss F with a certificate showing how much they have 
taken off so she can reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman