DRN-2065755
The complaint
Mr C complains that CIS General Insurance Limited has turned down a storm damage claim 
he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, following storm conditions, Mr C suffered internal damage to his home 
and his shed collapsed. Mr C arranged for his shed to be disposed of. He made a claim on 
his policy for the skip hire costs and costs of replacing the shed; and for the costs of putting 
right the internal damage.
CIS appointed a surveyor to inspect Mr Cs home. The surveyor didnt think either the shed 
damage or internal damage were down to a one-off event of storm. He thought water had 
been getting into Mr Cs home over a period of time. And he felt the photos hed seen of the 
shed showed signs of rot and decay in the timbers. So he thought the damage had 
happened gradually, over time. He considered the storm conditions had simply highlighted 
the poor condition of the shed. 
Based on the surveyors report, CIS turned down Mr Cs claim. Thats because it said the 
damage wasnt caused by storm. And as Mr C didnt have accidental damage cover, it said 
the damage wasnt covered by any other section of the policy. 
Mr C was unhappy with CIS decision. He considered the storm conditions were the 
proximate cause of the internal and shed damage. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He looked at photos of the 
internal water damage and thought, given the mould that was present, it was consistent with 
damage thatd happened over time. And hed considered the surveyors report, together with 
photos of the shed before the storm. He felt there was clear evidence of wear and tear. So 
he didnt think the storm was the main cause of the shed damage.
Mr C accepted that the internal damage wasnt covered. But he still thought the costs of 
replacing the shed and the skip hire should be covered. He accepted the shed was old and 
showed signs of decay. But he maintained that the cause of the sheds collapse was the 
storm. He referred to insurance case law and felt that but for the storm, the shed wouldve 
remained standing and in use.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. As Mr C has accepted the investigators view 
that the internal damage claim isnt covered, I wont be considering this point any further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for CIS to turn down Mr Cs shed damage claim. Ill explain 
why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
CIS acknowledges that there were prevailing storm conditions in the days around the date 
Mr Cs shed collapsed. Its provided weather reports which show wind speeds of up to 83 
mph a couple of days after Mr C told us he noticed the damage and very high wind speeds 
in the days immediately prior. So I agree that there were storm conditions on or around the 
date of the claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Structural damage to buildings and outbuildings can be consistent with storm damage. So I 
also think the answer to this question is yes.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly that the storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage to his shed. And that if the storm hadnt happened, the shed wouldve remained 
intact. Ive thought carefully about what hes said.
But in making my decision, I also have to bear in mind the expert evidence thats been 
provided to me. So Ive looked closely at the surveyors report. As Mr C had already 
disposed of the shed, the surveyor was limited to assessing photographic evidence. Having 
considered photos of the shed before and after the storm, he didnt think the storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage. He said:
It has been noted that there are no visual signs of any storm or impact damage to the shed 
in question.It is showing signs of rot and decay in the timbers attached to the shed and 
has been highlighted by the severe weather conditions that it could not withstand high winds. 
This is not a one-off event of storm related damage and down to general wear and tearIn 
my considered opinion, the damage was the result of a gradual process loss.
Like the surveyor, Ive also looked carefully at the photos of the damage and the shed as it 
was around two and a half years beforehand. I agree that the shed shows signs of ageing, of 
wear and tear and it does appear to be in a weathered condition.  This means I think the 
available evidence supports the surveyors conclusions. Ive also noted that Mr C hasnt 
provided any independent expert evidence to counter the surveyors findings. So Ive placed 
significant weight on the surveyors report.On balance, I think that the main cause of the shed damage was most likely wear and tear 
over time and that the damage happened gradually. So I think the answer the third question 
is no. Wear and tear and gradually operating causes are also specifically excluded by the 
terms of the policy. Overall, Ive decided it was fair for CIS to turn down Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman