DRN-2003489
The complaint
Mr F complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited cancelled his car insurance due to 
incorrect information being provided. Hes unhappy this has been recorded on his record, 
and about how itll affect his insurance premiums in the future.  Mr F is also unhappy about 
information that he was given regarding a refund.
For the avoidance of doubt Skyfire accepts responsibility for its agents  so for ease of 
reading all reference to Skyfire include its agents.
What happened
Skyfire cancelled Mr Fs policy when it discovered that the information given when the policy 
was incepted was incorrect. Skyfire then mis-advised Mr F as to the amount of refund that 
was due to him. He was told he was due a refund of £1223.94 when in fact he had paid only 
£355.52 and there was a balance of £62 outstanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mr F will be disappointed by my decision, I 
am not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer 
fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - 
what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Mr Fs Father provided the incorrect date for when Mr F obtained his driving licence  
it was over a year earlier than the correct date. During a phone call with Skyfire on 1 
September 2019 he said hed guessed as he wasnt sure. I think its reasonable that 
he ought to have checked this before making the application on behalf of his son. 
Mr Fs father did provide the correct year when obtaining other insurance quotes at 
the same time. Im satisfied he knew that this was information relevant to the insurer, 
but he opted for the Skyfire quote because it was the cheapest although he was 
aware at the time of the application the information hed provided was or maybe 
incorrect. 
Although Mr Fs father disclosed a previous fault accident, Im satisfied that a 
qualifying misrepresentation was made in respect of the date that Mr F passed his 
test. I find that Skyfire has shown that the misrepresentation was reckless and had 
the correct date been provided the insurance would have been provided on different 
terms. That is, the premium would have been greater.
Mr F says that he now has to pay higher insurance premiums because of this 
incident and would like compensation. But Im satisfied that in cancelling his policy for 
the reckless misrepresentation Skyfire acted in accordance with the provisions of the 
CIDRA and was entitled to act as it did. 
Mr F would have also had the opportunity to review his policy documentation, which 
included the incorrect information provided by his father, following the application 
made. I think its reasonable to expect he should have checked this and let Skyfire 
know there was an error. 
Skyfire have refunded Mr F the cancellation fee they charged, written off the 
outstanding balance of £62 and awarded £100 compensation for providing him with 
incorrect information about the refund due. I find that Mr F was caused 
inconvenience in having to chase for the refund and then disappointment when he 
was advised that the quote originally given had been incorrect. Likewise being 
chased for the outstanding balance would have caused upset and confusion. But in 
the circumstances, Im satisfied that by foregoing the outstanding amount, refunding 
the cancellation charge and paying £100 was fair compensation for the 
inconvenience Mr F experienced. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman