DRN-2338487
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim made
against his commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2018, Mr K began some renovation works on a rental property that he owned.
In November 2018, there was a fire at the property which caused significant damage to the
roof and upper floor. So Mr K made a claim on his commercial property insurance policy.
Aviva accepted Mr Ks claim and erected scaffolding in January 2019, which included a tin
hat design to keep the property protected from the weather. Shortly after this works began
to replace the roof and affected areas of the property. These works were completed around
the end of March 2019. As Mr K was already carrying out renovations to the property, Aviva
offered him a cash settlement towards the cost of the internal repairs.
Mr K is unhappy with the length of time it took to repair the roof and says the property was
left open to the elements for a significant amount of time which caused further damage. He
is also unhappy with the settlement amount Aviva has offered and says it doesnt take into
account the water damage caused by the hoses used to put out the fire, which caused
additional damage to the lower floors of the property. He says that due to the length of time
taken to fix this issue, he has lost out on rental income and says that Avivas contractors
damaged his guttering and refused to fix it.
On 30 September 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Im thinking of reaching a different conclusion to our investigator and Ill explain why.
the cash settlement
Under the terms of the policy, Aviva is entitled to settle the claim through a cash settlement if
it chooses to do so. In this case, I can see that Aviva considered it inappropriate to carry out
the works itself as it had concerns about the work that had been carried out by Mr Ks own
contractors as part of his refurbishment, which it believed had left the property unsafe. As it
was left with no choice but to offer a cash settlement due to the existing renovation, I think
its fair that Aviva has offered a cash settlement in line with the amount it would have cost its
own contractors to repair the damage, rather than the amount Mr K actually paid for the
repairs.
damp issues in the property
Mr K says it took a long time for the roof to be reinstated and as a result of the property
being left without a roof over winter and the hoses used to extinguish the fire, his property
has been suffering from damp  which he believes should be covered under the policy.
Aviva has acknowledged that there were some initial delays due to the availability of its
contractors. And it has offered Mr K a total of £300 in recognition of this. While there was a
minor delay at the beginning, I can see from its system notes that Aviva was actively working
on progressing Mr Ks claim and that due to the nature of the damage, the scaffolding and
tin hat roof needed to be designed before it could be erected. So taking everything into
account, I dont think there were significant avoidable delays, so I think the £300 Aviva has
offered is more than I would have recommended, and I wont be asking it to do anything
more.
Mr K has also said that the delay in replacing the roof caused further damp issues in the
property. But the evidence I have from a surveyor suggests there were issues with the damp
proof membrane, which it believes is causing the damp issues. Aviva investigated drying out
the property, but the surveyor declined to do this as he suspected there could be asbestos in
the flooring and it would be dangerous to install professional drying equipment  so the
property was left to dry naturally, and tests were carried out to ensure this had happened.
Based on the information Ive received, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly in concluding that
the damp issues were due to an existing problem with the damp proof membrane, rather
than as the result of the hoses used to put out the fire or any weather conditions prior to the
tin hat being erected. Aviva has offered a cash settlement for Mr K to create a new damp
proof membrane over the existing tiles and this appears to be a fair resolution in the
circumstances.
electrics
Mr K says he needed to rewire the entire property as a result of the fire. But Aviva states that
only the wiring on the first floor were damaged as a result of the fire. It is difficult to say what
damage was caused by specifically by the fire, or whether a full rewire was needed in order
to repair the damage or simply because of the age of the wiring in the property.
The only professional opinion here states that the property had required a full rewire due to
its age  and that was the case before the fire. It also confirmed that the fire only affected the
first-floor wiring. So on balance, I think its fair for Aviva to only cover the upstairs wiring,
which was the only part the electrician believes was affected by the fire.
loss of rent
I have considered Mr Ks loss of rent claim. Mr K has been unable to rent out the property
while the works were ongoing, and his policy provides cover for this. However, as Mr Ks
property wasnt tenanted before the fire, Aviva has declined to cover Mr Ks loss of rent.
However Mr K has provided a signed rent contract showing that shortly before the fire, Mr K
had agreed for the property to be rented out from December 2018 onwards at a cost of £650
per month. It isnt clear whether the works Mr K was already having done would have been
completed by that time, given the extent of the outstanding work just weeks before the
tenant was due to move in (when the fire took place). However, I do think that Mr K has
evidenced that he had a tenant lined up to rent the property when it was complete  and the
works to the roof delayed that.
So while the property wasnt rented out at the time of the fire, as it was due to be rented out
shortly after, I think the fire delayed this. The fire damage that Aviva took responsibility for
repairing was completed and the property was handed back to Mr K at the end of March
2019. So I think it would be fair for Aviva to pay for Mr Ks loss of rent from 1 December
2018 to the date it handed the property back to Mr K, which was around four months.
From that point, I consider that while there would have been some delay due to some
additional works that needed to be completed, the majority of the delay from April 2019
onwards would have been caused by the contractors completing the renovations on the
property, which would have been the case regardless of the fire.guttering
Finally Mr K has raised concerns about Avivas contractors damaging the guttering at his
property. Although Mr K has spoken to Aviva about this, I cant see that it has looked into a
complaint about it. If Mr K is able to evidence the damage and that it was caused by Aviva
then he should provide this to Aviva so it can consider it.
Aviva responded to say it didnt agree with my findings. It says it has never seen a copy of a 
signed rent contract and it is unclear how it has suddenly come to light. It also said that when 
the fire took place, there were still extensive renovation works that needed to be carried out 
so it didnt think it was likely the property would have been completed before December, 
when the tenancy agreement was due to start.
Mr K responded to say that he didnt agree with my findings and provided several points for 
me to consider. He thought that all of the damage was caused by the fire  so his costs 
should be met in full. He also specified that he doesnt think the settlement offered by Aviva 
is enough as he says delay in protecting the roof of the property exposed the property to 
further damage, as did the amount of water used by the fire brigade to put out the fire.
So, the complaint has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that this complaint should be upheld in part. Ill 
explain why.
Mr K has raised some new concerns, such as the quality of the repairs to the property and 
items that had been damaged in the lower level of the property, that dont appear to have 
been raised with Aviva at the point he raised his complaint with this service. And it doesnt 
seem Aviva have had a chance to review these concerns and decide whether to take further 
action. Mr K will need to raise any issue with the quality of the works directly with Aviva to 
consider in the first instance.
Mr K has also said that Aviva should reimburse him for all the repairs to the property as the 
damage was all caused by fire however I dont agree. Mr K, by his own admission, was 
having the property renovated at the time of the fire. Many of the works were still ongoing 
and needed to be finished. Some of the works Mr K has set out were items that needed to 
be carried out before the fire so wouldnt be covered under the policy. So I dont agree that 
Aviva should reimburse Mr K the entire amount of the works he has set out.
Mr K has highlighted the report he commissioned himself and that it stated that the repairs 
would cost in excess of £11,000. I have considered the scope of works Mr K has provided, 
however I dont find this compelling to show that Mr K has incurred additional expenses that 
Aviva needs to pay as part of this claim. 
The scope of work appears to set out the works still required to get the property back to a 
habitable condition  but the property wasnt in a habitable condition before the fire. It 
includes items such as carpets and painting, which appear to have been works that were 
due to be carried out as part of the renovation and hadnt been completed yet. So, as Mr K 
hasnt suffered a loss of or damage to those items in line with the policy terms, I dont think 
these items need to be covered under the policy terms.And I havent seen that Mr K has provided Aviva with any evidence that shows any of the 
additional works had already been carried out prior to the fire. However if Mr K can produce 
evidence that these works took place prior to the fire and he has had to pay for them twice 
(for example if he had previously had plastering carried out and has had to pay for the same 
costs again) then I would expect Aviva to reconsider its position. 
Mr K has also said that he has been told by numerous electricians that it is unsafe to rewire 
only the upstairs of the property as the downstairs is damp. And he has raised several points 
about the damp in the property which he says has damaged several items and about items 
damaged in the fire such as windows that he has had to pay for. However he hasnt provided 
either Aviva or this service with any compelling evidence to support that the damage is a 
result of the fire and the events that followed. So on balance, I dont think it would be fair for 
me to ask Aviva to cover those items at this stage. However I would expect Aviva to 
reconsider this if new evidence were to come to light.
Mr K has raised several concerns about the amount Aviva has paid him  and I can see why 
he finds the amount offered concerning when considering it against the amount he has paid. 
However, it is for Mr K to evidence that there has been a loss that Aviva needs to reimburse 
him for  and I dont think hes done that.
The survey he had completed appears to be a scope of works and doesnt comment on 
whether the damage was caused solely as a result of the fire or whether these are works Mr 
K wouldve needed to have carried out anyway. And it isnt clear from what Mr K has said 
whether several items such as the plastering and staircase were damaged solely as the 
result of the fire and the fire brigade putting this out  or whether they were already in a poor 
state of repair. 
The role of this service is to consider whether the actions taken by Aviva when settling the 
claim were reasonable, not to step into the role of a claims handler. In this case, I dont think 
Mr K has provided persuasive evidence to support most of the additional expenses he wants 
Aviva to cover as part of this claim. So I dont think I can fairly ask Aviva to pay for these 
items based on the current evidence. However if Mr K provides Aviva with further evidence 
to support his position then I would expect it to consider this afresh.
Aviva has responded to say it didnt think the property was likely to have been completed 
before December, when the tenancy agreement was due to start. And based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think its likely thats the case. However, I have taken the overall delay 
caused by Avivas handling of the claim into account when deciding the dates it should make 
loss of rent payments for and I remain of the opinion that the delay caused as a direct result 
of Aviva was around four months. I say this because that was the time it took it to complete 
the repairs it says were necessary as a result of the fire and return the property to Mr K. Mr 
K still had works to complete after the fire, as he would have done if the fire hadnt taken 
place and I have taken that into consideration.
So for the reasons outlined above, nothing either party has submitted has changed my 
opinion and I remain of the opinion that Aviva needs to take steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Aviva should put things right by:
Paying Mr K his loss of rent at a cost of £650 per month from 1 December 2018 to 28 
March 2019, when the property was handed back to him.Paying Mr K the £300 compensation it has already offered him.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited in part. Aviva 
Insurance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman