The complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
The monthly premium for the policy was initially £19.75 and it covered Mr S against not 
being able to work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. In the event of 
a successful claim the policy could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
In 2012 the policy was amended to cover accident and sickness only and the monthly benefit 
was reduced from £327 to £226.  
Mr S says Santander set up the PPI policy without his knowledge and he only found out hed 
been charged for PPI in 2017.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Santander hasnt been able to show us the paperwork from the time and has limited 
information about the sale. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that 
has gone by since the sale took place. But where there is limited information, I will make my 
decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence 
available, what both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive first looked at whether its likely Mr S was told about the policy and given a fair choice 
about buying it.
Mr S has told us he cant recall the PPI being discussed and he says it was set up without 
his knowledge.
Ive thought carefully about this. Santander has been able to show us a copy of a welcome 
letter addressed to Mr S in July 2000. In the letter it gives brief details of the policy and 
states when the direct debits would commence.
DRN-1745709I also note the policy insurer has told us Mr S contacted it to make amendments to the policy 
in 2012.
And I have to take into account that the premiums for the policy were paid for with a 
separate direct debit to the mortgage. So the premiums would have appeared on Mr S 
monthly bank statements for 17 years until it was cancelled in 2017. If the PPI was 
something he didnt want or had not agreed to, Id expect him to have questioned the 
premiums at an early stage, but Ive not seen any evidence that he did.
Taking everything into account I think it is most likely that Mr S was told about the PPI and 
that it was optional and he agreed to take out the policy, although its understandable that he 
may not recall this after so many years.
Santander recommended the policy to Mr S, so it had to take steps to ensure it was right for 
him. Looking at his circumstances at the time I think it was. Ill explain why:
Mr S was working and was eligible for the cover. And he wasnt affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations contained in the terms and conditions. For instance, he has told us 
he had no pre-existing medical conditions that would not have been covered. So Mr S would 
have been able to make a successful claim if he needed to.
Mr Ss employer wouldve paid him some sick pay. But this policy could have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and for up to 12 months. So I still think Mr S wouldve found the 
policy useful, especially if he couldnt work for an extended period.
Until the policy was amended in 2012 the PPI would also have paid a monthly benefit if Mr S 
had lost his job, meaning any redundancy pay couldve been used for other living costs.
Mr S had some savings, but he chose to keep the savings rather than have a smaller 
mortgage so its likely the savings were important to him. And the PPI would mean Mr S 
wouldnt need to dip into his savings to pay the mortgage if he couldnt work.
So I think the policy Santander recommended was right for Mr S. Santander also had to give 
Mr S clear information so he could decide whether to take the policy out.
I cant know what was said at the meeting in 2000. And it could be that Santander did not 
give Mr S all the clear information it should have. So I next need to think about whether its 
likely Mr S would have acted differently if hed been given clear information about the policy.
I think Mr S agreed to take out the PPI so I think he was interested in this type of cover. And 
the policy was right for him. The monthly premiums seem to have been affordable and 
competitive with other, similar polices, from around that time. So even if Santander had 
given Mr S all the clear information it should have, I still think it is likely he would have gone 
ahead and taken out the policy.
In summary, I think Mr S was given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy and he 
chose to take it out. I think the policy was right for him. And even if he was given clearer 
information about the policy hed still have bought it.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman