DRN-3560366
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service that National Westminster Bank Plc has provided when he 
tried to use his credit card. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Mr S is unhappy that a block was put on his new credit card, while he was linking it to an 
application on his mobile phone which he required for travel purposes. At the time Mr S was 
travelling from Qatar to Jordan. He had used the application before and his old NatWest 
credit card was linked to it. As Mr S had received a new card, he needed to update the new 
details on the application before he could use it. After doing so his card was declined. As 
such he had to use another credit card which caused FX charges. The purpose for choosing 
the NatWest credit card was due to it having zero FX costs for overseas usage. Mr S says 
he eventually found out a block had been put on his account. 
I understand Mr S frustrations especially considering this was an application he had used 
before, and by simply updating his new credit card details caused a block to be put on the 
account. However, I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the account and reviewed 
the system notes provided by NatWest. Having done so I am satisfied that the terms and 
conditions allow NatWest to stop a transaction if it suspects it could put your account at risk. 
I can also see from the system notes provided that its system identified a risk with the 
activity on the account, so the block was applied. 
Mr S has said he cant accept that its NatWest policy to block a card for simply updating a 
secure application on his phone. Mr S would like more information as to why this triggered a 
risk which resulted in a block being applied. However, NatWest is not obliged to provide 
that information due to it being commercially sensitive. And while Mr S remains unhappy with 
this, I am satisfied the account terms and conditions allow NatWest to do so. As such, I wont 
be asking it to do anything further in relation to this point.
I have also considered the service NatWest provided once the card was blocked. Having 
reviewed the system notes I can see that NatWest tried to contact Mr S on 7 April 2022, its 
intentions was to ask Mr S to confirm it was him using the card and to remove the block. 
NatWest says it left a voicemail but Mr S states it didnt. I cant comment on whether a 
voicemail was left but I am satisfised NatWest made an attempt to contact Mr S on that day. 
I can also see a letter was sent to Mr S. However, I appreciate the letter didnt arrive until six 
days later and was no help to Mr S while he was abroad. But NatWest has explained it 
needed to speak to Mr S in order to get the block removed and I dont think that was 
unreasonable. I can see that an attempt to contact Mr S was made. Therefore, I cant say 
NatWest acted unfairly in regard to this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman