DRN-2240845
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-advised by Barclays Bank UK PLC to open share dealing 
accounts with it. He says Barclays knew it was poor advice due to issues within the financial 
system and he would like Barclays to reverse the consequences of him following its advice.
What happened
Mr B first opened an investment ISA with Barclays in 1999. The account was closed in 2005. 
He also opened a SharedealPlus account in 2001, which later became a Market Maker 
account. Hes traded since then with this account, which is still in operation today, through 
Barclays Smart Investor platform.
Mr B complained to Barclays in 2019 that hed been misadvised from the outset as his 
investments hadnt performed as he hoped, and they were unsuitable. He was also unhappy 
that he couldnt view his whole trading history.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had no evidence of Mr B having received 
advice to invest and explained that his ISA and other trading accounts were execution-only, 
meaning than any trading decisions were Mr Bs own. It noted that online access to his 
trading history was limited to post-2012, but that earlier records could be provided if 
required.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said, in brief:
Given the passage of time since Mr Bs first account was opened it wasnt 
surprising that Barclays had limited documentation available.
The application form it had supplied in respect of the account opened in 2001 
didnt indicate that any advice was given, which was in line with what Barclays 
had said about it being an execution-only account.
If no advice was provided Barclays nevertheless had a duty to provide 
information that clear and not mis-leading but there no evidence to show that it 
had done otherwise.
Mr Bs concerns with Barclays current risk warnings were regulatory issues.
His general points made about share trading should be directed to the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view. He made several points in response:
Barclays made money from trading even if there was no advice provided and it 
was deceitful to claim otherwise.
While there might not be any record of the advice, it was commonplace in the 
1980s for people to be persuaded to deal in shares and Barclays was still doing 
so today.
This meant that on the balance of probabilities he wouldve been advised, as that 
was how the industry worked
Barclays encouraged people to open execution-only accounts regardless of their 
circumstances.
Barclays had provided an unreasonable amount of documentation over the years 
and changed their terms and conditions many times.
Records should be kept as best practice.
Thered been a failure to disclose Barclays influence on regulation and lobbying 
of politicians.
Promotional material could have negative psychological impact.
Mr B also provided several press articles to support his submissions.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld, so the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Its clear Mr B has strong feelings about Barclays actions. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read and considered in their entirety. 
However, I trust that he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my 
decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them.
Much of what Mr B has said in support of his complaint relates to his general views about 
Barclays and the financial industry as a whole. These are concerns that are better directed 
towards the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. The role of this service is to 
consider individual disputes between consumers and financial businesses and where we 
decide the evidence supports a finding that a business acted incorrectly or unfairly, we direct 
it to put the consumer back in the position theyd be in if the error hadnt occurred.
In Mr Bs case, there is limited evidence available. I note his recollections about how he was 
advised when he first took out his investment ISA in 1999. But without any documentation to 
support this, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that he was advised to start the ISA or 
make any of the trades on it.
Despite the account opening having taken place over 20 years ago, I think if advice had 
been provided there would most likely be a record of it. And the fact that the later account, 
opened in 2001 seems  based on the application form at least  to have been an execution- 
only service, in my view supports the conclusion that all Mr Bs accounts and dealings with 
Barclays have been on an execution-only basis, as Barclays has indicated.
And in that respect, Ive not seen anything that suggests Barclays has provided Mr B with 
incorrect information or misled him in any other way. I appreciate he feels that the very 
existence of a financial industry that persuades people to deal in shares is wrong and has 
the potential to mislead. But, as noted, I have to look at the matter solely in terms of Mr Bs 
individual relationship with Barclays. And in doing so Ive not been persuaded that Barclays
has done anything wrong.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman