DRN-4185537
The complaint
Mr K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr K was looking to renew his car insurance. He wasnt happy with any of 
the quotes he found online, but he then received a phone call from someone who said they 
were from a major insurance company and could offer him a better price. The caller offered 
Mr K a couple of different prices, one of which he was happy with. So Mr K then made a 
payment from his Monzo account to the bank account details the caller gave him. 
Unfortunately we now know the caller was a scammer.
When he didnt receive any confirmation or details of the policy after making the payment, 
Mr K called the scammer back but didnt get a response. So Mr K then reported the payment 
to Monzo as a scam and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it didnt think Mr K had taken reasonable steps to check who he 
was paying, so it didnt agree to refund the money he had lost. It also said it had contacted 
the bank the money was sent to but hadnt received a response. Mr K wasnt satisfied with 
Monzos response, so referred a complaint to our service.
I sent Mr K and Monzo a provisional decision on 12 May 2023, setting out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has said it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment 
scams, like the one Mr K fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is 
for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr K have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Monzos main argument for not refunding the money Mr K lost has been that he didnt take 
reasonable steps to check who he was paying and ignored a number of red-flags about what 
he was told, and so he didnt have a reasonable basis for belief that the person he was 
paying was legitimate. So Ive considered that here.
Mr K received a phone call from someone saying they worked for an insurance company, 
and he says he believed they were genuine as they knew his name and that his insurance 
was due to renew soon. And while I dont think it was necessarily unreasonable for him to 
believe this, as he had been looking online for car insurance recently, I also dont think the 
caller was particularly convincing here or had any personal information about him that would 
have been particularly difficult to find out.
Apart from a screenshot they sent him of a letter with the companys logo on it, the caller 
doesnt appear to have offered Mr K any proof that they worked for the insurance company  
for example, the phone number they called him from is not one that is connected to the 
insurance company. And the letter in the screenshot Mr K was sent had some text in focus 
but some text out of focus, some text in different fonts to other text and some text in different 
colours to the other text. So I dont think this letter looked very convincing and I think it 
should have caused Mr K some concern about what he was being told and to question 
whether the person he was speaking to was genuine.
Mr K was also told the caller didnt have access to their emails or a printer, and so could only 
send him a screenshot of his policy cover letter. But I dont think its plausible that an 
employee of a company as large as the insurance company the caller said they worked for 
wouldnt be able to email or print off a letter, or would have to send screenshots of policy 
documents via an instant messaging app instead. So I think this should have caused Mr K 
significant concern about whether the person he was speaking to was genuine.
The payment details the caller gave Mr K were also for a personal account in the name of 
someone he didnt know, rather than for a business account. Mr K says he asked about this 
and was told the account was in the name of the insurance companys accountant. But I 
think its very unusual for a large company to ask a customer to make a payment directly into 
a personal account in the name of one of its employees, rather than into a business account 
in the companys name. So I think this should also have caused Mr K significant concern 
about what he was being asked to do and whether the person he was speaking to was 
genuine.
I appreciate that the caller had some information about Mr K and sounded professional and 
that they knew what they were talking about. But, overall, I think there were a number of 
things about what Mr K was told or was asked to do that should have caused him significant 
concern. And I dont think the parts of the call that seemed genuine or the information he 
was given by the scammers should have been enough to overcome those concerns.
So I think Monzo has established that Mr K didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when he 
made the payment. And so it has established that one of the exceptions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund Mr K all of the money he 
lost.
Did Monzo meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr K had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment, 
he may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money he lost if Monzo didnt meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings when it 
identifies a scam risk.
But this payment wasnt for a particularly large amount and didnt leave the balance of Mr Ks 
account at a particularly unusual level. So I dont think Monzo ought to have identified a 
scam risk here or was required to provide an effective warning before Mr K made this 
payment. So I dont think Monzo has failed to meet its obligations under the CRM code.
Did Monzo do enough to try to recover the money Mr K lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
Monzo says it contacted the bank the money was sent to, to try to recover the money Mr K 
had lost, but it hasnt received a response. And from what Ive seen of Monzos records, I 
think it contacted the bank the money was sent to within a reasonable amount of time and 
has done all wed expect it to do to try to recover the money. So I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
I said Id consider anything further Mr K and Monzo sent in following the provisional decision, 
provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo responded to the provisional decision saying it agreed with the outcome and didnt 
have anything further to add.
Mr K responded to the provisional decision asking for the case to be looked at again, and 
providing screenshots of the payment he had made, the policy cover letter he had been sent 
and the account details the payment had been sent to.
I appreciate how Mr K feels about this case, but I dont think any of the screenshots he has 
sent us in response to the provisional decision changes my opinion on the outcome here. He 
had previously sent us a screenshot of the policy cover letter he was sent. And we had also 
previously been sent evidence of how the payment was made and the account details it was 
sent to. So I had already considered this information when coming to my provisional 
decision.
As Mr K hasnt sent us any new information or arguments, I still think the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision are correct, and for the same reasons.
I still dont think Mr K had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. And I 
dont think Monzo has failed to meet its obligations under the CRM code. So I dont think 
Monzo is required to refund the money Mr K lost as a result of this scam.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman