DRN-4368377
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T complain about Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limiteds decision to 
decline Mr Ts claim for total and permanent disability (TPD) benefit under their life and 
critical illness policy. They also complain about delays in dealing with the claim.
What happened
In summary, in September 2001, Mrs T and Mr T took out joint life and critical illness cover. 
Their policy expired in September 2022.
Mrs T and Mr T initially contacted Scottish Friendly in October 2020, after Mr T was 
diagnosed with Covid-19. However, the policy didnt provide cover for Covid-19 or long 
Covid. So Scottish Friendly said it would consider a claim for total and permanent disability. 
This claim was submitted in July 2022. 
In October 2022, Mrs T complained about the time taken to assess the claim. Scottish 
Friendly responded to the complaint in November 2022, saying it hadnt identified any fault 
on its part. It also clarified that it was awaiting further evidence from Mr Ts GP and an 
independent medical examination. 
In February 2023, after obtaining and reviewing further medical evidence, Scottish Friendly 
declined the claim, saying the policy definition hadnt been met. Mrs T and Mr T appealed 
the decision, but Scottish Friendly maintained its position, issuing a final response on this 
matter towards the end of February 2023.
Mrs T and Mr T brought their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked into things for them, but didnt uphold the complaint. He said Scottish Friendly had 
fairly declined the claim. He acknowledged the claims process had had an impact on Mr T 
and Mrs T, but didnt think Scottish Friendly had caused any avoidable delay or added to the 
distress and inconvenience Mr T and Mrs T were already experiencing. 
Mrs T and Mr T later provided additional medical evidence - an occupational health report 
dated March 2023. Scottish Friendly considered this additional evidence but confirmed it 
didnt change the claim decision. 
As Mrs T and Mr T remained unhappy, their complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
To clarify, my decision deals with the issues and evidence referred to above. Im aware Mrs 
T and Mr T have recently provided another occupational health opinion, dated October 2023. 
But our investigator has confirmed to them that the scope of my decision regarding the claim 
complaint is limited to the evidence on which Scottish Friendly based its claim decision and 
its review of the further evidence provided in March 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the significant efforts Mrs T and Mr T have made to evidence and support their 
complaint. Ive reviewed everything provided. Ive focused particularly on the points and 
evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a specific point or piece of 
evidence, its not because I havent read and thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it 
changes the outcome of the complaint.
Declined claim
Theres no dispute Mr T has health issues which have significantly impacted his life and 
ability to work. Hes been unwell for some time and I was sorry to hear about that. However, 
this alone is not sufficient for the claim to be paid. A successful claim for total and permanent 
disability requires the following policy definitions to be met: 
Total, permanent and irreversible disability as a result of sickness or accident and 
therefore totally incapable of being employed or engaging in any paid occupation at 
all, such condition having persisted for a continuous period of at least six months.
Permanent means that the condition is expected to last throughout life, irrespective 
of when the cover ends or the life assured retires.
Irreversible means that the relevant condition cannot be cured by medical treatment 
and/or surgical procedures used by the National Health Service in the UK at the time 
of the claim.
Ive reviewed the medical records and the report prepared by the independent medical 
examiner, Dr W. I know Mrs T and Mr T have raised concerns about this report. But I can 
see that Dr W is a consultant occupational physician with extensive experience. And I note 
his opinion was based on a review of Mr Ts medical records as well as a 2.5 hour 
meeting/examination with Mr T at home. Mrs T was also present. I also note that Dr W was 
instructed by Scottish Friendly after its Chief Medical Officer advised getting an independent, 
specialist opinion, because the existing medical evidence didnt support the policy definitions 
being met. The report is comprehensive and Im satisfied Dr W is an independent medical 
professional.  
In Dr Ws opinion, Mr Ts main physical problem was profound physical deconditioning as 
well as a history of significant psychological trauma from his acute illness, and significant 
psychological reaction to his subsequent symptoms and inability to recover. Dr W 
considered that Mr Ts continued attribution of his entire problems to the physical effects of 
Covid-19 rather than his subsequent response, was a significant barrier to recovery. Dr W 
commented on treatment options and acknowledged that recovery was likely to take years 
rather than months. He concluded: 
As there is no medical reason why Mr T should remain permanently unable to 
undertake his [job], or any less physically demanding role, it would be inappropriate 
to consider him eligible for a total and permanent disability claim. Doing so would 
reinforce his illness behaviour and have a negative impact on his motivation to 
engage with rehabilitation.
Ive also looked at the occupational health management referral report, dated March 2023, 
provided by Mrs T and Mr T. I understand the report followed a referral from Mr Ts employer. For the purposes of the report, the assessor spoke to Mr T by telephone and 
recorded Mr Ts ongoing symptoms. The assessor concluded: 
In my opinion, Mr T is unfit for work in any capacity, due to his ongoing mental and 
physical symptoms which are now long term.
Regarding prognosis, the assessor comments:
I am unable to predict a timescale for any improvement as this will depend on his 
response to any future treatment. Given Mr Ts progress over the last three years, 
the prospects of a return to his previous role is uncertain.
Scottish Friendly reviewed the report to see if it altered its claim decision, but concluded that 
it didnt. It remained of the view that the definitions for permanent and irreversible disability 
had not been met.
In summary, from what Ive seen, Scottish Friendly obtained Mr Ts GP and hospital records, 
as well as a specialist report from an independent medical examiner. Whilst I acknowledge 
that Mrs T and Mr T disagree with the specialist report, I think Scottish Friendly investigated 
and assessed the claim reasonably. It also reviewed the further evidence they provided, 
which I note also doesnt confirm Mr T will never work again. Im satisfied it acted reasonably 
in this regard. It was entitled to rely on the specialist opinion, which didnt confirm that Mr T 
met the policy terms necessary to qualify for total and permanent disability. So overall, I 
dont think Scottish Friendly treated Mr T unfairly in declining his claim.
Delay
Ive no doubt Mrs T and Mr T have found the experience of making a claim upsetting and 
inconvenient. Mr Ts health and circumstances have changed significantly over the past 
three years and I accept that the impact of these changes has been substantial for both Mr T 
and Mrs T. 
Ive thought about how Scottish Friendly has dealt with Mrs T and Mr T, and whether there 
were avoidable delays that exacerbated an already challenging and difficult time. But 
Scottish Friendly was entitled to explore the claim fully and seek further medical evidence 
before making its decision. Ive not seen evidence of avoidable delays.
So overall, I dont think Scottish Friendly has treated Mrs T and Mr T unfairly in respect of Mr 
Ts claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman