DRN-4060581
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
Moneyboat.co.uk) irresponsibly lent to him. Hes also said that he wasnt treated fairly 
when he explained that he was struggling to pay his loan back.
Background
Moneyboat provided Mr M with a loan for £250 in September 2020. The loan, which had 
interest of £87.05, was due to be repaid in three monthly instalments of £112.35. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Moneyboat had told us. And he thought 
that the checks Moneyboat carried out before giving Mr M his loan were proportionate. 
However, he didnt think that Moneyboat had acted fairly and reasonably once it became 
aware of Mr Ms financial difficulties. So he partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. 
Moneyboat didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Initial decision to lend
Mr M was provided with a high-interest loan, intended for short-term use. So Moneyboat 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide it irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Moneyboat needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M 
could afford to repay his loan before he provided it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mr M took out a single loan for £250. The loan was due to be repaid over three instlaments 
of £112.35 
Moneyboat says it agreed to Mr Ms application after hed provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It says the information Mr M provided on his income and 
expenditure coupled with other checks it carried out showed that hed be able to comfortably 
make the repayments he was committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable 
to lend.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Moneyboat have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Mr Ms first loan with Moneyboat. So I dont think that there was any 
established pattern in Mr Ms borrowing needs at this stage. The information provided does 
suggest that Mr M was asked to provide details of his income and expenditure. Bearing in 
mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Moneyboat asked Mr M and this 
was Mr Ms first loan, I dont think it was unreasonable for Moneyboat to rely on the 
information Mr M was providing.
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Moneyboat obtained. And Im sorry to hear 
that Mr M struggled to repay his loan. But Moneyboat could only make its decision based on 
the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship, I 
dont think proportionate checks wouldve extended into Moneyboat asking Mr M to evidence 
what he was declaring.
Equally, its only really fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint where I can say a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Moneyboat did anything 
wrong in deciding to lend to Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks 
like the information it mightve been provided with was inaccurate. It relied on the information 
it was provided with and given the amount of the repayment involved, Mr Ms declared 
income and Mr M was only provided with one loan, I dont think that this was unreasonable.
Moneyboats response to Mr Ms financial difficulties
I turn now to Mr Ms concerns regarding Moneyboats response to his financial difficulties. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr M got in contact with Moneyboat to explain that he was having 
difficulty repaying his loan. Mr M asked to repay what he owed at an amount of £20 a month. 
Once a lender is told, or it realises, that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties we 
would expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory 
obligations. 
I can see that Moneyboat did attempt to set up repayment arrangements with Mr M. 
However, Mr M subsequently withdrew his permission for funds to be taken from his 
account, after an unexplained additional fee was added to his balance. 
Both Mr M and our adjudicator have asked Moneyboat to explain what the additional charge 
were for. Especially as this was added in circumstances where Moneyboat accepted that   
Mr M was having difficulty repaying his loan.
However, Moneyboat hasnt responded to these requests for clarification. Given Mr M was 
already struggling to repay what he owed and Moneyboat accepted that this was the case, I 
dont think that it was fair and reasonable for Moneyboat to add additional charges over and 
above what was originally due on the loan, to Mr Ms account at this stage. Therefore, as Moneyboat hasnt explained what these charges are for and Im satisfied that 
all parties have accepted Mr M was experiencing financial difficulties, I dont think that it was 
fair and reasonable for these charges to be added to Mr Ms balance. 
It therefore follows that Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint and that Moneyboat needs 
to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Moneyboat needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Moneyboat should put things right for Mr M by:
removing any and all additional interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Ms balance 
over and above the amount due at the outset. The payments Mr M made should be 
deducted from the new balance  the £337.05 originally due under the agreement. If 
Mr M has already repaid more than £337.05 then Moneyboat should treat any extra 
as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr M;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Moneyboat recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
if an outstanding balance does remain once all adjustments have been made, 
Moneyboat should write this off. It should also reflect that the loan was settled 
(whether with a portion written off or repaid in full) in April 2021, depending on 
whether a balance would have remained at this time.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. Evergreen Finance 
London Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman