DRN-2239542
The complaint
Mrs W, who is the executor of her late husband Mr Ws estate, complains that Santander UK 
Plc didnt tell her that interest would continue to accrue on his mortgage after she notified 
Santander of his death.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws family home was subject to an interest only mortgage with Santander. The 
mortgage was in his sole name.
Sadly Mr W passed away in December 2018. Mrs W rang Santander and was passed 
through to its specialist bereavement team, who took some details and explained what 
documents she would need to provide. 
As Santander hadnt received the grant of probate, it wrote to Mrs W in March 2019. Probate 
was issued in August 2019 and sent to Santander in 2019.
In the meantime Mrs W was conscious that the term of the mortgage was coming to an end. 
She took independent financial advice and decided to apply for a lifetime mortgage over the 
property to repay the Santander mortgage.
Following a valuation, Mrs W was advised she could borrow around £113,000. Believing the 
balance to be around £114,000 Mrs W decided to go ahead as she could make up the 
difference herself.
She then discovered that, in fact, the balance was £120,000. Since Mr Ws death she had no 
made any payments, but interest had continued to be charged and added to the loan 
balance. There was almost £7,000 of arrears.
Mrs W complained. She said that when she had spoken to the bereavement team she had 
been told she had no obligation to make monthly payments  it was her husbands mortgage 
and he had passed away. She didnt know that interest would continue to be charged and, if 
no payments were made, added to the balance. If shed known that she would have made 
the payments. She started making payments, but said she couldnt afford to make up the 
payments that had been missed and was concerned her equity release loan couldnt now go 
ahead because there was no longer enough to clear the mortgage.
Santander said that the bereavement team should have explained that interest would 
continue to accrue if no payments were made. That was part of the standard script but 
unfortunately hadnt happened in this case. But it said she hadnt been told the account had 
been frozen, and the March letter had said that interest was continuing to be added. It said 
the full balance was now due.
Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld. She said Santander should write off 
the interest accrued when payments werent made. As Santander didnt agree, the case 
comes to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Mr Ws passing away and I hope Mrs W will accept my 
condolences on her loss.
Mrs W phoned Santander and spoke to the bereavement team a few days after Mr Ws 
death. Ive listened to that call. The call handler was helpful and sympathetic.
But she did tell Mrs W that there was no obligation to make payments to the mortgage while 
things were resolved. And she didnt tell Mrs W that if payments werent made, interest 
would continue to accrue and be added to the balance.
Santander has confirmed that this should have been said as part of the standard script in 
such cases  and rightly so, in my view. 
Mrs W was an elderly lady, in her eighties, and recently bereaved. The mortgage, and 
finances generally, were dealt with by her late husband. At a time of grief, she was also 
trying to make practical arrangements  not least, to make sure she could stay in the home 
they had shared together.
In a situation like this, in my view the onus is very much on Santander to make absolutely 
clear what happens next, and what Mrs Ws options are. 
And, in my view, it failed to do that. It told Mrs W that she didnt have to make payments to 
Mr Ws mortgage now he had passed away. I can understand, having listened to the call, 
why Mrs W wouldnt have understood that if she didnt the monthly interest would be added 
to the balance instead. And why she therefore believed that, in effect, the account had been 
frozen. Santander didnt use that word  but that was the impression the failure to explain to 
Mrs W how the mortgage would now operate left her with.
Im therefore satisfied that Mrs W was led to believe that there was no need to make 
payments, and no consequences if she didnt. Thats why she didnt  and Im satisfied that if 
shed known the true position she would have made payments, as she did later when she 
found out. As a result, therefore, the mortgage was underfunded, and Santander should put 
that right in line with our established approach to underfunding.
Santander says that, in any case, its letter in March 2019 made the position clear. I think its 
likely Mrs W did receive the letter, since she called Santander a few months later. And the 
letter does say that if payments arent made the account will fall into arrears and interest will 
continue to accrue.
So I can see Santanders argument that this was enough to tell Mrs W that if she didnt make 
payments the balance would go up. But Im satisfied that Mrs W didnt in fact realise this, 
and didnt start making the payments at this point. I think if she had known, she would have 
paid. And in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair to say that 
the underfunding should stop here on the basis of a failure to mitigate. Taking into account 
Mrs Ws personal circumstances and the clear belief shed taken from the earlier call  as 
well as the fact that her focus in dealing with this letter was on its request for the grant of 
probate  I dont think I can fairly say that she ought reasonably to have understood that she 
needed to start making the payments.
Putting things right
In my view, the fair way to resolve this complaint is for Santander to put the mortgage back into the position it would be in had Mrs W continued making the monthly payments from the 
point Mr W passed away. This will involve removing the interest added when Mrs W didnt 
make payments.
In addition, I note that  both because Mr Ws death brings the mortgage to an end and 
because of the end of the interest only term  Santander now expects full repayment of the 
capital balance. Thats fair and reasonable. But it should give Mrs W a reasonable time to 
make other arrangements. 
The regulator has recently issued guidance to lenders which says that, for any interest only 
mortgage maturing after March 2020, payment of the capital balance can be deferred until 
October 2021. Although the end of the term of this mortgage falls into that window, strictly 
speaking the mortgage came to an end when Mr W passed away. But in the particular 
circumstances of this case, I think it would be fair to show equivalent forbearance to Mrs W. 
This will give her time to revisit the lifetime mortgage now this complaint is resolved and she 
knows she doesnt have to pay the additional interest that built up while no payments were 
being made. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Re-calculate Mr Ws mortgage so that it is as if Mrs W had made all payment due 
since he passed away; and
Allow Mrs W a reasonable period to make alternative arrangements to repay the 
capital balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W, on behalf 
of the estate of Mr W, to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman