DRN-3521000
The complaint
Mr A complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his claim
and failure to carry out repairs to all the damage caused to his car, under his motor
insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr A was involved in a car accident. He claimed to AA and it arranged for his
car to be repaired at an approved garage. When Mr A collected his car, he says the central
locking was making a strange noise and wasnt working correctly, there were scratches on
the tinted glass film on drivers side window and wind noise from the passenger side door.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with the quality of the repairs and made a complaint. AA responded in
November 2021. It says it engineers didnt think the issues highlighted were related to
damage caused by the accident. But it agreed to appoint an independent engineer to inspect
the issues raised. An inspection took place a few days later and a report was shared with Mr
A.
The engineers report concluded the cause of the tinted glass film should be investigated
and the film replaced. It says the passenger side door glass wasnt seated correctly, but that
this wasnt related to the accident. In relation to central locking it says no noise was heard
during the inspection. It says the garage advised it was the window mechanism making the
noise, not the locking system  and this was a wear and tear issue.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. AA sent a
further response to Mr As complaint offering £150 for not promptly arranging an
independent inspection when issues were raised in September 2021. Mr A didnt think this
was sufficient. Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He didnt think the independent
engineer had considered the central locking issue adequately during his inspection but
rather had relied on the information provided by the garage.
Our investigator thought AA should provide a further £100 compensation to Mr A for the
delay in repairing the damaged tinted window. He also thought it was fair that AA arrange for
a specialist to inspect the central locking system and clarify if it was damaged as a result of
the accident.
AA disagreed. It says the view of the garage engineers and the independent engineer was
that it was unlikely the issues Mr A reported were related to the accident. Our investigator
didnt change his view. AA says it didnt think it fair that it should have to arrange a further
inspection. Because of this it asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr As 
complaint in part. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My remit here is to consider whether AA handled Mr As claim and the associated repairs
fairly.
I have read the report from the inspection that was arranged in November 2021. The report
says:
We understand that the vehicle was involved in a road traffic incident on [date of accident]
as a result of which it suffered damage to the RH side. The incident repairs were carried out
by [appointed garage] and the owner is not satisfied with some of the areas of the work
completed.
We are advised that the areas of concern with the repair are;
1. RH door glass tint film scratched.
2. Wind noise from the lh door.
3. LH door central locking noisy.
And:
Following our examination we would comment as follows:
1. Complaint upheld
2. The lh door glass is not seating into the aperture rubber correctly.
3. No noise was heard during our inspection
We consider the following rectification work is required:
1. Investigate why the tint film is scratched, rectify and replace tint film
2. This is not related to the index incident or subsequent repair work
3. The repairer has advised that it is the window mechanism that makes the noise, not
the central locking system. They also advised that this is a wear and tear issue.
We have not issued any instructions but we have spoken to the original repairer and advised
that the rh door window issue needs to be addressed. They have agreed to make
arrangements for this work once they have seen our report.
In its response to our investigators view, AA says its independent engineers professional
opinion was that there was no central locking issue related to the accident or the repair. It
says this supports the view of its garage engineers. It also says this is supported by the
circumstances of the accident and the damage that was recorded. I have looked at the
photos taken of Mr As car after the accident, which shows damage is to the drivers side of
the car.
Im not an expert in this field and must rely on the expert opinion provided. Its clear the
garage engineers didnt think the locking system was damaged in the accident. They refer to
the noise reported by Mr A originating from the passenger side window. The independent
engineer says he couldnt hear a noise relating to the central locking when he inspected.
In his report the independent engineer refers to the garage engineers view that the noise
originates with the window and is a wear and tear issue.
I have thought about whether this means the inspecting engineer, didnt carry out a full and
independent investigation. But I dont think it does. Its clear the engineer inspected thecentral locking being operated, as he says there was no noise to report. I think its
reasonable to expect that had something else been noticed - such as the central locking not
working, which is arguably more significant  this would have been identified and mentioned
in the report. But no issue was reported with the central locking during the inspection.
Based on this information I think AA behaved reasonably in arranging an independent
inspection. If Mr A wants to arrange a specialist inspection of his own, AA should consider
the findings. But I dont think its reasonably been shown that its responsible for repairs to
the central locking or for the issue identified with the passenger side window.
That said I dont think AA acted reasonably to arrange the repair to the scratched window in
a timely manner once this had been identified by its engineer. Mr A has supplied a timeline
of the contacts he made to chase this up with AA and the garage. My understanding is that
the repair has yet to be completed. AA has agreed to carry out the repairs and it should
arrange to do so.
I think it was appropriate for the business to pay compensation for the delay in arranging an
inspection. But given the time taken to arrange the required repair, and for the frustration
and inconvenience Mr A has been caused, I think a further payment is fair. I agree with our
investigators view that AA should pay a total of £250 in compensation for these delays.
In summary, I think AA treated Mr A fairly in arranging an independent inspection and
agreeing to repair the tinted window. But I dont think it treated him fairly and caused
frustration and inconvenience in the delays discussed here. So, it should pay a total of £250 
in compensation. 
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part. AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited should:
pay Mr A a total of £250 compensation for the inconvenience and frustration caused
by the delays in arranging an independent inspection and in arranging repairs for the
tinted window.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AA responded to say is accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr A responded to say that he partly agreed with the provisional decision. However, he says 
some of the conversations he had with AA arent recorded in the provisional decision and 
these conversations, if they were recorded, would have shown that he was misled by AA 
throughout this whole process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr As comments that not all conversations were recorded. Although I 
acknowledge what he has said, I havent been provided with any new information. I must 
base my findings on a fair and reasonable consideration of the evidence provided. I dont 
think I need to change my decision based on Mr As further comments. 
I have read through all the available information again to make sure there is nothing in the 
records that changes my view. But Im satisfied that £200 compensation is a fair outcome for the inconvenience and frustration caused by AAs delays. So, my final decision is the same 
as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr As complaint in 
part. AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should:
pay Mr A a total of £250 compensation for the inconvenience and frustration caused
by the delays in arranging an independent inspection and in arranging repairs for the
tinted window.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman