DRN-3402216
The complaint
Miss E complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) failed to carry out sufficient due 
diligence activities when she asked to transfer some pension savings to a Small 
Self-Administered Pension Scheme (SSAS) in September 2014.
What happened
Miss E has been assisted in making her complaint by a firm of solicitors. But, in this decision, 
I will largely refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Miss E herself.
Miss E held pension savings with ReAssure. She says that she was cold called by a firm 
offering her a free pension review. She agreed to that review and provided her authority for 
ReAssure to release information to the firm. Following that review Miss E says that she was 
told her pension savings with ReAssure were not performing well. She says she was told 
she could achieve better returns by transferring her pension savings to a new scheme, and 
investing her monies in one or more of the investment opportunities the firm suggested.
Miss E found that advice attractive and agreed to proceed. She completed the paperwork 
the firm provided that created a new company that would employ Miss E, and set up a SSAS 
to provide her with pension benefits after it received the transfer from ReAssure. ReAssure 
received a request for the transfer of Miss Es pension savings on 1 September 2014. It 
completed the request later that month.
Miss E says that during the entire transfer process there was no effective communication 
from ReAssure to her. In particular she says that ReAssure should have warned her that her 
transfer request might be as a result of a scam, and warned her about the risks she was 
facing. Miss E says that those warnings would have resulted in her cancelling the transfer 
activity.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but for completeness, and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory 
rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the 
submissions that have been made by Miss E (and her representative) and by 
ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
The Pension Regulators (TPR) scorpion guidance
The scorpion guidance was issued on 14 February 2013 and updated the following 
year, in July 2014. Several bodies including the FSA (the Financial Services Authority 
which was succeeded by the Financial Conduct Authority, the FCA, shortly 
afterwards) were part of this initiative so its a relevant consideration for personal 
pension providers like ReAssure which come under FSA/FCA regulation, rather than 
TPR regulation.
Briefly, the scorpion campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning 
signs present in a number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, 
money being transferred overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information 
about investments and pressure to complete a transfer quickly. It suggested 
transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving 
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in 
multiple transfer requests. The 2014 update replaced many of the 2013 warnings 
about pension liberation, with similar warnings about scams.
If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist schemes 
could use which suggested asking the member for copies of promotional materials, 
emails or letters about the scheme and for further details about how they became 
aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been described to them. If those 
enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on to suggest checking 
whether the adviser had been registered with the FCA. Where transferring schemes 
had concerns, they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer and to seek 
legal advice.
The scorpion campaign also included:
An insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was requested. The 
insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, cold 
calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax 
consequences of accessing pensions early.
A longer leaflet which gives more information, including real life examples, 
about pension liberation. This was to be used in order to help raise 
awareness about pension liberation amongst pension scheme members.
 
In addition to endorsing this guidance, ReAssures regulator, the FCA, had since its 
inception set out Principles and Rules for ReAssure to follow  including COBS 
2.1.1R (the clients best interests rule) which Miss Es representative has highlighted. 
So I think it was also appropriate for ReAssure to have regard for this TPR guidance 
in meeting its existing regulatory obligations. In light of this Ill consider what (if any) 
warning signs ReAssure ought reasonably to have noticed in Miss Es request to 
transfer to the SSAS.
Status of the receiving scheme
Every SSAS is specific to its members, and consideration will often be given to 
transfers from a members existing pensions when a scheme is first set up. So it may 
not necessarily have been surprising that a transfer request was being received to a 
scheme Miss E had recently established as trustee, for what appears to be a new 
employer she had incorporated as a director.
At the time, the actions being taken by TPR against suspected pension liberation 
schemes tended to involve larger multi-member schemes operated by unscrupulous 
trustees which were hurriedly set up and admitted members from all over the UK, 
with no connection to each other, over a short space of time. That wasnt strictly the 
form of arrangement Miss E was entering into, which might have appeared a lot more 
like a decision she entered into to form a pension scheme for her own company. It wasnt until a further March 2015 update to the action pack that TPR specifically 
highlighted that the focus of liberation or scam activity had now moved to 
single-member schemes.
And the SSAS administrator itself appears to have been in existence for a number of 
years at the time of the transfer. So I dont consider it should have been regarded as 
a recently established operator in the market. And ReAssure has pointed out that the 
administrator was a member of the Origo scheme. It says that scheme also 
undertook due diligence activities on its members before they were allowed to use 
the scheme.
The transfer request provided ReAssure with little information about the ultimate 
investments Miss E intended. If ReAssure had suspected the investments Miss E 
was making might be a scam there were several options open to it under TPRs 
guidance. Its important to say here that this applies whether or not that suspicion 
was correct, so Im making no judgement here about the status of Miss Es 
investments. Part of the problem is that investment scams are often outwardly 
indistinguishable from what might simply be a risky investment proposal that could 
lose all the investors money.
The options ReAssure had were to investigate whether there were grounds to delay 
or refuse to transfer to the SSAS altogether; or and particularly if not, to engage 
further with Miss E by providing risk warnings and check she understood the 
implications of what she was doing.
Did ReAssure have a basis on which to delay or refuse the transfer?
ReAssure has explained that the rules of its personal pension meant a customer had 
a right to transfer their pension plan to any scheme capable (and willing) to accept a 
recognised transfer under Section 169 of the Finance Act 2004. The HMRC 
registration of the scheme meant it fulfilled those criteria. Although ReAssure didnt 
make any further enquiries of HMRC here, it says that Origo would have completed 
those checks.
A statutory right to transfer to a SSAS would also exist given that the sponsoring 
employer of the SSAS was Miss Es own company of which she was acting as a 
director. To ensure that it would have been necessary for ReAssure to inspect the 
SSAS trust deed and rules. It doesnt appear this was something that ReAssure did. 
But from my understanding it appears that check would have shown that Miss E was 
entitled to secure transfer credits as a member of that SSAS using her ReAssure 
personal pension, given she was clearly holding office as a director of that employer 
at the time.
I have considered whether the new employer Miss E had set up was genuine and 
therefore whether the transfer was a valid exercise of her statutory rights. But its 
likely in my view that any attempt by ReAssure to question this with Miss E would 
have been met by the sort of complaint letter from her about it delaying the transfer, 
that the wider evidence suggests customers were being asked to sign in advance. 
Im also aware that when another provider attempted to delay a transfer, another 
similar SSAS administrator provided a copy of the confirmation it had received at the 
conclusion of an enquiry by HMRC into its operations  and argued that the transfer 
should proceed.
It appears that the scheme was validly registered with HMRC, and there would have 
been nothing to suggest that it was being used for pension liberation. The case law subsequently established in Hughes v Royal London [2016] EWHC 319 (Ch) 
indicates that as Miss E already had earnings from her main occupation, a lack of 
further earnings from the sponsoring employer, which she was a director of in this 
case, wouldnt have invalidated her statutory right to transfer.
Im not saying that ReAssure should have anticipated the outcome of a court case 
that hadnt yet happened  if it had suspicions at the time, it should have 
communicated what those suspicions were, as Ill explain later below. But I think its 
important to recognise what its now been established the law actually meant for this 
sort of transfer.
Having considered all of this I think ReAssures prospects were limited, for delaying 
or blocking Miss Es transfer out of a suspicion that the sponsoring employer wasnt 
genuine - and could ultimately have been unsuccessful. But more importantly than 
this, I dont consider I could reasonably expect ReAssure to go to these lengths in the 
particular circumstances of this case given the apparent outcome of similar enquiries 
with HMRC in the past.
In the case of an actual investment scam, it might be expected that engaging further 
with the member about the potential risks they were taking might lead to the member 
reconsidering whether they wanted to transfer in any event  and therefore was a 
more constructive way for ReAssure to proceed in the particular circumstances of 
this case. So Ive next considered the possibility that Miss E might have changed her 
mind about transferring if ReAssure had got directly in touch with her to explain its 
concerns.
Risk warnings
At a time when the TPR guidance was less prescriptive than it, and other industry 
codes, now are on the degree of contact a transferring scheme should have with the 
customer, a key method of passing on these risk warnings was to issue the scorpion 
leaflet. Since February 2013 TPR had been saying on its website that it would like to 
see the use of this insert in transfer packs for members becoming best practice.
ReAssure seems to have taken the view that this wasnt a necessary step given that 
the transfer was being completed via the Origo system. However I dont think that 
was sufficient  it was ReAssure that needed to satisfy itself that there were no 
warning signs prevalent on this transfer and that Miss E had been sufficiently 
informed about the risks. I dont think it was sufficient here for ReAssure to rely on 
the checks that had been made by a third party.
 
So in my view ReAssure should have sent the scorpion leaflet to Miss E, to ensure at 
the very least that it could demonstrate it followed the TPR guidance. I understand 
that Miss E had been provided with a copy of the leaflet (or something similar) by the 
SSAS administrator. So it is entirely possible that she may not have read it when 
ReAssure provided it a second time. There isnt a requirement in the guidance to 
check she had read and understood the leaflet, but in my view Miss Es having 
received the leaflet from the administrator, and drawing some comfort from that, 
provides better evidence that she was already mindful of these issues, than if there 
had been no information provided here at all. I dont consider its fair or reasonable 
for me to give no weight at all to what Miss E has said about the leaflet she received 
from the administrator of the SSAS.
The Action Pack suggested the following steps for ReAssure to take if it had any 
concerns about the transfer:Contact the member to establish whether they understand the type of 
scheme theyll be transferring to and send them the pension scams booklet 
available at www.pension-scams.com
Speak to the member at risk  over the phone, via email or letter. It could help 
you establish answers to more of the questions in the checklist, where youve 
been unable to answer them with the information you have available
Direct the member to Action Fraud if you think it is a scam, or The Pensions 
Advisory Service (TPAS) to discuss the potential consequences of the 
transfer, including tax repercussions, if any part of the arrangement is 
deemed as unauthorised
If the member insists on proceeding with their transfer request, and your 
concerns remain, then you should alert Action Fraud yourself. There could 
still be time to protect this member, or others who follow in their footsteps.
ReAssures own comments suggest that it failed to make any direct contact with 
Miss E when it received her transfer request. But I dont think I need to consider here 
whether or not that was a reasonable approach. Even if I thought there were some 
warning signs present that might have put ReAssure on notice it needed to do more 
in line with the recommendations in the Action Pack, as I will now go on to explain, 
Im not persuaded that any further contact from ReAssure would have made a 
difference to Miss Es decision to transfer.
If ReAssure had gone further, would it have made a difference?
The Action Pack does suggest getting in touch with the member but that is the only 
expectation  it doesnt specify how that contact should be made, and certainly not 
that the contact must be by telephone. This is left to the discretion of the provider and 
I know some providers have tried engaging over the phone. However it is not without 
its difficulties, including the risk of it being wrongly perceived as a self-interested 
attempt to retain Miss Es business. Given that the staff involved in processing 
payments out of the transferring scheme are neither qualified nor authorised to 
provide financial advice, in reality such a conversation would also need to be heavily 
scripted  and might not end up being a lot more effective than a letter. So I couldnt 
fairly fault ReAssure had it decided that it was best to engage with Miss E by letter.
The main risk in Miss Es transfer was not one of liberation, but the potential for the 
subsequent investment to be either a scam or wholly unsuitable for her. However 
even if ReAssure had been alerted to the possibility of a scam (when it discovered 
the nature of the proposed investments), that doesnt mean it was straightforward for 
ReAssure to tell Miss E directly that it thought they were unsuitable (or even likely to 
be unsuitable) for her. It would have been forming such a view based on insufficient 
information about Miss Es personal circumstances  and of course it was not 
qualified to formally provide such advice. If it had attempted to directly caution Miss E 
against making the investments it wasnt in a position to advise what she should 
invest in, which is a natural question to follow.
Miss E had already taken some significant steps here, not least the setting up of a 
limited company and the taking on of director duties for that company. There had 
been a lot of activity leading up to the transfer request with numerous points where 
someone less committed to changing their pension arrangements could easily have 
pulled out. Obviously, Miss E didnt do so which, to my mind, shows she had more 
than just a passing interest in the proposals.So in that context, I dont think a statement from her old pension provider about 
regulated financial advice being a good idea would have prompted Miss E to take 
independent advice or to pull out of the transfer. I think she would only have done so 
if she had doubts about her investment and was prepared to unwind the steps she 
had already taken. Taking everything into consideration, including listening to a call 
between Miss E and our investigator, I dont think this was likely.
Im not satisfied that flagging up any of the other messages in the scorpion guidance 
 for example the availability of TPAS to discuss any concerns  would have 
fundamentally altered Miss Es decision to proceed in this case. Im drawn to the 
regrettable conclusion that Miss E was already satisfied enough with the advice she 
was getting  whether that was from the SSAS administrator or another regulated 
firm that appeared to have been involved in the discussions  to have been willing to 
make the declarations she made at the time. I cannot reasonably say she would have 
been deterred from going ahead in spite of any steps ReAssure might have taken to 
alert her in line with what Ive set out above.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. ReAssure hasnt provided us with anything further. Miss Es 
representative has provided us with its comments on her behalf. Although I am only 
summarising that response I want to confirm to Miss E, and her representative, that I have 
carefully read, and considered, the entire response.
The representative says that Miss Es transfer was large, and the size of the amount being 
transferred should have put ReAssure on notice that she might be the target of a scam. It 
says that ReAssure should have noticed that no parties in the transaction were regulated  it 
isnt enough that they were long standing or registered with HMRC. ReAssure should have 
warned Miss E that she was transferring her money from a regulated, to an unregulated, 
environment.
The representative says that ReAssure should have been aware of the inherent risk in a 
SSAS arrangement, and the expertise that is needed to run the scheme. It says ReAssure 
should have raised with Miss E whether she had that expertise. But the representative 
accepts that Miss E did have the right to make the transfer and it is unlikely that ReAssure 
could have blocked it entirely.
The representative highlights that ReAssure failed to do what it was required to, both in 
terms of sending the scorpion leaflet, and raising any concerns with Miss E directly. It says 
that had Miss E received the scorpion leaflet from ReAssure she would have viewed it 
entirely differently from when she received it from the SSAS administrator.
The representative says that it is not true that setting up a limited company and associated 
SSAS was a significant step. It says that the work would have all been done by the advising 
firm, and Miss E would have simply needed to sign the provided documents. So those steps 
do not show any degree of commitment by Miss E that wouldnt have been over-ridden by 
any warning from ReAssure.
In summary Miss E has said that she had no experience of dealing with pensions and so 
was reliant on ReAssure to warn her if anything was amiss. She says that if she had been 
warned she should take regulated advice, she would have taken that warning seriously. She 
says that the firm providing the scorpion leaflet to her seemed to be a sign of legitimacy  
why would a scammer warn her of a scam? These pension savings were her only provision 
for her retirement  their loss has far reaching consequences.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Miss E and her representative have said, Im sorry 
to tell her that I havent changed my mind on the outcome of the complaint. But I would like 
to comment further on some of the points that have been raised.
There is no doubt that ReAssure failed to provide the information it needed to when Miss E 
asked for the transfer  it didnt send her the scorpion leaflet. But as I have said earlier, that 
leaflet was provided to Miss E by the administrator of the new scheme. I accept that might 
have been an attempt, as Miss E says, to persuade her that everything was above board. 
But I dont think that ReAssure also providing the leaflet would have negated the confidence 
Miss E says she derived from receiving the leaflet from the administrator. So Im still not 
persuaded that it is more likely that ReAssure sending the leaflet would have caused Miss E 
to cancel her transfer request.
In many cases the transfer of pension benefits to a SSAS is not a scam, or liberation 
attempt. There are good and genuine reasons why that sort of transfer might be made. And 
in itself, I dont think the transfer to the SSAS by Miss E was a scam. The SSAS might not 
have been the most suitable product for Miss E and the investment itself may well have been 
flawed, but ReAssures responsibilities did not extend to assessing the suitability of the 
transfer for Miss E. It was not advising her.
By the time ReAssure received the transfer request, Miss E would have been some way into 
the process  the actual transfer of her pension savings would have been one of the final 
stages. I am not persuaded that, at such a late stage, she would have been concerned that 
the choice she was making was not in her best interests. I appreciate that, with the benefit of 
hindsight, Miss E now feels that any warnings or even delays by ReAssure to the transfer 
might have led her to reconsider. But I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that was 
likely to be the case at the time. Miss E appeared to be content with the choices she had 
made, and I dont think that ReAssure was in any position to dissuade her.
So having taken into account all the evidence, including what Miss E has told us, I dont 
believe it has been demonstrated as more likely that Miss E would not have transferred had 
ReAssure contacted her (assuming that it should have done so). Miss E may well have lost 
out as a result of the transfer because of the actions of third parties and that is very 
unfortunate. But in these specific circumstances I dont believe ReAssure has caused, or is 
responsible for, that loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman