DRN-3636438
The complaint
Ms C complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly rejected 
a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Cs pet suffered a ruptured ligament to a hind leg a few years ago. She made a claim on 
her pet insurance policy and the claim was settled without problem. More recently her pet 
suffered a similar injury to the other hind leg. But this time the claim was declined by 
Casualty due to her pets weight. Ms C said the pet weighed the same as it had at the time 
of the earlier claim. And her vet told her that the condition wasnt caused by the pets weight. 
So she wants Casualty to accept her claim and apologise for its mistake.
Casualty said itd declined Ms Cs claim under the terms and conditions of the pet insurance 
policy. The vet had noted the pet as overweight and had advised weight loss. Casualty 
accepted that the pets weight may not have been the only cause of the condition. But it 
wouldve been a contributing factor. And the policy stated any treatment needed as a result 
of the pet being overweight would be excluded from cover.
Ms C wasnt satisfied with Casualtys response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator considered the exclusion Casualty had 
relied on as well as the vets opinion. And she didnt feel Casualty had treated Ms C fairly.
Although the clinical notes indicated the pet was overweight she didnt think Casualty had 
provided persuasive evidence to show the condition had been caused by the pets weight. 
The vet had made it clear he didnt think the pets weight had caused the rupture in either 
leg. And the vet had stressed that a cruciate rupture wasnt caused by or associated with a 
pets weight. 
As a result our investigator felt Casualty had acted unfairly in relying on the exclusion to 
decline the claim. And she said Casualty should review the claim in line with the remaining 
terms of the policy. If Casualty then found the claim should be paid it should make payment 
in line with the policy terms less any applicable excess. And if Ms C had already settled the 
vets invoice Casualty should add 8% interest to its settlement. 
Casualty didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Casualty said the pets clinical history showed the pet was obese. And there was information 
to show the increasing trend in canine obesity was being mirrored with a steadily increasing 
problem in cruciate ligament disease.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulty Ms Cs pet has experienced. It mustve been upsetting 
for her insurer to decline a claim on the pet insurance policy following veterinary treatment. 
So Ive looked at everything thats happened to see if Casualty has treated Ms C fairly and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Casualty said the clinical notes showed the vet had recorded the pet as overweight and 
recommended weight loss. Under what is not insured in the pet insurance policy there is an 
exclusion for any claims resulting from your pet being medically overweight or underweight 
and this results in your pet needing treatment as a result of not being the recommended 
medical weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by a vet.
Ive looked at the additional information provided by Casualty with regards to cruciate injuries 
and overweight pets. And Ive considered the initial opinion of Ms Cs vet and their response 
to the information provided by Casualty in support of its decision. 
The clinical notes confirm the vets opinion that the pet was overweight for its age, breed 
type and sex. But having looked at the wording of the exclusion relied on by Casualty I cant 
say Ive seen sufficient evidence that the claim resulted from the pet being overweight and 
that the pet needed treatment as a result of its weight.
It is common practise for vets to recommend weight loss for overweight pets. But the vet has 
clearly stated in his expert opinion that the pets weight was not the cause of the ligament 
ruptures on either occasion. Although the pets weight has fluctuated over the years there is 
little difference in its weight at the time of the treatments for both hind legs. And I understand 
the claim for the first treatment a few years earlier was accepted by the insurer.
Casualty accepts that the pets weight may not have been the only cause but believes it 
would certainly have been a contributing factor. It says the extra weight would increase the 
force on the pets joints and increase tension on the ligaments.
Although there may be evidence to show being overweight may increase the rate of 
progression in degenerative joint disease Im not persuaded that Casualty has done enough 
to contradict the opinion of the vet treating Ms Cs pet. In the vets opinion the pets weight 
was not the cause of the condition treated. 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by both parties and the wording of the 
policy exclusion I dont believe the clinical notes suggest the claim resulted from the pet 
being overweight and that the treatment was required as a result of its overweight condition. 
On that basis I dont think Casualty has applied the exclusion fairly.
Putting things right
To put things right Casualty should reconsider Ms Cs claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the pet insurance policy. If Casualty then finds that the claim should be 
paid, it should settle the claim minus any application excess.
If Ms C has already settled the vets invoice for the treatment Casualty should add 8% 
simple interest from the date of Ms Cs payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should follow the steps outlined in the section 
putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman