DRN-3439501
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 2015. 
Mr H paid a monthly fee for this account, which came with a number of benefits. Mr H says 
that the benefits of the account were not useful to him and Halifax shouldve contacted him 
after the account was opened to ensure that he was eligible for the benefits that it came with.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs complaint. They did not think that the URCA was mis-
sold.
Mr H did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Hs complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr H, but after giving this case a lot of thought, I 
dont think the account was mis-sold to him. I know this isnt the outcome that he was hoping 
for. But I hope that my explanation will help him to understand how I have come to this 
conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Mr H was aware the URCA account was optional and 
whether he was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than not 
that he was. I say this because he had previously had a fee-free bank account with Halifax 
for a number of years. So, I think that Mr H wouldve been aware that free accounts existed 
and were an option for them. 
This account was not recommended to Mr H. This means that Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the benefits were suitable for Mr H. But it did need to provide Mr H with enough 
information to decide this for himself. 
During the online upgrade process, I think that the major features and benefits of the 
account wouldve been highlighted, to make the account seem attractive to encourage 
people to opt for the fee paid account. I accept that Mr H may not have been told everything 
about all of the benefits that the account came with. But I cant see anything specific that he 
was not told that I think wouldve altered his decision to take out the account. 
Ultimately, Halifax needed to make Mr H aware of the benefits of the account and the 
options that he had. And I am satisfied, albeit on balance as I cant see the online application 
screens, that Halifax did enough to do this and it was down to Mr H to decide for himself as 
to whether he wanted the account and whether the package would be a good fit for his 
circumstances. 
Mr H has said that he assumed that Halifax would call him after the upgrade process in order 
to ensure the account was right for him. He said he expected this due to his disability. But 
Halifax was under no obligation to do this. I also cant see that prior to the upgrade Mr H 
ever requested that Halifax contact him in the event of an account change. Moreover, Ive 
seen nothing that wouldve prevented Mr H from contacting Halifax if he had any questions 
or wanted more information about the benefits that the account came with. I say this 
especially as he was in contact with Halifax about other matters around the time the account 
was upgraded.
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA account was mis-sold to 
Mr H. I therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Mr H the account 
fees that he has been charged whilst he held the URCA account. 
I understand that this may be frustrating to Mr H, as he strongly feels that his account was 
mis-sold. I also understand that with the benefit of hindsight, the URCA account may not 
have represented good value for money. But I cant uphold his complaint due to this. I can 
only uphold the complaint about the sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly. And for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think it was.
I should explain that this decision represents the final stage in our process and there is no 
further recourse to appeal the outcome of this complaint. That said Mr H may be able to 
pursue his complaint elsewhere such as in court if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman