DRN-2910092
The complaint
Mr D has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) undervalued his van following a theft 
and subsequent total loss claim. Mr D is also unhappy that UKI misled him about paying for 
his sat nav and audio equipment and he says that not having a van has adversely affected 
his livelihood.
What happened
Following the theft of his van Mr D submitted a claim on his commercial motor policy. After a 
review, UKI offered Mr D £8,606 to settle his claim as it said this represented the market 
value of his van.
But Mr D doesnt think this offer is fair and wants UKI to pay what he thinks the van is worth. 
Mr D says to get a like for like replacement it would cost him a lot more. Hes submitted 
some advertisements hes found online for similar vans valued at between £9,900 and 
£16,995. He says its very difficult in the current market to get a similar van, and impossible 
to get one for the amount UKI is offering.
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator was satisfied the 
valuation placed on the van by UKI was fair. The investigator was also satisfied with the 
compensation paid by UKI for the distress and inconvenience caused throughout the claim 
and didnt uphold the complaint. 
But Mr D doesnt agree, and hes asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D is unhappy with the valuation UKI has placed on his van. He says his van was in 
pristine condition and had very low mileage when it was stolen. He says it was a three-
seater with ply lining throughout. He says the valuation provided by UKI is not representative 
of the actual selling price of vans from his date of loss. Hes provided a few valuations from 
different sellers online to support his argument. Mr D also says that hes having great 
difficulty finding a van to match the exact spec and condition of his van, and that £8,806 
doesnt come near to what hed expect to pay for something similar.
Our approach is to consider whether UKI has settled Mr Ds claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, Ive considered the terms of the policy and 
the offer made in order to determine whether UKI have acted fairly. I can see that in the 
event the van cant be repaired, UKI wont pay more than the market value of the van at the 
time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as the cost of replacing your vehicle with another of the same make 
and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Our usual approach to complaints about car or van valuations is to look at motor trade 
guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised 
and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. 
This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the 
mileage. If any guides price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its 
reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. We wouldnt normally place as much weight on 
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value. Adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or 
rare model. Or if they strongly indicate that the guides could be wrong. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Ds van at the time of the incident 
and they produced the following valuations: 
CAP £6,725; Glasss £6,900 and Cazana £8,256. However, as this is a van, valuations are 
exclusive of VAT. Ive been advised Mr D is not VAT registered, so VAT needs to be added 
to these valuations. Once VAT is included, the actual valuations are as follows: CAP £8,070, 
Glasss £8,280 and Cazana £9,907.
UKI has offered a value of £8,806. To decide if this is fair, we can approach this two ways. If 
two valuations are similar and the third is an outlier, we might think its reasonable to ignore 
any outlying valuation. Or alternatively, we can take the average of all three valuations. In 
this instance we can use either approach, because looking at the three guide prices together 
the amount being offered is fair
Using the first approach we can see the Cazana valuation is an outlier. And looking at the 
Cazana valuation I can see why. When Cazana provide us with a valuation they also provide 
a list of similar vans sold in the UK around that time. Helpfully, this is very thorough live data 
from around the date of the theft. And looking at this information I can see that the average 
van with a mileage of approximately 40-50k miles was selling at around £8,000. But there is 
only one van on the list, with very low mileage which was sold for a substantially higher 
price. And this is affecting the average price on the Cazana valuation tool. So, its coming 
out slightly higher than the rest.
But I dont want to discount the Cazana valuation and I think its only fair we include this 
valuation even if it is slightly distorted. The reality is that outside of the normal criteria that 
drive the price such as age, mileage, or additional extras, we are aware that the national 
lockdown following Covid restrictions has had a specific impact on the sale of commercial 
vehicles. So I think it makes sense to rely on all the guides in this case to make sure the 
valuation is fair. 
In terms of the evidence Mr D has submitted, hes advised that hes struggling to find a van 
with the same spec and condition online. So, hes provided a few similar examples. But I can 
see that these examples are a higher specification than his own van. So even though they 
have similar mileages, Im not surprised they are a higher value. So, Im going to have to 
discount these examples as they are out of sync with the data from the guides, and theyre 
not a like for like specification of Mr Ds van. Its not up to this service to place an exact valuation on Mr Ds vehicle. Its our role to make 
sure UKI is giving Mr D a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. And based on the 
information provided about Mr Ds van and using the trade guides alongside the evidence Mr 
D has submitted, Im satisfied that the market value that UKI has placed on Mr Ds vehicle is 
fair and reasonable. 
I also note that UKI did mislead Mr D when he tried to claim for a sat nav system and audio 
equipment. But I can see UKI has awarded Mr D £100 in compensation for this unnecessary 
error and Im satisfied this is a fair amount for the inconvenience caused. I also note Mr D 
has raised the issue of the inconvenience and distress caused by not having a van. But as I 
think the valuation offered by UKI is fair and given the circumstances, it was offered in a 
reasonable time frame, I wont be asking UKI to do any more in relation to this 
inconvenience.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman