DRN-2714939
The complaint
Mr T complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has refused to refund a series of 
disputed transactions made from his current account in October 2020. 
What happened
Mr T travelled abroad in October 2020 to visit family. Mr T hired a car upon arriving at his 
destination. 
Mr T withdraw cash from an ATM machine. For around the next eight days a series of nine 
ATM transactions were made which totalled over £2,000. The transactions are well known to 
both parties, so I wont list them in detail here. 
Mr T called NatWest three days after the last of the transactions he disputes occurred. He 
said he only used an ATM machine to withdraw cash for the hire car upon arriving at his 
destination, and for the remainder of his trip. He says he was in possession of his debit card, 
that he hadnt given it to anyone, and his PIN number wasnt written down anywhere.  
Mr T adds that his debit card was kept safe alongside his passport and other such items in a 
man bag he kept on him. 
On a call, NatWest told Mr T it was declining his claim as there was no plausible reason to 
explain how an unauthorised individual got hold of his card, guessed his PIN and then 
returned it several days later before he travelled back to the UK. 
Unhappy with this Mr T complained to NatWest. In its final response NatWest - in summary - 
said: 
Mr T was in possession of his debit card and hadnt suspected anybody of 
committing this fraud 
The transactions were carried out using the physical card
As Mr T says he didnt write his PIN down, there isnt anything to explain how it was 
compromised
The payments were either made by Mr T or someone who he authorised to do so
 
Mr T then referred his complaint to this service. An investigator looked into his complaint, but 
she didnt uphold it. Having looked at the sequence of events and the circumstances, she felt 
it was more likely than not Mr T authorised the transactions himself or gave authority to 
someone else to do so. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He questions the integrity of NatWests 
evidence. It follows this matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint 
Mr T, so Ill explain why. 
In short, NatWest is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). Mr T says he didnt make the nine ATM cash withdrawals totalling over £2,000 and is 
seeking a refund. 
So my primary concern is to decide whether or I not I think Mr T authorised these 
transactions. 
NatWest has given me technical reports for Mr Ts current account. Amongst other things 
these reports show details of dates, times, amounts, what method or terminal was used for 
the transactions; and whether a CHIP was read, and PIN entered.   
As a regulated bank, NatWest is required to comply with a wide range of law and regulation. 
This will include keeping records of its customers banking activity. And Id expect it to send 
this information to this service when its needed to investigate a complaint. I note Mr T 
questions the integrity of this evidence. But having closely looked at these reports, Im 
satisfied theyre reliable. 
Having reviewed this data very carefully, Im satisfied the genuine card and PIN were used in 
order for the disputed transactions to take place. That means I think the transactions in 
dispute were authenticated. 
But that isnt enough to hold Mr T liable, given the regulations Ive mentioned above. I now 
need to consider whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr T consented to 
the transactions being made. 
Mr T says he used his NatWest debit card to withdraw funds to pay for his hire car. After 
which, all the ATM transactions debited from his account over the next eight days were not 
authorised by him. 
One of the possibilities I need to consider is whether Mr Ts card was cloned. But I dont 
think thats likely here. I say that because NatWests records show the genuine card and 
CHIP were read - and therefore physically present  when the transactions were carried out. 
Based on what our service has seen, and the industry guidance available to us, we have yet 
to see a complaint where the CHIP on a card was cloned.   
Mr T says he had stored his debit card safely in his personal man bag. And when he 
discovered the series of disputed transactions, he was still in possession of his card. If these 
transactions were carried out by an unauthorised individual, that would mean they would 
have taken the card and then returned it to Mr Ts bag without his knowledge. To my mind 
that seems an unlikely and improbable scenario given the risk, and close access required to 
Mr T, to pull it off.  
Mr T says he didnt write his PIN down anywhere. NatWests records show the PIN was 
entered correctly without any invalid attempts. Mr T doesnt know how anyone came to know 
of his PIN, and he is clear he hadnt given it to anyone.  Mr T says he used his card to 
withdraw cash to pay for his hire car the day before the fraudulent transactions took place. NatWests records arent consistent with this. They show the first transaction as having taken 
place the following day albeit at midnight. So it appears Mr T paid for the hire car from 
money he already had. Mr T has also said he had taken cash with him for his trip. 
If however, I accept Mr Ts testimony that he did withdraw money on that day to pay for the 
hire car, then it means someone would have had to have shoulder surfed him at that point 
to see what his PIN number was. They would then have had to steal Mr Ts card without him 
knowing, and then waited the next day to start carrying out the fraud. And then they would 
have located him some eight days later to put the card back. Having thought about this, Im 
persuaded this is a very unlikely scenario.  
Equally, if Mr T is mistaken and he used his card to withdraw money on the same day it was 
stolen  in other words the day after he paid for the hire car  Im still not persuaded an 
opportunistic fraudster carried out the transactions. I say that because they would still have 
had to steal the card and then returned the card to him unnoticed. Something that Ive 
already said is unlikely given what circumstances would need to have come together for this 
to happen. 
Mr T says it wasnt someone known to him. But I question why an opportunistic fraudster 
unknown to Mr T would go through the risk stealing and then returning the card to him. And 
why, instead, they wouldnt continue to maximise any benefit for as long as they were able 
to. It seems to me very unusual behaviour on the part of a fraudster.  
Mr Ts online banking records show he logged in on the last day the transactions he disputes 
were carried out. And then one more time the following day. Mr T doesnt remember too 
much about this. Mr T reported the transactions, and made a claim for them to be refunded, 
three days after he logged into his online banking. As over £2,000 was taken from his 
account, I find it difficult to understand why he didnt call NatWest much sooner given he 
would likely have seen his balance when logging on. 
So after weighing everything up, and for the reasons given above, Im persuaded its more 
likely Mr T, or someone he authorised, carried out the transactions he disputes. In turn, that 
means I find it less likely an unauthorised person carried out the transactions. So I wont be 
asking NatWest to refund Mr T any of the transactions.   
For the sake of completeness, Id like to add that Mr T paid for a visa with a UK Government 
agency mid-way through the eight-day period the disputed transactions were being carried 
out. Ordinarily, several details about the debit card would be needed to carry out this type of 
transaction. For example, the long card number, CVC number and expiry date. 
Its possible Mr T committed these details to memory, but that would be quite unusual. So I 
think its less likely. But even if he did, its likely he would have reached for his debit card to 
make the payment. This suggests the card was somehow returned into Mr Ts possession, 
and then re-taken and returned. In any event, I dont need to make a finding on this point 
given what Ive said above.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Ketan NaglaOmbudsman