DRN-3264859
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of ongoing claims
about their heating system under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A say that engineers visited to fix problems with their heating and hot water
system on more than twenty occasions between September 2016 and January 2021. At the
last visit in January 2021 they say work was carried out to replace a pump, add a second
filter, correct a feed from the hot water cylinder and replace a leaking flow switch. They have
experienced no more problems since then.
Mr and Mrs A believe the work carried out in January 2021 should have been carried out far
sooner. If so, they think over four years of ongoing issues could have been avoided. They
say engineers have repeatedly replaced parts and carried out work that was not needed,
which has created more problems and taken more time to resolve.
Mr and Mrs A obtained a report from an independent engineer in December 2020. This
identifies several issues with the system. The engineer says, In my professional opinion,
there appears to have been a catalogue of incompetencys with regards to both the hot
water and central heating systems.
British Gas says there are issues with how the system was originally installed. This is why
there have been ongoing problems. It says its engineers dont go looking for a design fault
where this isnt obvious, when maintaining existing equipment. It says its engineers repaired
the issues identified, which often involved component failures and replacement of these
parts.
The company says it incorrectly diagnosed that a power flush was needed. It says the
problem was air in the system caused by a design fault. Its now refunded the charges for
this work.
British Gas acknowledges some issues occurred when it installed a hot water cylinder. This
meant a shower wasnt working for six weeks. Although it does explain that another shower
was available for Mr and Mrs A to use. The company says four excess fees were charged in
error, which it has refunded. It also accepts inconvenience has resulted due to the number of
engineer visits that occurred. It offered £250 in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience Mr and Mrs A experienced.
British Gas has suggested three options that it thinks will resolve the inherent problems with
the design of the heating and hot water system. It says this work is not covered under its
policy.
Mr and Mrs A thought the compensation offer was inadequate for the level of distress and
inconvenience they had experienced for over four years. They asked our service to look into
their concerns. Our investigator decided not to uphold their complaint. She thought it likely
that the faults the engineers found were consistent with component failures, and that they
responded appropriately to fix those issues. She didnt think British Gas acted unfairly in
dealing with the problems as they appeared.
Our investigator thought the refunds and compensation offered by British Gas was fair. Mr
and Mrs A disagreed and asked that an ombudsman review their complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr and Mrs As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
Mr and Mrs A have a HomeCare 4 policy with British Gas. This covers them for repairs to
their boiler and its controls, central heating and plumbing. My remit is to consider whether
the company acted reasonably when carrying out repairs with respect to the policy terms.
I have looked at what the policy terms say. The following are of relevance here:
Definitions: repair(s)/repairing/repaired: - to fix your boiler, appliance or system following an
individual fault or breakdown.
And
Pre-existing faults:
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
 were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
 existed when you first took out the product;
 weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work has been completed by a
third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to a satisfactory standard;
 we couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for example, faulty
pipes that dont have the correct protection, or which are buried under concrete floors; or
 prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over.
Also:
Making any improvements:
Your product only includes repairing or replacing your boiler, appliance or system when it
stops working properly  it doesnt include any improvements or upgrades, for example:
replacing smoke alarms that are past their recommended replacement date or expiry date,
replacing working radiators, swapping standard radiator valves for thermostatic ones or
replacing electrical cables and fuseboards that still work.
Where weve told you that an improvement is necessary, we may not continue to make
repairs on that part of your boiler, appliance or system unless the work has been carried
out.
Over twenty engineer visits took place between September 2016 and January 2021. I have
reviewed the engineer records, in conjunction with Mr and Mrs As information to understand
more about the repairs that were undertaken.Various problems were identified with the heating system over the years, including issues
with: electrodes, a pump flow switch, filters, valves, the condensate trap, air vent, zone
valve, sludge in system and the hot water cylinder. Again, from the records, various causes
were suspected including blockages in the pipes, blocked filters, a problem with a soakaway,
incorrectly fitted components, air in the system, a leak in the under-floor heating pipes,
a faulty hot water coil amongst others.
In considering whether the action taken was appropriate I have, in part, relied on the expert
opinion provided by British Gas and Mr and Mrs As engineer.
Mr and Mrs As engineer says:
The hot water cylinder is installed the wrong way round. It is common practice to be able to
see the following to allow ease of maintenance
 Zone valve
 Secondary flow and return
 Cylinder stat
The 22mm shower feed on the cylinder has been capped off. The hot shower feed has been
teed off of the top of the cylinder in 15mm copper with NO Surrey flange installed. This is
allowing air bubbles to enter the pump which is impeding the flow of water to the shower.
The correct installation would have been to use the shower feed supplied on the cylinder
which is it's purpose.(The shower pump is in perfect working order).
The original 22mm cold feed to the shower pump has been capped off and a new 15mm
polypipe has been installed, I'm really confused as to why this has happened.
And:
Central Heating
The central heating pump has been installed on the return to the boiler. In this installation the
vent pipework should be a minimum height of 1.33mtr in the flow. As this hasn't been
installed correctly, this is causing 'pump over'. When this occurs water is forced through the
open safety vent pipe because of the extra pressure created. This will cause oxygenation of
the system water and rapidly leads to severe corrosion and system breakdown.
The Fernox TF1 Omega filter has been installed on the flow from the boiler and should be
installed on the return to the boiler. The boiler is not being protected as sludge is passing
through the boiler prior to being filtered. It is imperative that this is corrected.
In my professional opinion, there appears to have been a catalogue of incompetency's with
regards to both the hot water and central heating systems.
We asked British Gas to comment on the independent report. It provided a response to each
of the points made by Mr and Mrs As engineer, as below:
We only replaced the cylinder in the same orientation that the old cylinder was fitted to [sic]
that the flow and returns were at the back. This was confirmed as the pipes were painted
and not new
This has been rectified by Jamie Meade and the shower piped to the draw off which is fitted
on the side of the cylinder. However the old cylinder wasnt piped onto a surrey flange or
cylinder draw off. It was piped to the main hot water draw off
I dont believe that Carl did this when he replaced the cylinder as he doesnt carry poly pipe
only copper pipe and when I spoke to Carl about this he said that he put the shower
connection back to as it was and didnt alter the poly pipeWe didnt install the boiler or upgrade it to a fully pumped system this is a design fault from
the installer. The engineers dont go looking for a design fault when maintain existing
equipment if it isnt obvious. The breakdowns that we were called to was boiler locking out to
which you would suspect component failure and these were roughly 6 months apart
Yes the filter was installed on the flow and can be however best practice is for it to be on the
return this has been rectified as a new filter has been fitted on the return and the old one left
in place
Yes I agree with this but this has come about from the origional [sic] installation not the
maintanance [sic] of it.
I have thought about the problems identified by the independent engineer, and the repairs
British Gas carried out.
My understanding is the replacement hot water cylinder was installed using the existing
arrangement of pipework. This is criticised in the report as a smaller diameter feed pipe was
used rather than the available 22mm feed. It says this impeded the flow of water to the
shower. The report also points to a surrey flange not being used. Again, British Gas says
when it fitted the new cylinder, it did so within the existing installation, and there was no
surrey flange in place. It has since rectified these issues.
British Gas provides a similar response regarding concerns about the central heating pump
and vent pipework installation. It has replaced the pump. However, it maintains it isnt
responsible for the design of the system, which it points to as the underlying cause of the
problem.
Regarding the filter that was installed by British Gas in the flow as opposed to the return,
the company has provided the manufacturers specification. This explains the filter is used to
remove contaminants from central heating system water and says it can be fitted in both flow
directions. Albeit British Gas also says best practice is to install it in the return flow. I note
another filter was subsequently installed in the return flow to address this point.
In considering this, it does appear there were issues that could have been noticed and
addressed by British Gas earlier. Specifically, the wrong feed used for the shower when the
cylinder was replaced and the lack of an appropriate flange. In addition to the fitment of a
filter, which the company concedes doesnt align with a best practice approach.
British Gas sent an email to Mr and Mrs A in January 2021. This explains how the system
wasnt set up correctly when it was converted from a gravity fed system to a fully pumped
system. Specifically, that the open vent and cold feed are situated in the airing cupboard. For
a fully pumped system it says they should be installed behind the pump, which is in the
workshop. It says this can create corrosion/sludge in the heating system. As mentioned
earlier it sets out three options to overcome this problem.
The independent report also raised concerns with the positioning of the central heating pump
and the vent pipework. It says this incorrect installation will result in oxygenation of the
system water, resulting in rapid and severe corrosion and system breakdown.
Mr and Mrs A think the suggestions from British Gas for further work are unnecessary as the
system is now working. They believe the work to replace the central heating pump, adding
the second filter, replacing a leaking flow switch on the boiler and correcting the shower feed
from the cylinder, have resolved the problem. And this should have happened much sooner.I acknowledge their view that damage was caused by the filter being in the wrong pipe and
debris entering the system. They say when British Gas fitted a dirt separation filter, this was
on the wrong pipe so continued to allow debris in the system. They also point to the system
working without a problem from 2011 until 2017  albeit I note several engineer visits did
take place earlier in 2016.
Having considered all of this, the expert opinions seem to agree that there are design flaws
with the system  that if left unresolved will likely cause problems in the near future. It seems
probable a design fault was the reason so many repairs were necessary. Replacing the
pump and adding the filter, along with the other repairs discussed, has resulted in a working
system. But its possible problems will manifest again, if action isnt taken to ensure the
system is set up correctly.
That said, British Gas engineers visited Mr and Mrs As home on numerous occasions over a
significant period  carrying out many different repairs to various different areas of the
heating system. I think its reasonable to expect the company could have given thought to
why so many call outs were taking place and employ a different approach to simply replacing
components as and when they failed.
From the information discussed above, I think its likely that had this happened a working
reliable system could have been achieved sooner, or at the least Mr and Mrs A would be
aware of what the problem was  even if the work wasnt covered under their policy.
I accept the policy is intended to repair an existing installation and not improve what is
already in place. However, in these circumstances I think more could have been done to
identify the problem and explain to Mr and Mrs A what was needed, earlier.
Its fair that British Gas refunded the cost of the wrongly diagnosed power flush, and the
incorrectly charged excess payments. I also think it was reasonable to refund the cost of the
independent report and for the third-party charges for repairing the power shower. For the
distress and inconvenience experienced I think compensation was also appropriate. But I
think a higher amount is indicated in these circumstances.
Mr and Mrs A spent many hours on the phone to British Gas dealing with these problems
and time spent arranging access for engineers. They struggled with an unreliable hot water
and heating system over four and a half years. I note Mrs A describes having to bleed
radiators early every morning to try and get the boiler to fire up. And that this whole episode
has been very distressing for her and her family, when it neednt have been.
I dont doubt the impact the problems described have had in terms of the inconvenience and
distress caused by the lack of a reliable heating system. Some inconvenience is to be
expected when things go wrong. But as discussed above, these problems continued for
several years and I think they neednt have.
Because of this I think a compensation payment of £500 is more appropriate to acknowledge
the distress and inconvenience experienced.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
- pay Mr and Mrs A compensation of £500, in total, for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.We didnt receive further comments or information from Mr and Mrs A or from British Gas. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party submitted further comments or information for me to consider, so my final 
decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
In summary I thought it reasonable that British Gas couldve taken a different approach to 
consider why it was replacing so many components in Mr and Mrs As heating system. Had it 
done so the underlying issue couldve been brought to their attention sooner, allowing them 
to take appropriate action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs 
As complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited must now:
- pay Mr and Mrs A compensation of £500, in total, for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman