DRN-1987516
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Society of Lloyd's (the Society) decision to decline his claim made on 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
All references in this decision to the Society include its claims-handling agents.
What happened
Mr S fixed term contract (FTC) with his employer started in May 2018. His employer 
terminated the contract in July 2019, after which he told the Society he wanted to make an 
unemployment claim.
The Society investigated the claim but decided not to accept it. It said the policy terms and 
conditions excluded claims for unemployment, among other things, because a FTC has 
ended. There were exceptions to the general exclusion  such as where the insured had 
continuously worked for the same employer for 12 months and the contract had been 
renewed at least once  but the Society didnt consider that they applied to this claim. 
Mr S said that, although his original contract was estimated to end in January 2019, it was 
extended to May 2019 and that it didnt eventually end until July 2019. He said hed been in 
full-time employment for over 12 months and that his claim should be paid. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. They believed 
the Society had assessed the claim fairly given the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
No insurance policys intended to cover each and every event that might arise. The terms 
and conditions of the policy will set out the scope of the cover and what is and isnt covered. 
In this case, I note the starting point is that the Society says it wont pay unemployment 
benefits if the insured works on a FTC which ends. 
The policy goes on to say that the exclusion clause wont apply if: 
you have been in continuous work with the same employer for at least 24 months;
or 12 months and your contract has been renewed at least once;
or you were originally employed on a permanent basis by the same employer but 
were transferred fixed term contract by the employer without a break in employment 
and you had no reason to believe that it would not be renewed again
So, there are effectively three ways in which someone might still be able to claim on the 
policy when their FTC ends. In my view, the third way outlined above clearly doesnt apply to 
Mr S claim. As I understand it, he wasnt employed by his employer on a permanent basis 
and wasnt transferred to a FTC.
Equally, I think its clear the first way doesnt apply here either since the paperwork from 
Mr S employer shows his employment started in May 2018. His employer terminated his 
employment with effect from July 2019, so he wasnt in work for the same employer for 24 
months or more. 
That leaves me to consider whether Mr S had been working for his employer for 12 months 
or more and had his contract renewed at least once. The answer to this questions less clear 
than the others. There no doubt that Mr S was employed for more than 12 months overall. 
And I can see, for example, that Mr S employer wrote to him in January 2019 to tell him his 
contract had been extended  the term used by the employer  to around May 2019. I also 
note his employment continued beyond that time and until July 2019.  
This raises the question of whether Mr S contract was renewed at least once. Mr S says it 
was whereas the Society argues it was extended rather than renewed. Unfortunately, but 
unsurprisingly, the policy terms dont define the term renewed. In the absence of a 
definition, Ive considered the ordinary, everyday meaning of the word within the context of 
the PPI policy as a whole.
In my view, a renewal of the contract suggests a new and formal refreshment of the original 
contract, perhaps for the same or a similar duration. And I think an extension suggests a less 
formal lengthening of the original contract thats more likely to be for a shorter period of time.
Although its not conclusive one way or the other, Mr S employer said in January 2019 his 
contract would be extended to around May 2019. That indicates to me that it intentionally 
avoided simply renewing the existing contract, probably because it didnt expect there to be 
enough work for Mr S for a further eight months (that being how long the employer initially 
expected work to last for). Although Mr S contract didnt end until July 2019, the overall 
extension was still significantly shorter than the expected length of the original contract.  
All of this suggests to me that Mr S contract wasnt renewed based on a fair and reasonable 
interpretation of that word. Taking everything into account, I dont think the Society acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman