DRN-2417468
The complaint
Mr T complains about delays Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited caused while 
dealing with his stocks and shares ISA transfer resulting in a financial loss. 
What happened
 Mr T says he submitted an ISA transfer form to Hargreaves in January 2020. He specifically 
stated that £25,000 should be transferred in cash. He says this would mean that only part of 
the investment would need to be sold to transfer this amount.
He says, Hargreaves treated his request as a stocks and shares ISA instead of a cash 
transfer. He says this came to light around four weeks after the initial request when he called 
for an update. This resulted in delays in his request being actioned and wasnt transferred 
until March 2020. In the time it took to arrange the transfer, the share price had changed, 
and so additional shares had to be sold to achieve the £25,000 cash that was required. Had 
the instruction to do a cash transfer been carried out when requested, fewer investments 
would have been sold to obtain the same cash value. 
Hargreaves recognised the delays theyd caused and offered Mr T £237 in compensation. 
He felt this didnt adequately resolve his complaint, so he asked us to consider this. 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint and in the process of their 
investigations Hargreaves highlighted that Mr T hadnt actually suffered a loss as a result of 
the delays. They say if the transfer was completed when it was supposed to do, he would in 
fact have lost money. Mr T did proceed to re-invest his money and made a profit from this. 
So, whilst they accept the delays were their fault and agree to compensate him for these 
delays, they dont believe he suffered a financial loss from the transfer itself and dont agree 
to compensate him any further. 
The investigator agreed with Hargreaves that Mr T should be compensated for the delays, 
but as no financial loss has been incurred, this part shouldnt be upheld.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent commented on every single point, Id like to assure Mr T that I have 
considered everything including the correspondence hes sent after the investigators view. 
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain further.
I understand Mr T was concerned that hes lost funds for the period between January 
2020 when the request to transfer funds was made and March 2020 when the funds were 
received. Both Hargreaves and Mr T agree that delays in processing the request were 
caused by Hargreaves, and this is not in dispute. What hasnt been agreed is whether he 
was at a financial loss as a result of these delays, so here I have focused on the 
calculation of his losses.
Mr T says that the delay in processing meant a larger number of shares had to be sold to 
achieve £25,000 and as such Hargreaves should pay him the difference in funds. When a 
business makes a mistake, our aim is to put the consumer back in the position they would 
have been in had it not been for the mistake. Hargreaves looked to put things right by 
calculating the difference in the number of units sold to those which would have been sold if 
the transfer had been processed on the expected date.  So, they calculated a sum of £137 
for loss of interest. They also offered an additional £100 as an apology for delays incurred. I 
understand the total amount of £237 has already been paid. They later confirmed that there 
wasnt a one month delay in the executing the transfer, it was corrected in February 2020 but 
have honoured the offer they made.
In order to ensure his losses have been recovered adequately, I would normally consider 
what Mr T would have done with the funds from the transfer. Here we can see that he 
went on to re-invest the funds at a later date, so, Ive looked at the impact the delay has 
had on the re-investment. Ive used the same method as Hargreaves to understand if 
there has been any financial loss, and if so, how much. Re-investing the funds later meant 
he was able to make a profit from a better market position.  Mr T chose to re-invest at a 
later date and so has in fact benefitted from any delays. 
Hargreaves dont believe they should have to make additional compensation to Mr T when 
he hasnt suffered a loss. I agree with Hargreaves, that they shouldnt have to pay further 
compensation to him in this situation. Our role at this service is to put things right when a 
business has done something wrong not to punish them for a mistake or allow a consumer 
to benefit from an error thats been made. 
Hargreaves already paid Mr T a total of £237 in compensation. I think this amount is in line 
with the kind of compensation we would expect a business to pay for the delays that have 
been caused here. I know he will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant fairly say 
that they should pay more as Mr T hasnt actually suffered any financial loss as a result of 
their actions.  
  
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown 
Advisory Services Limited. They have already paid Mr T £237.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman