DRN-4008886
The complaint
Mr S and Ms W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC won't refund in full money they lost as a 
result of a scam.
What happened
On 15 February 2023, I issued my provisional decision on this complaint. I wanted to give 
both sides the chance to submit any further evidence and arguments before I issued my final 
decision. That provisional decision forms part of this final decision and is copied below.
What happened
Though the payments which are the subject of this complaint came from a joint account held 
by Mr Sand Ms W, it was Mr S that interacted with the fraudsters and made the payments, 
so I've generally referred to him throughout this provisional decision.
Mr S became involved in an investment scam. He was initially persuaded to make a 
relatively small card payment towards the scheme, but after his investment appeared to be 
doing well, he was persuaded to invest increasing amounts.
In order to fund the investment, the fraudsters opened an account with a legitimate 
cryptocurrency provider for Mr S. He sent funds to that account, which were converted into 
cryptocurrency and sent to cryptocurrency addresses presumably controlled by the 
fraudsters.
I count a total of ten payments made from Mr S' Lloyds bank account (one payment of £20 
on 21 May 2020 does not appear to have been noted by Mr S' representatives, but it credits 
the same cryptocurrency account that Mr S made the other payments to). In addition I 
understand Mr S made an initial payment of £207 using a credit card. I have not been 
provided with any evidence about which card this payment was made on but, for reasons I'll 
go onto explain, I don't need to consider it further.
Mr S eventually ran out of money, but he was persuaded to continue investing by taking out 
loans and borrowing money.
On 20 August 2020, having already sent a significant sum to the fraudsters, Mr S applied for, 
and was granted, a loan of £10,000. After the loan was credited to his account, he attempted 
to send a payment to the cryptocurrency provider, but the payment was stopped for security 
checks. Mr S had five separate telephone calls with the bank before this payment was 
released. The first call was cut off after some discussions about the payment. After the
 
second and third he was referred to the branch to make the payment. A fourth call took place 
from the branch to the bank's fraud team and the final call, during which the payment was 
released, took place after Mr Shad left the branch. During those calls Lloyds questioned Mr 
S about the payment and clearly had concerns about some of the responses he provided.
I've briefly summarised the contents of those calls:
-Mr S said he was putting a deposit down for the purchase of an expensive vintage 
car.
-He'd test driven the car.
-He was unable or unwilling to provide the registration of the vehicle.
-He was initially unable or unwilling to say where he was purchasing the vehicle from, 
but later provided the name of a car dealership.
-He claimed to have won the lottery and said that the account the money was being 
sent to had been set up for him as a result of his lottery win in order to manage his 
money, which explained why he was reluctant to provide information about it.
-He was in the business of buying and selling cars.
-He was paying his own account, rather than paying the dealership directly, but 
couldn't explain why.
-He explained that he'd made payments previously to the same account for some time 
without issue.
-Mr S mistakenly identified the account as belonging to a particular bank. He 
confirmed that he had not been asked to mislead the bank.
-If the bank was unwilling to let the payment go through, Mr S said that he'd make the 
payment in another way.
When Mr S asked to withdraw his money from the investment he was told that he couldn't do 
this unless he paid various fees. Eventually the fraudsters stopped corresponding with Mr S 
and he reported the matter to his bank through a representative.
Lloyds contacted Mr S directly to discuss the matter, but he was unhappy with the way in 
which the conversation was conducted, leaving him feeling bullied and intimidated. He was 
further unhappy that, after raising a complaint about the conversation, it was investigated by 
the same person he'd originally spoken to.
Lloyds responded to, and declined, the complaint about its service but didn't address 
whether it was liable for Mr S' losses.
Mr S referred the matter to our service. Lloyds said that it didn't have enough information in 
order to assess Mr S' claim because he had declined to provide information to it.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought that the bank should have 
intervened to question the activity at an earlier point - when the third payment was being 
attempted. They thought that, had this happened, Mr S wouldn't have carried on with the 
payments and any further loss would have been prevented.
Lloyds agreed it should have intervened at an earlier point but thought that Mr S should take 
some responsibility for what happened, particularly as it felt he had misled its staff during the 
phone calls it had with him. So, it offered to refund 50% of payments three to nine, as well as 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date of the payments to the date of 
settlement.
Our investigator, on reflection, agreed that this was a fair outcome. They pointed to the fact 
Mr S had made it very difficult for Lloyds to warn him about this particular type of scam 
because he hadn't been open about the reason for the payment. They also noted his 
determination to continue with the payments and that he suggested he would simply use 
another bank to make the payment if Lloyds refused to make it. The investigator didn't think 
that the call between Lloyds and Mr S had been handled poorly and didn't make any award 
of compensation. Mr S' representatives didn't agree. In summary, they argued:
-Mr S was under the control of sophisticated fraudsters and had been told what to say 
during the calls. It wasn't fair to blame him as the victim.
-It was irrelevant that Mr S had told the bank that he would make the payment using 
another bank if Lloyds declined it. Lloyds still had an obligation to protect him from 
fraud.
-Lloyds failed to contact Mr S about any of the other payments which were sent from 
his account to the fraudster.
-By the time the £10,203 payment was made, Mr S was already desperate to recover 
the funds he'd sent. If the intervention had taken place earlier, Mr S would have 
behaved differently.
-Authority given as a consequence of criminal deception is not true authority.
-The investigator's description of the later call between Mr S and Lloyds' claim handler 
is unfair and Mr S should be compensated for this incident.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no dispute that Mr S carried out the transactions in dispute, albeit under deception. 
Under the relevant regulations - the Payment Services Regulations 2017 ("PSR 2017") - Mr 
S is responsible for transactions he's authorised. It's important to note that the PSR 2017 
governs the relationship between the customer and payment service provider, not the 
contractual relations between the customer and the payee. While deception might invalidate 
the latter, it does not invalidate authority under the PSR 2017.
I've also considered whether the payments could be considered under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model "CRM Code". That doesn't appear to be 
the view of the investigator, bank or Mr S and his representatives. Under the provisions of 
the CRM Code, only payments made to 'another person' are potentially eligible for 
reimbursement.
In this case, it isn't disputed (and evidence has been obtained to show) that the payments Mr 
S made from his Lloyds account went to a cryptocurrency account held in his own name. Mr 
S says the fraudster told him that they would set up this account for him using, he presumes, identity documents he provided. He also said that he recalls the fraudster having control of 
the cursor on his computer and making the payments on the screen in front of him.
Overall, though the fraudster clearly had a significant role in setting up and using the 
account, I think I can fairly say that it was set up on Mr S' behalf, with his consent and that 
he appears to have had some access to it. So, I think it would be reasonable to say that the 
payments from his Lloyds account initially did not go to another person and therefore are not 
covered under the CRM Code.
However, taking into account the law, regulators' rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Lloyds have agreed to refund 50% of the payments after and including payment three 
(excluding the small £20 payment I mentioned earlier). For the avoidance of doubt, I don't 
think that Lloyds ought to have intervened any earlier than it did, as up to that point the 
transactions were not particularly out of the ordinary.
Mr S' representatives point to the other payments that he made that did not prompt the bank 
to intervene. I can't agree there would be any expectation on the bank to intervene on each 
and every payment. Instead, it should have intervened when the payments became so 
unusual and out of character that there were reasonable grounds to suspect Mr S might be 
at risk of financial harm from fraud.
So, the question is not how many times the bank intervened, but rather whether it intervened 
when it should have done and whether such an intervention would have made a difference 
to Mr S' decision to go ahead with the payments.
Had the bank intervened at the point identified by the investigator, I'm not convinced that 
conversation would have been radically different to the conversations which did take place 
when the bank did intervene. As Mr S' representative points out, he was under the influence 
of sophisticated fraudsters, he had been told what to say and 'believed it was common 
practice for banks to behave in this way when making transfers and that he needed to be 
persistent if he wanted the benefits of the investment he was being offered'.
It's evident that Mr S was prepared to follow the fraudster's instructions to mislead the bank 
and believed this was entirely normal. I don't know exactly what he was told to say to the 
bank, but I get the impression he was able to be quite creative in the face of questioning (for example by claiming to have won the lottery). I also have to note that even at that earlier 
point, Mr S believed that he was engaged with a lucrative investment and, I think, would 
have been reluctant to give up such an opportunity.
That's not to say the bank wouldn't have had any concerns about what Mr S was doing. It's 
likely that - just as with the later calls - he would have given some information that was 
inconsistent or worrying. For example, in the later calls he said he was using the money to 
buy a car, but he didn't know what the registration was of the car and wouldn't reveal the 
name of the dealership he was buying it from. He was also mistaken about where the 
payment was going and the name of the bank it was going to. But, as happened later, I think 
all the bank could reasonably do was to refer the payment for further checks. Ultimately, the 
only significant evidence I have of how Mr S reacted to being questioned about the 
payments shows that he was insistent that they were for a legitimate purpose. It also 
demonstrates that he was prepared to provide further information to the bank in order to give 
credibility to his claims about what the payments were for (for example, by later introducing 
the name of the car dealership).
That evidence shows that even after five conversations with the bank, Mr S was still 
unwilling to divulge the true reasons for the payments. I'm conscious that even if the bank 
had stopped Mr S making the payments altogether, it could not have held onto his money 
indefinitely (and, in any case, I'm not persuaded there would have been sufficient grounds 
for it to do this when payment three took place). And, while I accept that Mr S saying that 
he'd make the payments using another bank doesn't absolve Lloyds from its obligations, it's 
relevant when considering whether the bank's actions could have prevented Mr S' loss. I 
think Mr S' determination to go ahead means he likely would have used another bank to 
make the payments had Lloyds refused.
Though I understand that Mr S was keen to reap the profits from the investment, I'm not sure 
why he would have been desperate at that stage - there was no indication (as far as I'm 
aware) that he'd been told he couldn't withdraw his profits (as he was later). So, I'm not 
persuaded Mr S would have been any more open about the reasons for the payments had 
an earlier intervention taken place.
It's also important to bear in mind that at the point the third payment was made, there was 
arguably less reason for the bank to be concerned. That payment was for a smaller value 
and wasn't the proceeds of a loan.
Throughout the calls there was also absolutely no suggestion from Mr S that he was 
involved in an investment of any kind, so it would have been very difficult for the bank to give 
a warning about investment scams and it could have only done so based on the fact that he 
was paying a cryptocurrency provider.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, but I'm afraid that there's no general obligation on 
Lloyds to refund here and such a finding is dependent on whether it could have reasonably 
stopped the scam. I don't think it could, so I think Lloyds' offer, although it may not 
completely reflect 50% of his losses after and including payment 3, puts him in a significantly 
better position than I intend to recommend.
In relation to the recovery of Mr S' funds, I can see that Mr S' money was converted into 
cryptocurrency and sent from a cryptocurrency platform to the fraudsters. I'm afraid that, 
given the nature of this kind of transaction, the prospect of any recovery was always going to 
be remote.
Finally, in relation to the telephone call which Mr S had with the bank after the scam took 
place, I'm surprised by its tone. It was quite clearly stated that it was very likely Mr S' claim would be declined unless he agreed to talk over the phone. As far as I'm concerned, Mr S 
was entitled to request contact through his representative and it was wrong for the bank to 
suggest that this was necessarily to his detriment. The bank's advisor ought to have 
accepted Mr S' request and, in my view, his tone was unnecessarily argumentative. I can 
understand why this caused Mr S more distress in a very difficult set of circumstances.
So, in relation to the main matter of this complaint, the liability for the loss, I don't think 
Lloyds is responsible. I will consider any further submissions before a final decision, but if Mr
S and Ms W wish to accept the offer Lloyds have made, they should let our investigator 
know or contact Lloyds directly.
However, I do find that the administration of the claim was poor and I think that warrants 
£250 in compensation.
My provisional decision
I intend to instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr S and Ms W £250 in compensation.
Lloyds didnt provide any further submissions. Mr S didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. Through his representatives, in summary he argued that:
-It was unfair and inaccurate to suggest that he had misled the bank. It was true that 
he had won the lottery in 2011 (a fact he did not wish to disclose to our service) and 
he could provide evidence of this. The impression that he has misled the bank seems 
to have unfairly influenced the decision reached.
-My analysis of the transactions was inaccurate, and I seem to be under the mistaken 
impression that the bank contacted him about more than one of the payments.
-It was wrong to suggest that the fact money had come from a loan represented a 
heightened risk of fraud.
-It was also wrong to say that the third payment was of smaller value than the first 
two.
-The bank failed to contact him about any of the other payments, which were, despite 
my finding otherwise, very out of character.
-Had the bank offered to help, rather than suggested he was being dishonest, he 
would have acted differently and his loss would have been prevented.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained that I thought that, had the bank intervened at the 
earlier point suggested by the investigator (payment 3), the conversation wouldnt have been 
significantly different from the conversation which took place when it did intervene and that 
Mr S would not have been dissuaded from going ahead with the payments. 
I understand the bank only intervened in relation to one payment (though there were several 
interventions in relation to that one payment). I was also not suggesting that payment 3 was 
smaller than payments 1 or 2, but rather it was smaller than payment 9 and was not the proceeds of a loan. And, I do think that a payment made with the proceeds of a loan could 
represent a heightened risk of fraud. Thats because it is a known feature of investment 
scams that victims are encouraged to take out (or use the proceeds of) loans to fund an 
investment. 
In my provisional decision I ought to have said that I dont think Lloyds should have 
intervened any earlier than payment 3 (rather than saying it shouldnt have intervened any 
earlier than it did, which I accept was too late). I apologise for the confusion caused by this. 
However, as already set out, the question I considered was what might have happened had 
the bank intervened on payment 3. Its also arguable whether the bank should have 
intervened on more than one occasion  perhaps payment 3 and then again on payment 9 
(though I certainly dont agree that it should have done so on every payment  that would be 
an onerous obligation). But, for the reasons Ive already set out and those below, I dont 
think any intervention would have made a difference to Mr S decision to go ahead or 
prevented his loss.
Im sorry that Mr S is upset by the suggestion that he misled the bank or had not been 
entirely honest with it. Following his recent submissions, I dont doubt that he did win the 
lottery and Ive never suggested that he didnt have the broad intention to purchase a car. 
But the bank was asking about what the payment he was making was for. It was not being 
paid to the account that had been set up to manage his lottery winnings and it was not being 
paid to a car dealership. Im afraid that it is evident that Mr S did not disclose the true 
circumstances around the payment when he was being asked to do so. Im not persuaded 
that Mr S could have reasonably interpreted the banks questions as being about his ultimate 
intended use of the funds or his original intention for the loan. Instead, it was clear that the 
concern was about the immediate destination of the funds. The admission that Mr S did win 
the lottery and can prove it, only demonstrates to me that he drew on real life events in order 
to add credibility to the actions he was taking and, if asked, would have been able to provide 
evidence of his claims. 
I do not agree that the nature of the banks questioning was inappropriate or hostile when it 
intervened. Its apparent that the purpose of the calls was to try and protect Mr S from 
scams. While the bank did press Mr S, this was only after it had reason to be concerned 
about the answers (or lack of answers) he gave. I do not wish to blame Mr S  its clear that 
he was under the influence of the fraudsters, but I think it was their influence, rather than the 
approach of the bank, which led him to conceal the true destination of the payment. 
For the reasons Ive explained, and because no further submissions have been made about 
the compensation I suggested, my final decision remains unchanged from my provisional 
decision set out above.
My final decision
I instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr S and Ms W £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman