DRN-3869244
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) decision to cancel their 
buildings insurance policy. 
 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr B and Mrs B purchased a property in need of renovation. They took 
out a policy and said they were having £20,000 worth of renovations undertaken. As the 
renovations continued, the estimated costs increased. Mr B and Mrs B told AXA each time 
they had a revised cost. In March 2022, Mr B told AXA the cost was now likely be in the 
region of £200,000.
AXA said as the renovations had exceeded a certain financial limit, it required sight of a 
signed contact between Mr B and Mrs B and their builder. It provided a timeframe for a copy 
of a contract to be provided, but Mr B said there hadnt ever been a contract in place. AXA 
subsequently cancelled the policy. 
Mr B raised a complaint about the cancellation of the policy. He said AXA breached their 
contract as the upper financial limit for renovations wasnt specified in the policy terms. Mr B 
said they wouldnt have taken out this insurance policy had they known what the internal 
parameters were.
 
AXA said it initially offered the policy on the basis the renovations would cost £20,000. As 
the costs increased, AXAs underwriting criteria stated further information was required. This 
was why it asked for a copy of the contact to be provided in order for cover to continue. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr B and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think AXA had acted unfairly. As Mr B 
and Mrs B didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering the comments AXA breached the policy terms. What Mr B 
considers to be a breach of contract is, in my opinion, a change in underwriting criteria 
based on what AXA perceived to be a change in risk as the renovation costs increased. 
Here, when the renovation cost reached a particular cost, AXA has asked for sight of a 
signed contract between Mr B and Mrs B and their builder. 
Its not for this service to decide what is or isnt an acceptable basis for an insurer to offer 
cover. This is decided by an insurer, and the underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive. 
We wouldnt expect an insurer to disclose every element of their underwriting criteria. 
Mr B says the contract entered into was for 12 months. I can see this, but the policy terms 
also set out AXA needs to be notified of any changes. The policy terms say:
Your cover is based on information You provide to Us, as detailed within Your 
Policy Documents. If this is incorrect, incomplete or changes during the policy year, 
You must take steps to tell Us.
Im satisfied these policy terms make it clear any changes to the basis on which the policy 
was taken out need to be shared with AXA. I havent seen anything in the policy terms which 
require AXA to continue to provide cover on the original basis offered after being notified of a 
change in circumstances. 
The increased renovation cost was a change to the basis on which AXA offered cover, as 
set out in the underwriting criteria. This is used by insurers when deciding on what basis to 
offer cover. Ive considered if AXA acted fairly in setting out its requirement that building 
works costing over a certain amount to be supported by a signed contract. Ive reviewed the 
underwriting criteria and I think its important to clarify AXA didnt decline to offer Mr B and 
Mrs B cover solely based on the cost of their renovations. Instead, it asked for evidence the 
renovations were subject to a contract between the consumer and builder. 
I appreciate Mr Bs view there wasnt ever a contract in place with his builders. He hadnt 
been asked about this until the renovation costs reached a particular cost. And they kept 
AXA up to date with the increasing cost of his renovations. 
However, its ultimately for AXA to decide which risks its prepared to offer cover for. AXA 
said when the cost of repairs exceeded a particular financial amount, it required proof of a 
contract in order to continue to offer cover. Im satisfied AXA offered Mr B and Mrs B a fair 
opportunity to provide the information it required to enable the cover to stay in place and set 
out what the consequences were of this not being provided. 
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Mrs B, Im not going to uphold their complaint, or 
require AXA to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman