DRN-1808026
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) provided poor service and caused damage 
to the vehicle he was driving when it was recovered under his breakdown cover. 
All references to UKI include parties acting on its behalf in providing the cover.
What happened
Mr A made a claim on his breakdown cover in January 2020 when the vehicle he was driving 
broke down due to a fuel leak. He says the person who attended on behalf of UKI caused 
damage in the process of recovering it. UKI says the damage was pre-existing and not 
caused during recovery.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint concluding that it was more likely than not the 
damage wasn't caused by UKI during recovery. Because Mr A didnt agree with our 
investigator, this case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has submitted evidence including video footage in support of his complaint. Ive 
reviewed this but I dont think it proves, on balance, damage was caused due to UKIs 
recovery of the vehicle. The angle of the video does not cover the area of damage so its 
impossible to reach any conclusion based on the video alone. The video is short and does 
have some audio between Mr A and the recovery driver. From the audio theres no 
suggestion the recovery driver was rude.
The evidence UKI has submitted includes images taken at the point of recovery along with a 
job sheet outlining damage existing before recovery took place. Damage is noted to several 
areas including the area that Mr A complains about. There are two photos that are relevant 
in my view: one is a clear image of the damage while the vehicle is on the recovery lorry; the 
other photo is a front view of the car before its put on the lorry. In this second photo there's 
an apparent change in the appearance of the bodywork in the area where the damage in 
issue is situated. The photo isnt clear, but it does show a slight variation in appearance, 
which may be because it is damaged. UKIs position is further supported by an engineers 
review of the available information. In the engineers expert opinion, the damage being 
claimed for was present before the recovery. Having considered this very carefully, Im 
satisfied its more likely than not the damage was present before the car was loaded onto the 
recovery lorry.
Mr A says he was pressured into signing the document. He signed it immediately above a 
statement in bold:[UKIs recovery agent] and its operator have caused no damage to my vehicle when being 
transported
I cant say for certain what was discussed between Mr A and the person who attended for 
UKI. If there had been an issue, Im satisfied Mr A could easily have indicated such on the 
job sheet. UKI says where issues arise at the recovery point its agents are instructed to 
contact UKI for advice, but no such contact was made. Ive read the statement from the 
recovery driver and balancing all the information, Im not persuaded Mr A was pressured into 
signing the document or that the recovery driver provided poor service. I think its more likely 
than not Mr A freely signed to confirm the statements and information on the job sheet, 
which included areas of damage. 
Overall, having considered the complaint very carefully, Im not persuaded UKI has done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman