DRN-4050241
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) havent refunded her for the money
she lost in a scam.
In bringing her complaint to this service, Miss S is being represented by solicitors. For ease,
I will refer to Miss S throughout my decision, even where the submissions have been made 
on her behalf.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here.
In summary:
Miss S says she came across an opportunity where she could double her Student 
Finance due to the pandemic via a well-known messaging app. The post was shared 
by an influencer who said for those interested to get in touch. Miss S got in touch with 
the influencer and provided her contact details. 
Miss S told us she then received a call from someone she believed to be from 
Student Finance. She says the callers number came up as the Student Finance 
contact number she had saved in her phone. Unknown to Miss S at the time, she 
was in fact speaking with a fraudster. I understand that Miss S was told shed need to 
send funds back to Student Finance in order for them to double and return money to 
her. 
Following this call, Miss S proceeded to make the following payments to the account 
details provided (table below). She says she was told the payee was the head of the 
department which was why the payments were being made to the account details 
given. Shes also said she was told to put the references shown in the table below  
as these would enable the payments to be identified.
Date Time Method Payee/ 
referenceAmount
9 February 2021 18:33 Mobile banking Payee 1 - Loan £1,000
9 February 2021 18:45 Mobile banking Payee 2  Car 
Loan£1,000
10 February 2021 02:46 Mobile banking Payee 2  Car 
Loan£1,000
10 February 2021 02:50 Mobile banking Payee 2  Car 
Loan£1,000
10 February 2021 22:02 Mobile banking Payee 2  Car 
Loan£1,000
11 February 2021 17:35 Mobile banking Payee 3  
Student Loan£500
Total loss £5,500
When Miss S didnt receive the payment within the timeframe she was told, she says 
she realised shed been the victim of a scam. Shes told us the fraudsters kept 
reassuring her that the money would be received but when it wasnt, she contacted 
her bank.
Miss S reported the scam to Barclays in May 2021.
Barclays have told us it received a call in February 2021, from someone claiming to 
be Miss S, who said they didnt recognise the transactions in question. In this call, the 
bank says the caller who was claiming to be Miss S was told the payments had been 
made using her registered device and IP address. At this point, the caller said theyd 
check with those they lived with and would contact the bank if they wished to take 
things further.
It adds it wasnt until May 2021, until Miss S contacted Barclays back. In this call, it 
says Miss S shared that a family member had impersonated her in the 
February 2021 call, as theyd told her that if she said the transactions werent 
recognised shed receive a refund.
In light of the above, the scam claim wasnt raised until the call on 5 May 2021. At 
this time, Barclays contacted the receiving banks (the accounts used by the 
fraudsters) but unfortunately no funds remained.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code).
This is a voluntary scheme Barclays has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires firms to
reimburse customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP)
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that:
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
I am also mindful that when Miss S made these payments, Barclays should fairly and
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps,
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from
fraud.
Barclays considered that Miss S made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief
that she was making payments for a genuine offer to Student Finance, nor does it think she
did enough to satisfy herself that what shed found was genuine. The bank also considered it
had effective warnings in place at the time.
Unhappy with this, Miss S brought her complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked intothings and she recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She didnt think Miss S had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was making legitimate payments to Student Finance. So,
she thought Barclays had established one of the exceptions under the CRM Code. However,
when looking at Miss Ss previous account activity, she thought Barclays ought to have
intervened when Miss S made the fifth payment. This was on the basis that by this point,
shed made multiple transactions within a short space of time and to new payees. As she
didnt consider the initial four payments to be suspicious, our Investigator said she thought
the bank only needed to provide an effective warning for payments five and six. When
considering the warning Barclays says Miss S wouldve seen, our Investigator didnt find the
warning to be impactful to Miss Ss specific circumstances. So, it followed she didnt think
Barclays had established she shouldnt be reimbursed on the basis that she ignored an
effective warning. Overall, our Investigator recommended the bank refund Miss S 50% of
payments five and six and that it should award interest on this amount (8% simple interest or
account rate if the funds originated from a savings account), from the date payment five and
six were made, up until the date of settlement.
Miss S replied to say she didnt agree with our Investigators view. In brief, Miss S
considered all the payments she made to be unusual and so Barclays should have provided
a warning for all of the payments. Had the bank contacted her about the first payment,
Miss S believed the scam wouldve been prevented.
Our Investigator, having considered Miss S comments sent a further view on the complaint.
In summary, her view remained unchanged. She acknowledged that some of the previous
larger payments out of Miss Ss account were sent to another account in Miss Ss name,
however, she referred to two other payments out of her account which were larger in amount
and went to external accounts. She reiterated that she didnt think the first payments Miss S
sent ought to have triggered with the bank. She maintained that she didnt think the amounts
of the initial payments ought to have made the bank suspicious and so she wouldnt have
expected Barclays to intervene here. But she did think it ought to have intervened when
Miss S made the fifth payment.
Miss S remained unhappy. Barclays also disagreed with our Investigators view. It said it
didnt think the payments were made in such quick succession that it ought to have triggered
the bank to intervene. It considered the payments Miss S made as part of the scam to be
similar to previous account activity.
As Miss S and Barclays disagreed, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, it was passed
to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Miss Ss complaint on 14 March 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Miss Ss complaint in part. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Ive carefully considered Barclays representations about the warnings it gave and whether
Miss S had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were genuine. In brief, the
representations do not persuade me to reach a different view to that of our Investigator. In
particular, Im not currently persuaded Barclays has demonstrated that it can choose not to
reimburse Miss S under the terms of the CRM Code on the basis that she ignored an
effective warning.
Barclays within its submissions to our service has said Miss S wouldve seen the following
warning when making the payments:
Were continuing to increase the protection we offer you, but its also important for you to
protect yourself. Once a transactions gone through, its difficult to recover your money. Wellnever ask you to move your money to a safe account, nor will the police, HMRC or any
trusted organisation.
Stay safe from scams
Have you actually met this person and how well do you know them? Speak to them directly
to verify their details before going ahead.
Payment requests on social media, dating sites and claims of family crisis, can be
fraudulent. Be cautious about transferring money for someone else, especially if youve
received funds unexpectedly.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams.
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey.
Having carefully considered the warning Barclays say Miss S would have seen at the time of
making the payments, I cant safely say the warning it gave was relevant to the type of scam
Miss S fell victim to. I dont think it was impactful enough to affect her decision making in a
manner whereby the likelihood of this scam succeeding was reduced. I recognise Barclays
considers Miss S picked the wrong payment purpose when making the payments, but Im
commenting on the warning it says she did see. The warning Barclays say Miss S saw
speaks about other scams such as safe account and HMRC scams, which was not relevant
to the scam she was falling victim to. It also doesnt touch on telephone spoofing and how
this works.
Overall, I dont currently find Barclays has been able to establish that Miss S should not be
reimbursed on the basis she ignored an effective warning.
Did Miss S have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
In this case, Im persuaded that Barclays has demonstrated that it can choose not to
reimburse Miss S under the terms of the CRM Code because she lacked a reasonable basis
for belief when making the payments. I will now explain why:
Based on what Ive seen and been told, Im not currently persuaded that the way in 
which Miss S came about the opportunity or what she was told about doubling her 
Student Finance was plausible in the circumstances. I say this because, Miss S has 
said the influencer who posted the opportunity on the known messaging app was 
someone she knew as she followed them on another social media platform in relation 
to their profession  as a hairdresser. I think this ought to have given Miss S pause 
for thought  as to how an influencer she followed for a different profession was able 
to advertise an opportunity to double her Student Finance. I currently think this ought 
to have prompted Miss S to proceed more cautiously.
I recognised Miss S told us the call she received was from the number for Student 
Finance that was saved on her phone. I accept that this phone spoofing wouldve 
been an element that added to the believability that she was in contact with Student 
Finance. But I think there were other red flags which she ought fairly and reasonably 
to have recognised/questioned. Miss S thought she was making the payments, which 
would then be returned to her along with the additional amount so that her funds 
were doubled. I think Miss S ought to have questioned why she was being asked to make payments which were to be returned to her in order to receive the additional 
amount. This to me, does not appear consistent with how I would reasonably expect 
the legitimate Student Finance to operate. And in the absence of any plausible 
reasons being given to Miss S, as to why she needed to make payments, before she 
could receive the additional funds into her account, I think this ought to have caused 
her concern.
Miss S explained she was told the payments she was making were being sent to the 
Head of the department. Yet Ive not seen anything which sets out why Miss S 
thought she was having to make these payments to three different payees. And while 
I acknowledge she was told to put the references as Loan and Car Loan so that the 
payments could be identified in the accounts  if the payments were being sent to the 
account for the Head of Department at Student Finance, I think this ought to have 
given Miss S pause for thought. This again doesnt appear consistent with how a 
legitimate company would operate. I dont find the reason given for identifying the 
payments is convincing enough not to question the arrangement or why the 
payments were not being sent to an account for the organisation.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have
been enough to have prevented Miss S from proceeding. But when considering the specific
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Miss S ought reasonably to have taken further
steps to protect herself.
All things considered, I dont currently think Miss S had a reasonable basis for belief (from
the outset) for believing the payments she was making was for a genuine opportunity or that
they were legitimate.
Should Barclays have done anything else to protect Miss S and prevent the fraud
Im mindful that when Miss S made these payments, Barclays should fairly and reasonably
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Our Investigator didnt consider the first four payments Miss S made to be out of character
for her account. However, she thought by the fifth payment, the transactions started to look
out of character. This was on the basis that at the time of the fifth payment there had been
multiple transactions within a relatively short space of time, to several new payees and the
balance on the account started to deplete to almost zero. So, at this point, she thought
Barclays ought to have intervened and she thought it should have suspended the fifth and
sixth payments until it had spoken to Miss S. Had it done so, she thought the scam wouldve
been revealed.
I note both Barclays and Miss S disagree with our Investigators position on this point. As
Ive said above, Barclays doesnt consider the payments Miss S made were unusual or out
of character to the previous account activity, whereas, Miss S thinks all the payments ought
to have appeared suspicious to the bank.
Ive thought carefully about this. Having reviewed the previous account activity, I can see
Miss S had made a payment to a new payee on 8 February 2021 for £1,500. There was also
a payment for £1,000 made in March 2020. Taking this into account, I dont think the initial
three payments ought to have appeared so suspicious to Barclays that it ought to fairly and
reasonably have intervened before allowing the payments to be processed. This said, I
consider the bank ought to have been concerned about the payments Miss S was asking to
make from payment four  not five as identified by our Investigator.Whilst I consider an earlier payment ought to have triggered on the banks fraud systems, my
reasons for reaching this finding is for largely the same reasons as our Investigator. At the
time Miss S asked to make the fourth payment of £1,000, there was a pattern emerging
which was indicative of fraud. Miss S was making payments in reasonably quick succession
and it was the second day of her making several payments to a new payee.
Whilst the banks need to strike a balance between the extent to which it intervenes in
payment to try to prevent fraud and/or financial harm, against the risk of unnecessarily
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions, I think there was enough going on here
by payment four that the bank ought to have got in touch with Miss S. Had it done so, I think
the scam wouldve likely unravelled rather quickly. Miss S doesnt appear to have been given
a cover story and I think the bank more than likely wouldve had concerns once Miss S
shared the platform on which she found the opportunity and what shed been told.
For completeness, Miss S told us she was vulnerable at the time. Id like to assure Miss S
that I have carefully considered the background circumstances she has told us about in
relation to her mental health and financial situation. Ive thought about whether this made her
more vulnerable to the scam she fell victim to. While I recognise that there are aspects of
what Miss S has told us that will have more likely than not enticed her into proceeding with
what the fraudster was offering, Im not persuaded based on what Ive been told Miss S can
be considered as vulnerable under the CRM Code.
Finally, Ive considered whether Barclays did all it could to try and recover the money Miss S
lost, once she had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Barclays did contact
the receiving banks when she raised the matter as a scam in May 2021, but unfortunately no
funds remained. On balance, given the time between Miss S making the payments and her
reporting the scam, I think it is was very unlikely Barclays wouldve been able to successfully 
recover her funds. So I think Barclays has done what could reasonably have been expected
of it to try to recover the money.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint
in part.
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do the following:
Reimburse Miss S 50% of payments four, five and six made as a result of the scam
 Miss S has told us the money originated from her savings account, which came from 
her student loan with Student Finance. In light of this, Barclays should add interest at 
the savings account rate from the date payments four, five and six were made to the 
date the 50% reimbursement is paid to Miss S.
I invited both sides to provide any further arguments or information by 28 March 2023, after 
which point, I said I would issue my final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays replied accepting my provisional findings. Miss S replied with further comments. In summary, but not limited to, Miss S acknowledged 
the previous payment shed made on 8 February 2021, but said the payment referred to in 
March 2020 was a cash withdrawal. She provided her recollections of the process for 
making a cash withdrawal and reiterated that she didnt consider the payments she made as 
part of the scam to be usual when taking into account her previous account activity. Miss S 
also said she knew the person who advertised the opportunity on the well-known messaging 
app. Shes added that she followed this person on other social media platforms and that 
whilst her profession is a hairdresser this didnt mean that it was impossible for them to 
promote an opportunity and that this person vouched for the person they were promoting. 
She also provided further information about her mental health. Miss S has said anxiety and 
depression can result in her not thinking clearly, which she said was the case during the 
scam and, that this combined with her financial situation encouraged her into the opportunity 
and wanting to be financially stable. 
As Barclays have accepted my provision findings, I will focus on addressing Miss Ss further 
comments. 
Id like to assure Miss S that Ive carefully considered the submission she has made. While I 
acknowledge what she has said about one of the payments referred to within the provisional 
decision as being a cash withdrawal, I dont find this changes my position on this point. I can 
see Miss S made a payment to a new payee on 8 February 2021 for £1,500. I accept Miss S 
considers this to be a one-off payment and therefore, she doesnt think the payments she 
made as part of the scam can be considered as usual for her account activity. As I explained 
in my provisional decision, when looking at the previous account activity, such as the 
payment for £1,500, I didnt think the initial three payments ought to have appeared so 
suspicious to Barclays that it ought to fairly and reasonably have intervened before allowing 
the payments to be processed. However, I did think the bank ought to have been concerned 
about the payments Miss S was asking to make from payment four. For the reasons outlined 
above, my position and findings on this aspect remain unchanged. 
Ive also thought carefully about the additional information Miss S has provided about the 
person she says she was friends with who promoted the opportunity over the messaging 
app. I accept Miss Ss comments that just because someones profession is a hairdresser, it 
doesnt mean its impossible for them to promote an opportunity. But when taking the 
individual factors I set out in my provisional findings in the round - together with the 
plausibility of what she was being told  doubling her Student Finance, Im persuaded there 
was enough going on and sufficient red flags that ought fairly and reasonably to have 
caused Miss S concern and led her to have taken further steps to protect herself. 
Miss S has kindly provided more information about her mental health. Having carefully 
considered what Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded Miss S meets the CRM Codes 
definition of vulnerability. In summary, the CRM Code defines vulnerability as circumstances 
where the victim couldnt reasonably have been expected to protect themselves from the 
scam. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the steps Miss S took were sufficient for her to 
have had a reasonable basis for believing she was sending the payment to a legitimate 
person or business or that the payment was for a genuine goods or service. And having 
thought very carefully about it, I also dont find it more likely than not that Miss S was 
vulnerable to the extent that it wouldnt have been reasonable to expect her to have 
protected herself.
I want to emphasise though that this is not to diminish the circumstances she was in at the 
time, or the subsequent impact the scam has had on her. It is simply that I dont find the evidence would justify a finding that Miss S was unable to have taken further steps to protect 
herself here. 
In light of this, I see no reason to depart from the findings and the resolution I proposed in 
my provisional decision as quoted above, and for the further reasons Ive set out here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to do the following:
Reimburse Miss S 50% of payments four, five and six made as a result of the scam.
Miss S has told us the money originated from her savings account, which came from 
her student loan with Student Finance. In light of this, Barclays should add interest at 
the savings account rate from the date payments four, five and six were made to the 
date the 50% reimbursement is paid to Miss S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman