DRN-3550951
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined part of their claim against 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs D have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. In January 2020, Mr and Mrs D booked a family trip for later that year. They 
booked flights and accommodation separately. 
The trip planned for 2020 didnt take place because of restrictions in place in response to 
Covid-19. Mr and Mrs D rearranged the trip for 2021. Shortly before the rearranged 
departure date, Mr and Mrs Ds son tested positive for Covid-19, so they cancelled the 
trip. 
Mr and Mrs D made a claim against their policy in relation to their familys share of the 
unused accommodation costs. UKI paid part of the claim. It didnt pay Mr and Mrs Ds 
daughters part of the claim as it said that she wasnt covered under the policy.  
Mr and Mrs D say that the terms of the policy are unclear and misleading and that UKI 
acted unfairly in paying only part of their claim. They want UKI to pay the remainder of 
their claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs Ds daughter isnt 
covered by the policy as she doesnt meet the definition of a dependent child. She said 
that the policy excludes costs of anyone not insured by the policy, even if Mr and Mrs D 
paid their costs as a gift. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs D said that she paid the 
accommodation costs and her daughter was one of her guests. She said that the cost 
would have been the same if only her and Mr D used the accommodation. Mrs D said 
that the policy terms are only online and not made readily available and she wasnt 
aware that she could upgrade the policy to add a guest. She asked that an ombudsman 
consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.   
Mrs Ds concern about the availability of the policy terms wasnt included in her original 
complaint, so UKI hasnt had an opportunity to respond to it. That means that I cant deal 
with that here. I understand that Mrs D has taken that up with her account provider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Who is covered
This policy provides cover for:
 The account holder.
 The account holders partner.
 Any dependent child of the account holder.
You can extend the cover to include any guests travelling with you on a trip by buying a 
Guest Upgrade.
Dependent child
Any child, including a legally adopted, fostered or step child, of the account holder who 
meets all of the criteria below:
 Is under 18 or under 24 if in full time education, on the start date of the trip.
 Lives with the account holder or their other parent.
 Is not married or in a civil partnership.
Cancelling Your Trip (up to the point of departure)
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you 
have to cancel your trip, including:
 Deposits.
 Commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
 []
Reasons for cancellation
1. Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of any insured person, your 
travelling companion, a close relative, a colleague or anyone outside your home area 
that you had planned to stay with.
[]
You are not covered for
We wont pay for:
[]
10. The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are travelling 
with someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your portion of any costs 
even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint because I dont think that UKI treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. 
Mr and Mrs Ds daughter isnt covered by the policy as she isnt a dependent child, 
as defined by the policy  I understand that shes over 18 and not in full time 
education. So, Mr and Mrs Ds daughter isnt an insured person under the 
cancellation provisions. Mrs D says that she paid for the accommodation and was responsible for her 
familys share of the costs. She says that her daughter was her guest and wasnt 
asked to contribute to the accommodation cost. I accept what Mrs D says but that 
doesnt alter the outcome here. Thats because theres an exclusion in the policy in 
relation to unused costs of anyone not insured under the policy  such as              
Mr and Mrs Ds daughter - even if Mrs D paid her daughters costs as a gift, which 
is what happened here. 
Mr and Mrs D say that the policy terms are unclear. Im afraid I dont agree. I think 
that UKI was entitled to rely on both the policys definition of a dependent child  
and on the exclusion Ive set out above. So, I dont think that UKI treated               
Mr and Mrs D unfairly or unreasonably in paying only part of the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman