DRN-4339707
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim on their home 
insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had home insurance with AXA for a property they own and rent out. In August 
2022 their tenant sadly passed away and they attended the property to find that the garage 
had water ingress. They made a claim on the insurance.
AXA declined the claim as it said the damage to the garage roof had happened over time, 
and because it was poorly fitted, so the claim was excluded from cover. Mr and Mrs L made 
a complaint but AXA didnt uphold it, so they brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said there wasnt enough 
evidence to show that the damage had been caused by a one-off storm event. And AXA had 
provided expert evidence to show it was likely due to a defective roof and had happened 
over time. So she thought it fair AXA declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. They said the damage was likely due to a number of storms over 
the years but as their tenant didnt report the issue to them, they could not have made a 
claim until they did. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls insurance policy states that the buildings section covers:
If any property is damaged by any of the following causes, we will pay you for the value of 
the property at the time it is damaged or the amount of the damage, or at our option reinstate 
or replace the property or any part of it
It then goes on to list all the insured perils that are covered under that section of the policy. 
In order to make a successful claim, Mr and Mrs L need to show that there has been 
damage caused by one of the listed perils. If the damage is caused by anything not listed, or 
if AXA can show an exclusion applies, then the claim wouldnt be covered. 
Mr and Mrs L only discovered the damage after the passing of their tenant at the end of 
2022. But think it was likely caused by bad weather. From looking at the perils listed in the 
standard cover, the only one that could reasonably apply is damage caused by storm. 
However, as insurance policies are there to cover one off, unforeseen events, this cover 
applies where there have been storm conditions on or around a specific date, and these 
alone have cause the damage being claimed for. 
Here, Mr and Mrs L are unable to say when the damage was caused. Which means AXA 
cant assess if there were weather conditions at the time that would constitute a storm. Or if 
that storm was the main cause of the damage. Mr and Mrs L have said themselves that its 
likely it was caused by a number of different weather events over the years. But this wouldnt 
be covered by the storm peril in the policy, as that would only relate to a one-off storm event. 
Therefore its fair and reasonable that AXA declined to cover Mr and Mrs Ls claim under the 
storm peril.
The only other peril the damage could be covered by is the accidental damage extension Mr 
and Mrs L have included in their policy. However this lists the following exclusions:
damage to property caused by or consisting of
a inherent fault or defect, undiscovered defect, gradual deterioration, frost, change in water 
table level, faulty or defective design or materials
b faulty or defective workmanship, operational error or omission by you or any of your 
employees
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and their report stated as follows:
The felt has been missing for a period of time and has been poorly fitted as the felt has not 
been gripped enough onto the OSB allowing the rainwater to ingress over a period of time.
This shows that the opinion of AXAs expert was that the damage was due to both defective 
workmanship and that it had happened over a period of time. Therefore two of the above 
exclusions would fairly apply. 
Based on this, I think AXA has shown that the perils that the damage may be covered under 
both wouldnt apply in the circumstances. And that there would therefore be no cover under 
the policy for the damage. For this reason I find that it has acted fairly and reasonably by 
declining Mr and Mrs Ls claim and I wont ask it to do anything differently.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman