DRN-3862448
The complaint
Mr P complained about the delays he experienced when transferring his account from ITI 
Capital Limited (ITI) after his account was migrated over from a previous business.
What happened
Mr P had an account with a previous firm that had gone into administration and which was 
transferred over to ITI in July 2020. Mr P wanted to transfer his account to a new platform 
provider who I shall refer to as Company B in my decision. Mr P gave his transfer 
instruction to ITI on 17 August 2020.
Mr P experienced delays with the transfer and complained to ITI. He told us it had replied to 
him on 6 January 2021 and offered £225 as settlement for his complaint. But he didnt want 
to accept that as he wasnt given a timescale for the transfer.
In February 2021 Mr P told us his broker had received all of his shareholdings and that in 
March 2021 some of his cash  but not all  had been received.
Mr P told us he had held cash of over £100,000 on account but when he spoke with 
Company B in April 2022 he found that there had been an unexplained drop in the his Euro 
cash balance from €8,369 to €595 before the final transfer  a difference of €7,774. He says 
he found this odd as ITI was only ever a trading platform and he hadnt traded. He thought 
some of the cash may have been used for charges but not for the full €7,774.
In the meantime, ITI had increased its offer to £350 to resolve the complaint which our 
investigator put to Mr P. Mr P wasnt willing to accept this as he says he didnt receive all of 
the cash he should have and had requested a breakdown from ITI to find out what had 
happened.
In the absence of any information from ITI  despite chasing for its file and statement of 
account  our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be upheld.
In her assessment of 29 July 2022, she said;
Because of the lack of evidence, she had investigated the complaint with the 
information she did have and on the balance of probabilities.
ITI hadnt provided anything to show the cash Mr P had received was correct so 
couldnt be sure whether its offer to compensate him for the distress he had suffered 
was correct. So, she upheld the complaint.
To put things right ITI should provide Mr P with a transaction schedule to show the 
amounts it had transferred so Mr P could compare this with the funds he had actually 
received. If there was a shortfall ITI should pay this to Mr P along with 8% simple 
interest from the date he should have received those funds to the date it was actually 
sent to him.
It should pay him £350 for the inconvenience of the four-month delay in the transfer.
Mr P had nothing further to add but said the disappearance of the funds from his account 
had been worrying and frustrating. The missing amount had never been accounted for.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on upholding the complaint but with potentially 
some alterations to the redress, but I asked both parties to give me anything that they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
After doing so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should first say when the evidence or testimony surrounding a complaint is 
incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  which, in other words, means I base my decision on what I think is 
most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
As mentioned above, there is very little information for me to consider and we havent 
been given anything by ITI that would help my consideration of Mr Ps complaint. In 
the absence of that, and after taking in account what Mr P has told us, my provisional 
findings are below but if either party can provide me with anything additional for my 
consideration, they should do so as outlined above.
The cash discrepancy
Mr P told us he gave the transfer instruction for his account on 17 August 2020. But  
Mr P said he had around £100,000 in his account and the funds werent received by 
his new broker until 16 March 2021. And as detailed above, Mr P couldnt reconcile 
his account and thinks there is around €7,774 missing. He needs statements of his 
account in order to understand whether the cash transfer amount is correct, and if it 
is where did those funds go. And if it isnt, it needs to be put right.
ITI needs to provide a full reconciliation of Mr Ps account, including cash (in all 
currencies and any exchange rate details), shares and dividends received. The 
statements should cover the period from when Mr Ps account was transferred by the 
joint administrator of the previous firm to ITI to the date of transfer to Mr Ps new 
broker.
And clearly Mr P has experienced significant delays in the cash being transferred to 
him so I think he should be awarded interest on that cash for the time he has been 
out of pocket. ITIs own guidelines are that cash payment should be made within two 
days of request. Mr P has told us he requested the transfer on 17 august 2020, so  
Mr P should receive interest at a rate of 8% simple from two days after his request, 
so 19 August 2020, to the date the cash sum(s) were transferred to Company B.
And for any sums that were received by ITI after it transferred the cash to Mr Ps new 
broker  dividends or similar  then interest at the same rate should be applied to 
those amounts from two days after receipt by ITI to the date of transfer to      
Company B.
The account transfer
Mr P told us he gave the transfer instruction for his account on 17 August 2020. So, 
his account containing stocks and shares plus cash was to be transferred from ITI to 
Mr Ps chosen broker, Company B.However, Mr P told us Company B didnt receive all of the shareholdings until 
February 2021  six months after his initial request  which is many months longer 
than I would expect to see.
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider 
that went into administration. But I think its likely that the new additional accounts 
and investments will have had an impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new 
customers and increased requests. And it seems evident there were some IT issues.
That being said, its clear Mr P experienced delays and was frustrated during the 
period of transfer and Im sure has been inconvenienced by it all. And no doubt not 
knowing what happened to the cash on his account must have been very worrying. 
The investigator acknowledged this and recommended that Mr P should be awarded 
£350 for the distress and inconvenience Mr P had been caused. ITI has already 
offered this. And I think £350 is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr P.
To put the matter right I said that ITI should pay Mr P £350 for the frustration and 
inconvenience he had been caused, plus 8% simple per year on the cash transferred from 
ITI to Company B plus on any subsequent cash that was transferred. I also said ITI should 
provide Mr P with a full statement and reconciliation of his account covering the period it was 
with ITI. And if it did still hold any cash that should be transferred to Company B plus 8% 
interest as outlined above. 
I made further contact with Mr P as I wanted to reconsider how I could more accurately put 
things right with regard to the 8% simple interest I provisionally thought he should be paid on 
any delayed cash transfer. So, I asked if he had taken any action with that money or had 
intended to. 
In response Mr P said hed referred to his adviser at Company B who said it was possible 
that Mr P would have invested differently if the funds had been received earlier from ITI. But 
he didnt give me any details about how those funds had actually been invested.
And Mr P reiterated that his main priority was with regard to the missing Euro cash balance 
which ITI hadnt responded to his query about and he says €7,774 was still missing. 
ITI didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ITI hasnt given me anything further for me to consider.
As mentioned above, I sought clarification from Mr P about his intentions for the cash sum of 
around £100,000. I wanted to know if he had been waiting for those funds for a specific 
purpose such as reinvesting it or needing it for another purpose as examples and whether 
he had lost out because of the delays. 
In response, Mr P told us he referred to his new broker who said it would be very difficult to 
look back and calculate how much the delay cost me in receiving my cash funds and shares 
from ITI Capital. It is possible that we would have invested differently if wed had the funds 
earlier.I asked Mr P for more information about this and he was subsequently been able to provide 
us with a statement of his account since it has been with Company B. I note from that Mr Ps 
account it was credited with €595.46 and US$11,951.49 on 12 March 2021and £46,589.59 
on 16 March 2021. 
Mr Ps portfolio of shareholdings has remained the same (he said because he was waiting 
for the missing €7,000 to be resolved) but he has made five further purchases  two in    
May 2022 and three in July 2022 totalling just under €30,000. He currently has just under 
£28,000 and US$13,000 in cash. 
Mr P told us he did try to access the cash and shares during the transfer but ITI didnt allow 
him to. He did say he wasnt actively trading  he said he bought shares as an investment  
but possibly would have made some sales and reinvestments depending on valuations etc. 
Mr P confirmed he always had some cash on account. 
I havent anything to show that Mr P was actively trying to make any trades on his portfolio or 
invest his cash during the transfer process but was prevented by doing so because of any 
action caused by ITI. Its clear that Mr P didnt invest his cash upon transfer to his new 
broker so while I cant know exactly what Mr P would have done if he had received his cash 
sooner, Ive not seen any evidence to show that he intended on either selling and reinvesting 
any of his then current holdings or investing the cash that was transferred.
As such I dont think that Mr P is out of pocket by not having access to his cash. I cant see 
that he has lost out financially so I dont think in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint an award of 8% interest on the delays in the funds being transferred to him would 
be right. So, I make no award for interest. 
Mr P has highlighted that his main concern now is about the missing Euros of around €7,000 
from his account. Only €595.46 was received and ITI hasnt addressed this point, the funds 
are simply missing, and Mr P can only surmise that ITI has kept those funds. The last 
evidence Mr P has of the Euro balance on his account is May 2014 when his statement  
from the predecessor business of ITI  shows €8,368.93 was held and he said he hadnt 
made any transactions since then. So clearly, this discrepancy needs to be responded to by 
ITI in order for Mr P to be able to reconcile his account. 
Putting things right
Overall, ITI should pay to Mr P;
£350 for all of the delays as well as the frustration and inconvenience Mr P was 
caused.
ITI should respond to Mr Ps query about the missing Euros as well as provide Mr P 
with a full statement and reconciliation of his account covering the period it was with 
ITI. If it does still hold any cash, that should be transferred immediately to Company 
B. 
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay the sum to Mr P within one month of ITI Capital Limited 
being notified of Mr Ps account of this decision, then ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr P 
simple interest on the outstanding sums at a rate of 8% per year from the date of my 
decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays Mr P the outstanding sums. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put the 
matter right as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman