DRN-2900125
The complaint
Miss C says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as TSB) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Miss C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in late 1996. Miss C paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off 
work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case. 
I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The copy of Miss Cs mortgage application is not very clear. But comparing it to sample 
copies of the form from other sales around the same time, it looks like she was offered a 
choice about whether shed like PPI or not, and chose to take it. She signed the application 
to confirm her choices. Miss C pointed out that the PPI was mentioned on her mortgage 
offer, and I understand why she thought to raise this. But its quite normal for the mortgage 
offer to also mention what optional mortgage-related products the customer chose. Ive not 
seen anything which said the PPI was compulsory, and Ive not seen any wider problems 
with the sales process from the time. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made Miss C 
aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss C, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend it, so to be as fair as possible to Miss C, Ill assess 
things based on the higher standard. That means Lloyds had to check the policy was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Miss C was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Miss Cs work benefits 
and offered her significantly more comprehensive cover. It also meant she could effectively 
protect her savings and use them for other things, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice 
one asset to save another. Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a significant, 
long-term commitment, and if Miss C fell behind on it she couldve lost her home. So it 
seems reasonable that she took out PPI to protect her home and provide peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Miss C about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Miss C chose to take out PPI, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. As I said above, Miss C wasnt affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss C could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out 
the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman