DRN-2114120
The complaint
Mr L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has unreasonably refused his 
critical illness claim, despite evidence that he says shows his circumstances meet the policy 
definition. 
To resolve the complaint, Mr L wants the claim to be paid in full.  
What happened
Mr L took out a critical illness policy with Aviva on 20 May 2002. It offered him £50,000 of 
critical illness benefit for a 15-year term. The policy ended on 20 May 2017.  
In March 2016, Mr L was sadly admitted to hospital after being poorly for over a week with a 
heavy cold that developed into shortness of breath, myalgia and fever. He was suspected as 
suffering with influenza or pneumonia with septic shock. Mr L suffered from respiratory arrest 
and was placed into a medically-induced coma. Mr L spent several weeks in an intensive 
treatment unit (ITU) and had further treatment for septicaemia before recovering gradually.  
After his release from hospital, Mr L underwent successful rehabilitation for mobility and 
issues with dysphonia following a tracheostomy. However, he also began to suffer from 
some cognitive deficits, and sadly these are residual.
As the incident had taken place whilst Mr L was insured, he made a critical illness claim to 
Aviva under the policy definition of coma in October 2017.  
Aviva said it discussed the claim with its Chief Medical Officer, a consultant neurologist, who 
advised that Mr L had suffered a severe respiratory infection and was put in a medically 
induced coma to survive. However, there remained no evidence of permanent neurological 
deficit resulting from the coma. The criteria for payment under the coma definition had 
therefore not been met and the claim was declined.
Mr L appealed the decision. He explained that his wife works in the medical profession and 
she was sure that since he was hypoxic for such a long period he must have suffered some 
mild brain damage. However, Aviva was unwilling to change its view. It said its outcome was 
final and gave Mr L referral rights to this service. 
Later in 2018, Mr L told Aviva he would seek further medical evidence to support his 
assertion that he did have permanent neurological deficit resulting from being placed in a 
medically-induced coma.  
In January 2019, Mr L provided the fresh evidence to Aviva. 
In July 2019, Aviva told Mr L that it still couldnt pay the claim. It thanked Mr L for providing a 
report from Dr D, a Consultant Psychiatrist. But it said the additional information Mr L 
provided was not sufficient evidence that his memory problems are both neurological or tied 
to his coma. It took the view that these could be psychological (post-sepsis PTSD for 
example) or related to the small vessel disease which was highlighted on Mr Ls recent MRI.
Aviva also said that the evidence would have to show that the deficit took place during the 
period Mr L had been insured, and that ended in May 2017. Even if Mr L had a deficit now, 
that didn't mean he had deficit during the life of the policy.
It did accept that there had been an unreasonable delay of the time taken from receipt of the 
new evidence to providing Mr L a second claim outcome. Aviva therefore sent Mr L £250 by 
means of apology for taking more time to reply than it should have.
 
Mr L lodged his complaint with this service. He said he was particularly disappointed that 
Aviva was disregarding neurological testing from two specialists which confirmed he had 
ongoing deficit and which both he and his wife believe meets the policy definition. 
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should succeed. He said he had 
reviewed the evidence carefully, particularly the correspondence from Dr D. However, he 
concluded that he didnt think Mr Ls doctors had provided enough information about his 
neurological deficit to show that it persisted as a result of the coma in 2016. 
Our investigator did believe that Aviva had taken longer than it should have to provide an 
outcome to Mr L. However, he felt the £250 Aviva had paid Mr L was reasonable 
compensation for the delay. 
Mr L supplied a further medical report to our investigator of August 2019, which had been 
compiled by a Consultant Neurologist for the purposes of a separate clinical negligence 
claim. However, Mr L explained it gave relevant assessment and diagnosis of his condition  
which is dysexecutive syndrome with mild cognitive impairment.  
Mr L also explained that he wouldnt expect the attending doctors at the hospital to support 
his claim, because the hospital did not attend to him after his coma. He said his family were 
informed at the time of him being placed in a coma that he would not be the same man he 
was before, should he recover. In his view, this was evidence that patients put in to a 
medically-induced coma suffer permanent brain trauma and neurological deficit as a general 
rule of being in a coma. He contended this was the case as there would be no other reason 
why the hospital would have prepared his family for that outcome. 
He said that though his symptoms are subtle in comparison to being severally brain 
damaged and unable to function, his impairment has still had a significant impact on his 
quality of life, confidence and ability to undertake personal and professional relationships. 
These have only occurred since the coma. Mr L said he took out insurance for a situation 
like this, and Aviva is unreasonably refusing the claim.  
Our investigator asked Aviva to review the new evidence. However, Aviva said it wasnt 
willing to change its decision. It said Mr Ls oxygen levels reduced during the many hours he 
was waiting to be seen in hospital due to respiratory issues. This occurred before he was 
sedated. It therefore concluded that any hypoxia, and therefore any permanent neurological 
deficit, was a result of the infection process and not as a result of Mr L being placed into a 
medically-induced coma. It therefore maintained its position that the criteria had not been 
met for Mr Ls claim.
The investigator also wasnt able to change his view. He agreed that the report suggested 
that Mr Ls deficit is the result of delays to his care whilst in A&E, rather than as a result of 
the coma itself which was what the policy terms required. 
Mr L asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. He made a number of further points:
he disagrees with the conclusion about the causation of his permanent neurological 
deficit;
the further report he had supplied was medico-legal, and therefore concentrated on 
establishing that he had suffered a critical illness;
specifically it was written from a clinical negligence perspective, which was to show 
that delays in his care caused the need for him to be placed into a coma  and this 
could have been avoided;
that does not alter the fact that it was the coma which caused him cognitive 
impairment;
the medical report actually sets out the consultants view of the MRl he had in 
November 2018  she said that there are no visible changes in the images that can 
be attributed to either an acute insult by the influenza or be due to hypoxic-ischemic 
injury;
he therefore believes that her statement does not support the basis of Aviva's 
decision that his neurological deficit is the result of delays in care whilst in A&E or 
prior to admission to the ITU;
she also sets out that it is well recognised that patients have difficulties with problem 
solving and cognitive impairment after critical illness, with the degree of difficulty, 
correlating with the length of ITU stay;
though he was hypoxic at the time of the hospital attendance, the medical report did 
not find evidence of permanent damage from those periods of hypoxia;
it must therefore be the case that the coma caused the deficit, which took time to 
have an impact;
he feels Aviva is doing anything it can to avoid a claim payment, despite him having 
provided evidence to all of its continuing objections, and it has been moving 
goalposts as the claim and complaint have gone along.  
Aviva didnt make any further comments. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to have learned about Mr Ls circumstances, and the position he finds 
himself in now. I know my decision wont be what he has hoped for, but my view is that this 
complaint should not be upheld. Ill set my reasons out for that below. 
For Aviva to pay a claim for critical illness benefit for the listed event of coma, the following 
terms need to be met during the period set out on the policy schedule:
"Critical Illness means the Life Assured has, to the satisfaction of the Companys 
medical adviser, been diagnosed as suffering from one or more of the following and 
is alive more than 28 days after the diagnosis is made:
Coma
A state of unconsciousness with no reaction to external stimuli or internal needs, 
persisting continuously with the use of life support systems for a period of at least 96 
hours and resulting in permanent neurological deficit. Coma secondary to alcohol or 
drug misuse is not covered."There are a number of facets to the above wording that all have to be satisfied in order for a 
claim to be paid. In respect of being placed in a coma (for a period of several weeks and/or 
reported in some of the medical records as 32 days), Mr L met the first part of the policy 
definition and exceeded the time frame set out.  
Where the parties disagree is 1) the existence of permanent neurological deficit in 
accordance with the policy terms and 2) that the deficit resulted from the coma, and not 
some other reason.  
From the first claim assessment, I can understand why Aviva reached the view it did. The 
GP report says Mr L does not have any neurological deficit. The ITU report of March 2018 
also ticks the no box in relation to that question, but it appears this is in error because the 
section asking for further details if the answer was yes is completed, setting out that Mr L 
had critical illness neuromyopathy and poor concentration. However, in the next question, 
the consultant said Mr Ls deficit wasnt permanent.  
Following the first claim outcome, Mr L rightly pointed out that he had not been seen by 
either his GP or the ITU consultant since his discharge and therefore neither were best 
placed to comment on any ongoing deficit he suffers from.  
Mr L therefore sought supporting medical evidence from a consultant psychiatrist. When he 
did so, he explained to Aviva that he had since undergone an MRI. However, he noted how 
the consultant radiologist was unable to say definitively whether the findings on the MRI 
[small vessel disease] related to hypoxia because it is impossible to say whether they were 
present before my influenza and pneumonia or are a result of it.
The consultant psychiatrist, Dr D, set out how the history which you gave to me which was 
corroborated by your wife suggests that you have had some mild cognitive impairment since 
your stay on the intensive care unit and your score on the Addenbrookes cognitive 
examination was slightly below what I might expect in someone of your education and 
employment level.
However, it wasnt until the further report provided by Dr G, Consultant Neurologist, that Mr 
Ls deficit was objectively measured in detail, and confirmed as permanent using the 
previously stated Addenbrookes cognitive criteria (ACE-III). She said Mr L has a 
dysexecutive syndrome with mild cognitive impairment. He demonstrates changes in 
planning, cognitive flexibility, serial ordering/sequencing, as well as behavioural and 
emotional domains. His performance on the ACE-Ill is consistent with minimal cognitive 
impairment. He is disabled by this as it affects his work and social interactions.
It follows that I agree with Mr L when he has shown that he now has permanent neurological 
deficit. Dr G sets out in her report how these impairments are not going to improve. 
However, as Ive set out above the policy wording needs to be met in full. Notwithstanding 
the dispute over the causation of Mr Ls permanent neurological deficit (which Ill discuss 
further in this decision), Ive seen no objective evidence as to the likely timescale of Mr Ls 
permanent neurological deficit. And this does need to be satisfied in order for Aviva to meet 
a claim. 
Aviva is obliged to pay a claim when Mr L is confirmed as suffering from a coma as defined 
in the policy terms, rather than the wider sense of having been in a coma. Put another way, 
a person who was placed into a coma without any permanent neurological deficit would not 
meet the severity required to be a critical illness under Mr Ls policy. Therefore, the 
applicable terms need to be met in full. Those policy terms go further and require Aviva to pay a claim once it receives sufficient 
proof as it may reasonably require of the coma wording  including the deficit. That means 
Mr Ls medical evidence will need to show that he suffered from permanent neurological 
deficit before the policy expired on 20 May 2017.  
I realise that Mr L may not have been able to seek medical expertise until after the event, but 
that of itself is not a barrier to a claim. It is entirely possible to ask an insurer to 
retrospectively assess whether policy wording could have been met during the term of a 
critical illness policy. Similarly, this service is able to make retrospective awards and 
directions in relation to claims where an event satisfying the policy terms has taken place at 
some point in the past. However, a retrospective assessment has to take into account what 
the policy terms require. And as Ive said, Ive not seen clear evidence that Mr L suffered 
from a coma which caused permanent neurological deficit during the policy term.  
I appreciate Mr L has gone to some lengths to try to establish what has gone on, and that he 
has sought medical reports himself. Unfortunately like our investigator, I also am unable to 
conclude that the evidence Mr L has obtained shows that his neurological deficit is 
attributable to the coma, and not (as Aviva says) as a result of the prior infection Mr L 
suffered from.  
Dr Gs conclusion in the latest medical report is:
The significant hypoxia over the admission period, leading to prolonged ITU stay 
and the associated pneumonia, as well as the influenza A, on the balance of 
probabilities, gave rise to the dysexecutive syndrome and memory impairment that 
Mr [L] currently experiences.
I recognise this evidence somewhat counters Avivas view that Mr Ls impairment was 
caused before he was placed into a coma. But it doesnt address specifically whether Mr Ls 
permanent neurological deficit was caused as a result of the coma (and not the reduced 
oxygen levels before Mr L was sedated and intubated). I understand that may be because 
the report was produced for a different legal approach, but it merely explains that Mr L has 
suffered permanent disability. It doesnt address in sufficient detail the likely cause.
Nonetheless, even if I were to accept on balance that the coma was more likely than not to 
have resulted in the deficit (which I believe is not sufficiently clear to date), it is still not 
confirmed whether this deficit occurred during the policy term such that the full wording of 
the coma policy definition has been met.   
Mr L can of course seek further retrospective evidence and present this back to Aviva in the 
first instance if he wishes to do so. Similarly, he would be able to bring a new complaint to 
this service, if the claim is refused on fresh grounds. As it stands, Im unable to direct Aviva 
to change its decision. Based on the information Ive seen to date, it hasnt acted unfairly in 
refusing the claim. 
As an aside, I also consider the amount paid to Mr L for the delay in the second claim 
outcome was appropriate in the circumstances. It was within the sort of range of awards this 
service would make for inconvenience and upset where a claim was unreasonably delayed. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr L and his family, I am unable to uphold the complaint as Aviva 
has fairly refused his critical illness claim. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman