DRN-4238403
The complaint
Miss J complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) has failed to treat her fairly when 
shes tried to make changes to her mortgage that she holds with it.
What happened
Miss J has a mortgage with YBS which was taken out in 2017 as a joint mortgage with her 
ex-partner. The mortgage was initially on a five-year fixed rate which ended on 30 November 
2022.
YBS notified Miss J in August and September 2022 that her fixed rate was due to end. In 
October 2022, Miss J spoke with a mortgage adviser at YBS to discuss doing a Transfer of 
Equity (TOE), removing her ex-partner from the mortgage and taking this into her sole name. 
YBS said this wasnt affordable but booked an appointment for Miss J to discuss a product 
transfer instead. 
YBS spoke with Miss J again in November 2022 and she said her ex-partner would not 
consent to the mortgage being fixed onto a new product. YBS said it could consider the TOE 
if Miss J could demonstrate her affordability in paying the mortgage on the Standard Variable 
Rate (SVR) for six months. Miss J said this would make the mortgage unaffordable in 
comparison to allowing her to move to a new product with the TOE sooner.
On 1 December 2022, the mortgage moved onto the SVR.
In December, following discussions with a mortgage adviser, it was confirmed that Miss J 
had been maintaining the mortgage on her own from 2019. YBS agreed if it could be 
evidenced that the payments were being met by Miss J without regular support from family, it 
could reconsider the TOE application. Miss Js ex-partner gave his consent for the TOE and 
YBS sent a mortgage illustration for the mortgage in Miss Js own name on 16 December 
2022.
YBS later reviewed this application and although was satisfied Miss J had been maintaining 
the payments on the mortgage, it didnt think the TOE was affordable. It referred this to its 
underwriters for review but declined the application. 
YBS did look again at whether it could offer Miss J a product transfer. It said this was 
something it could do and it would revisit the TOE in the future. It sent Miss J a mortgage 
illustration for a two-year fixed rate product at a rate of 5.86%. Miss J initially accepted this, 
but within the cooling off period, let YBS know she was not happy with the rate as shed 
seen better rates online and a new appointment was booked. Following this, a new offer was 
sent for a two-year fixed rate at a rate of 4.9%. Miss J later declined to proceed with this 
offer too and she let YBS know at the end of January 2023 that she was looking to move to 
another provider. 
Miss J complained that YBS treated her unfairly when it said it couldnt move her to a new 
product without the consent of her ex-partner and that it wouldnt agree to the TOE. Had it 
acted fairly she could have selected a rate in October 2022.
YBS said sorry for providing poor customer service previously. It said the initial decision was 
taken that the TOE was not affordable but following the review of the account history and 
Miss Js payments, it agreed to the TOE. It said an appointment would be scheduled for this 
application to be completed and once done, Miss J could agree a fixed product without her 
ex-partner needing to consent or to be notified. To say sorry for the service received falling 
short of the level it expects, it offered Miss J £200 and credited this to her account.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think YBS needed to do anything else to 
put things right. He felt YBS had recognised the failings it made when considering Miss Js 
applications and the service she received. He felt the offer it had made to put things right 
was fair and in line with what wed expect. But it had now allowed Miss J to complete a TOE 
application and ahead of this, was happy to offer a fixed rate without this change. Miss J 
didnt complete the product transfer applications she made and hadnt completed the TOE 
application so the mortgage remained on the SVR, but he didnt think this was because of 
YBSs actions.
Miss J disagreed with our investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Miss J, but Ill explain why I dont think YBS needs to do 
anything else.
It isnt disputed here that YBS made some mistakes when dealing with Miss J and her 
requests to move her mortgage to a new fixed rate product and to complete the TOE. What 
is in question is whether YBS should have realised sooner that it needed to do more to help 
Miss J and if she lost out as a result. 
When YBS first spoke to Miss J about her mortgage and it coming to the end of its product 
term, it explained the consent from the other joint party to the mortgage was required before 
it could agree a product transfer. When a fixed rate product is taken out the mortgage is 
liable to an early repayment charge (ERC) if repaid early. So if Miss J was not able to 
complete a TOE and the property needed to be sold, the ERC could have put Miss J and her 
ex-partner in a worse position. So I dont think YBS did anything wrong when it said it 
needed her ex-partners consent.
After this YBS looked at other options for Miss J to allow her to make changes to her 
mortgage on her own. This included looking at moving the mortgage into her name only with 
a TOE application. This process meant YBS needed to review Miss Js income to determine 
whether the mortgage was affordable. Following this, YBS declined the application as it 
wasnt satisfied it was affordable based on Miss Js income and expenditure. I understand 
the distress this will have caused as Miss J was looking for options that would allow her to 
move her mortgage onto a fixed rate and avoid the uncertainty of the SVR, but I dont think 
YBS acted unfairly when it made the decision at this point. 
But this was reviewed in December to ensure it was acting fairly based on Miss Js 
circumstances and whether it was in her best interest to allow the TOE, even if its normal 
affordability criteria were not met. Miss J gave more information about how she managed the 
mortgage on her own from 2019 and YBS  agreed the TOE application could be completed. 
Her ex-partner provided consent but YBS reviewed the application again and decided it wasnt satisfied, even with the previous payment history, that it was suitable to progress the 
TOE. But it did look at what else it could do to reduce Miss Js mortgage costs in the interim.  
YBS was happy, based on the consent provided by Miss Js ex-partner that the long-term 
intention would be to move the mortgage to Miss Js name only. It offered a fixed rate 
product that Miss J declined after she saw rates online that were lower. She was offered a 
new lower rate after this but this was also declined. 
Following this, a mortgage offer was issued on 28 February 2023 for the TOE after Miss J 
paid the TOE fee and her ex-partner had agreed to be removed. YBS needed the completion 
certificate document from Miss J before this could be completed and this needed to be 
received by 27 August 2023. YBS did not hear from Miss J or her solicitor to provide this and 
as such, the application and offer lapsed in September 2023.
Considering everything, Ive not seen anything to show YBS needs to do anything else with 
this complaint. It has recognised it will have added distress when it didnt look at alternative 
options to its usual process sooner. But I think it did do what it could to support Miss J with 
her requests to move her mortgage to a new rate and to help her move this into her own 
name. 
When Miss J failed to engage with YBS on the applications and offers that had been made, I 
cant say it has done anything wrong when the product was not changed of the TOE not 
completed. And as the rates available in October 2022 were higher than what Miss J was 
offered in January 2023, I cant say she lost out when there was a delay in an offer for a 
product transfer being made. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman