DRN-3261100
The complaint
Mr A complains about Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) for its decision to decline his claim 
and avoid his policy back to inception. He wants Zurich to reinstate his policy, pay his claim 
with interest and pay him compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr A owned a commercial property, which he insured with Zurich. His policy began in 
February 2020. 
In April 2020, Mr As property suffered a fire. Mr A submitted a claim to Zurich. 
Zurich carried out investigations into the claim and discovered that Mr A had previously been 
a director of companies which had become insolvent. Mr A had not disclosed this to Zurich 
previously. 
Zurich considered that Mr A had made a qualifying misrepresentation when he applied for 
his policy, and that it was entitled to decline the claim, and avoid the policy back to inception. 
Zurich considered that Mr As misrepresentation was either deliberate or reckless and so it 
retained his premiums. 
Mr A was not happy with this and complained. He felt that the question asked had been in 
relation to him personally, and he argued that the policy had been purchased through a 
broker. He felt that he had not made a misrepresentation and it was unfair to avoid his policy 
and decline his claim. 
Zurich sent him its final response, maintaining its decision to decline and avoid the policy. 
Mr A was unhappy and contacted us. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. She did not 
recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld. She set out the considerations of the Insurance 
Act 2015 and how these applied to Mr As situation and she concluded that Zurich had acted 
fairly and reasonably. 
Mr A did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He argued that the 
question dd not explicitly include corporate bodies linked to Mr A and so Zurichs question 
ought to be interpreted as only asking about businesses which Mr A had conducted as a 
sole trader. Mr A also provided details of some legal cases which he said supported his 
argument.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr As upset at this decision. It clearly carries with it significant implications for 
getting insurance in the future, and for the costs he has incurred resulting from the fire. 
I do, however, agree with the conclusion of my colleague. 
She has set out clearly the relevant provisions from the Insurance Act 2015, and how these 
apply to the case, and what these mean for Zurichs rights. I do not intend to repeat those 
comments here. 
The crux of the issue is whether a clear question was asked, and whether it ought to have 
been answered differently, in order to allow Zurich to make a fair decision on the risk, and on 
whether it wanted to offer cover to Mr A. 
Having reviewed the question, I consider that it is clear and explicitly applies to Mr A both 
personally and in any business capacity (emphasis added). It then clearly asks about 
insolvency proceedings. 
Mr A, or Mr As agent, accepted the assumptions and confirmed the answer to this question 
as no, when the answer ought to have been yes. I do not think this was a reasonable error. 
Mr A and his agents were responsible for making sure that they provided fulsome and 
accurate information at this stage, and they did not do so. 
Zurich has demonstrated that cover would not have been offered if the accurate information 
had been provided and so, applying the legislation as my colleague has done, I agree that 
Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably. 
I note that Mr A has provided references to other cases, and I have considered these. As my 
colleague pointed out, however, we are not the same as the courts and apply different tests. 
We consider each case on its individual merits and apply a test of fair and reasonable. 
In this case, I am satisfied that Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably, and I do not uphold 
Mr As complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr As complaint and do not ask Zurich 
Insurance PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman