DRN-2675158
The complaint
Ms F has complained about how Astrenska Insurance Limiteds agents dealt with her home
emergency insurance claim. Ive referred to Astrenska throughout this decision for the sake
of ease when referring to their agents.
We had originally set this complaint up against the claims administrator acting for Astrenska
and then against another insurer. But I have checked the policy documents and these show
the insurance company responsible for what happened is Astrenska. 
What happened
I have not gone into great detail in this section, but I have read everything Ms F has said
about what happened and I understand the full sequence of events and timeline.
Ms Fs boiler in her park home stopped working, so she contacted Astrenska to ask for help.
They sent out a plumber who thought the problem was due to a blockage stopping the 
condensate pipe from draining. He said another plumber needed to attend and Astrenska 
arranged this. Astrenska sent out two plumbers the next time. One of them plunged the sink 
in Ms Fs kitchen, as he thought this would clear the blockage that was causing the problem 
with the condensate pipe. He said when he left the boiler was working. However, shortly 
after he left sewage escaped through the waste pipes in to Ms Fs wet room and 
contaminated many items in it that were at or close to floor level. And the boiler soon 
stopped working again.
Ms F complained to Astrenska and they eventually fixed her boiler by replacing a couple of
parts. But this took nearly a month and Ms F was left without heating and hot water for most 
of February. Astrenska also arranged for a cleaning company to clean up the bathroom and 
Ms F has said they broke the shower head.
Ms F was sure the first three plumbers had misdiagnosed the problem with her boiler and
that there was no reason for the second lot of plumbers to unblock the kitchen sink. And she
thought it was this that had led to sewage entering her wet room. She complained to
Astrenska about this, but they wouldnt accept the plumbers theyd sent out had done
anything wrong. And they refused to compensate her for the fact shed been without heating
or for the contaminated items, which Ms F has said she had to throw away. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 March 2021. In this I explained why I considered Ms Fs 
complaint should be upheld and what I thought Astrenska should pay to put things right. I set 
this out in the section headed What Ive provisionally decided  and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems from the reports provided by Astrenska that the problem with her boiler had nothing
to do with the blocked pipes. I say this because Astrenskas engineers eventually replaced a
pressure reducing valve (PRV) and a pressure gauge. And nothing theyve said suggests
there was a problem with a blockage. And  as Ms F has pointed out  I think if thered been
a blockage her boiler pressure would have been too high, whereas I have seen photographs
showing it was too low.
What I can see is that plumbers came out and took action which clearly resulted in sewage
getting into Ms Fs wet room. There was no intervening event, so I think it must have been
what Astrenskas plumbers did initially which caused this. And I agree it flows from a
misdiagnosis of the problem with Ms Fs boiler. As, if the plumbers had realised the problem
was with the PRV, which I think as experts they should have done, they would have had no
need to unblock the sink. I appreciate Ms F appears to have had some problems with the
pipework under her home, but shed not had problems with sewage coming into her wet
room prior to Astrenskas plumbers attending. So, I cant see why shed have had a problem
if they hadnt misdiagnosed the issue with her boiler and taken inappropriate action.
The sewage clearly contaminated a large number of items and Ive seen several
photographs showing this. And Ms F has produced a long list. Also, Miss F has estimated
the cost of replacing these items at over £2,000. Its not clear from the cleaning companys
report whether any of the items could have been salvaged, but it seems likely most of them
couldnt have been, bearing in mind the type of items concerned and the fact theyd been
contaminated with sewage. And Ms F has said the cleaning company told her to dispose of
the items. Unfortunately, weve not been able to get any information from the cleaning
company on this and whether their cleaner somehow broke the shower head in Ms Fs wet
room. Although, it is hard to see how he managed to break the shower head bearing in mind
he was cleaning up the floor. This having been said, Ms F has said how he somehow got
soaked by the shower. So, it seems possible he knocked it during the cleaning process or
decided to use it to get water on the floor to help with cleaning up and damaged the head in
the process.
But  based on the evidence I have I think it is most likely most of the items Ms F has listed
were contaminated by sewage coming into her wet room and could not be salvaged. And
this only happened because of negligence by the plumbers originally appointed by
Astrenska. And I also think it most likely the cleaner Astrenska appointed broke Ms Fs
shower head. Bearing in mind the replacement cost of the items concerned, this means I
think Astrenska should be making a substantial payment to compensate Ms F for this loss.
Obviously, it is hard to know how many of the items shes listed were partly used or what it
would cost to replace them without a more detailed analysis. And I need to come up with an
amount that produces a fair and reasonable outcome. So, I think £1,500 would be fair in the
circumstances, as this should enable Ms F to replace the vast majority of the items, but will
reflect the fact some may have been partly used and the possibility some could have been
salvaged.
I also think Astrenskas failure to diagnose the problem with her boiler as quickly as it should
have done, along with the distress of having sewage come into her home caused Ms F a
great deal of distress and inconvenience. She would always have been without hot water
and heating for a period. And I can see Astrenska did offer to fund some heaters, although
Ms F couldnt afford to pay up front for large ones. However, bearing in mind the issue with
her boiler seems as though it should have been fairly obvious, Ms F shouldnt have been
without heating and hot water for more than a week or so. And she certainly shouldnt have
had sewage enter her wet room. And Ms F has a disability and I can see how this made the
situation even more difficult and distressing for her. So I think this warrants a substantial
payment in compensation. And I think £750 is appropriate.
I gave both parties until 23 March to provide further comments or evidence. 
Ms F responded to say she agreed with what Id provisionally decided. Astrenska responded in detail disagreeing with what Id provisionally decided. They dont 
agree the plumbers they sent out originally misdiagnosed the problem with Miss Fs boiler. 
And they think the action the second lot of plumbers took of unblocking her kitchen waste 
pipe was appropriate in the circumstances. So they dont think they should have to pay Ms F 
compensation for distress and inconvenience or for the items she says were contaminated 
by sewage. Theyve also suggested it was waste water and not sewage that came up in Ms 
Fs wet room. And theyve also challenged the extent of the damage and the replacement 
cost of the items concerned. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I corresponded with Astrenska in detail on the action taken by the plumbers they sent out. 
And, although I have taken into account what theyve said, I still think their plumbers 
misdiagnosed the problem with Ms Fs boiler. Astrenska has argued that it was perfectly 
reasonable of them to conclude there was a blockage which was stopping the condensate 
pipe from draining. And they also think the fact the boiler started working after this shows 
clearing the blockage was the right course of action. But I dont agree. I accept Ms Fs 
testimony that the pressure in her boiler was too low. And this doesnt suggest to me that 
there was a problem with the condensate pipe. And Ms F has very clearly described how the 
plumbers Astrenska sent initially and the second time didnt really check the boiler. And I 
accept her testimony on this, as she has maintained throughout her complaint to Astrenska 
and when she complained to us that the first two sets of plumbers didnt appear to be well 
equipped or properly check what the problem with the boiler really was. And I think if the 
plumbers had carried out a proper test of the boiler theyd have realised the PRV had failed 
and they could then have replaced it. It seems from what Ms F has said that the engineer 
working separately on the damaged flu to her boiler diagnosed this as the problem. So I 
cant see why Astrenskas plumbers couldnt have worked this out. 
If Astrenskas plumbers hadnt misdiagnosed the problem with Ms Fs boiler they wouldnt 
have attempted to remove a blockage by plunging the sink, which Ms F has said wasnt even 
blocked. And it was clearly their attempts to do this which led to movement in the blockages 
in the pipes under Ms Fs home and waste water of some sort coming into her wet room. 
And I still think this, along with the delay the plumbers misdiagnosis caused Ms F warrants a 
payment of £750 in compensation for distress and inconvenience, as set out in my 
provisional decision.
I have noted what Astrenska have said about the extent of the damage to the items in Ms Fs 
wet room. And I can see why they think it was waste water and not sewage that entered it. 
However, the report from the cleaning company says they sanitised, which suggests to me it 
could well have been sewage. And I think it is possible this was the case if there were 
blockages in pipes leading to the soil pipe. Plus, Ms F has said it smelt like sewage. I 
appreciate, the latest update from the cleaning company provided by Astrenska says it 
wasnt sewage.  Nevertheless, it was clearly contaminated water of some sort. And with Ms 
Fs health conditions, I can understand why she was concerned and felt the items in her wet 
room were contaminated. And I cant see any other way Ms Fs shower head could have 
been broken other than by the cleaning company, as I accept her testimony that it was 
working fine before the cleaner went in her wet room and that he came out having somehow 
got wet.  
So I still think it was the misdiagnosis by Astrenskas plumbers which directly led to 
contamination of many items in Ms Fs wet room and the damage to her shower head. 
However, I am willing to accept the extent of the damage and replacement cost is very hard to estimate. But I also have to bear in mind Ms F is a vulnerable consumer with a disability 
and it was not easy for her to work out what items needed replacing. And she has provided a 
very comprehensive list of items. But, Ive now decided that it would only be fair and 
reasonable to make Astrenska pay £750 to cover damaged items, as opposed to £1,500, 
due to the lack of clarity on the extent of the damage and the need to replace everything. 
Putting things right
As set out above, I think Astrenska should pay Ms F a total of £1,500 in compensation. This 
is made up of £750 for distress and inconvenience and £750 for damaged and contaminated 
items. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Ms Fs 
complaint and I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay her £1,500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman