DRN-1684439
The complaint
Mr S complains about administrative errors when he entered int an agreement with 
Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services Limited.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement. There 
was outstanding finance on Mr Ss old car, and he was asked to obtain a settlement figure, 
which he provided.
Around two weeks later, Mr S was contacted by his old finance company who advised him 
that his monthly payment was overdue. Mr S told them the agreement should have been 
settled and made a payment. He then contacted the dealership who said it was sorting it out.
The following month Mr S began making payments under his new finance agreement. 
However, he received another letter from his old finance company advising him that his 
monthly payment was overdue. He made another payment. 
Mr S then complained to Pendragon. He was frustrated that no-one was able to tell him what 
was happening and was under financial strain paying two agreements at the same time. Mr 
S said the situation had impacted on his enjoyment of his new car and he wanted to return it.
Pendragon said it could see that the old finance agreement had been settled late and that Mr 
S had made two further payments. It said the business had reimbursed Mr S for these 
payments and that although things had gone wrong this wasnt sufficient grounds to reject 
the car. Pendragon offered Mr S £130 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
cased to him.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said that although Pendragon could have 
done more to address the situation, he thought the reimbursement of the payments and the 
compensation was a fair resolution to Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed been left out of pocket for 3 months which had caused him 
stress and financial strain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this experience has caused Mr S a huge degree of stress and I understand 
why he felt that he wanted to return his new car. Im only able to recommend rejection of a 
car if it has a fault which renders it of unsatisfactory quality or if there has been a 
misrepresentation of the finance agreement. Neither applies in this case so Im unable to ask 
Pendragon to accept the car back.
Mr Ss complaint relates to an administrative error when he entered int a new finance 
agreement. These errors resulted in him having to pay a further two months instalments 
because the business was slow to settle his old finance agreement.
I can see that Mr Ss old finance agreement was settled in late December 2018, around two 
months after it shouldve been. Pendragon has acknowledged that there was a delay and 
has reimbursed Mr S for the additional payments he was required to make. It has also paid 
compensation.
Based on what Ive seen, I agree that there was delay and that the error caused financial 
detriment to Mr S. I dont underestimate the financial impact that this had on Mr S, because 
he was having to pay for two finance agreements at the same time for two months. I also 
understand how distressing this mustve been. 
In circumstances like this Id expect a business to reimburse any financial loss and pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Looking at what Pendragon has done to 
resolve the complaint, I think it has acted fairly by reimbursing Mr Ss two monthly payments. 
And Im satisfied that the compensation paid for distress and inconvenience is in line with 
what this service would award.
Because of this I wont be asking Pendragon to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman