DRN-3901851
The complaint
Miss N complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly refused to allow her to use a 
solicitor of her own choice in a claim under her legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Miss N made a claim to UKI under her legal expenses insurance policy to pursue an 
employment dispute. She already had a solicitor acting for her, but she says UKI said the 
policy would only cover the costs of a preferred law firm. She says her claim was well 
underway and changing her legal representation was disruptive but, due to the financial 
burden of paying privately, she felt she had no choice. 
A complaint was raised to UKI, but it didnt uphold it. It said the policy only allows freedom to 
choose a solicitor at the point its necessary to issue court proceedings. But Miss N questions 
why she wasnt offered that choice when they became necessary. Shes brought her 
complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator was satisfied that UKI had acted correctly and fairly in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. So she didnt think it needed to do anything to put things right. As 
Miss N disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Miss Ns legal expenses insurance policy say:
Choosing who represents you
If we accept your claim, we will choose a preferred law firm to try to settle the matter 
without having to go to court. If it is necessary to take your claim to court, or if there is 
a conflict of interests, you can choose a law firm to act as the appointed 
representative.
Miss N made her claim to UKI in early 2018. UKI has provided me with a copy of their letter 
dated 16 April 2018 which says:
Your policy provides that we are entitled to conduct your claim through our preferred 
law firm up until the point it becomes necessary to issue legal proceedings. Once 
legal proceedings are issued you may then choose your preferred law firm to act for 
you. 

If you would like to use your legal policy to financially assist with your claim, we can 
arrange for all the necessary documents to be transferred from your current 
representatives to our preferred law firm.

Alternatively, you may continue with your own law firm and pay their costs yourself. If 
you wish us to reconsider the appointment of your own choice of legal representative 
when legal proceedings have been issued, we will be happy to do so. 
I understand a conversation took place over the phone on 3 May 2018, but the call recording 
isnt available. 
With a few exceptions (such as where theres a conflict of interest), policyholders dont 
generally have the freedom to choose their own solicitors until the point where its necessary 
to start proceedings. Im satisfied the policy terms are clear, fair and not misleading about 
when freedom of choice becomes available. 
I appreciate Miss N feels this wasnt made clear in the phone call, and she says she was told 
she couldnt use her own solicitor at any time. But whilst I cant comment on what was said 
on the call, Im satisfied UKIs letter was clear about the policy cover and what options were 
available to Miss N regarding her legal representation. 
Miss N says she was at the point of issuing proceedings when she logged her claim with 
UKI. If that was the case, then she shouldve let UKI know. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that she told it she was at the point of issue. Instead, I can see that she opted to use 
the preferred firm.
Miss N also says UKI shouldve offered her the choice of her own solicitor when it did 
become necessary to issue proceedings. But Im not persuaded that it needed to. Miss N 
agreed to use a preferred firm and when it became necessary to issue her claim in court, 
she wouldve been aware from UKIs letter that she had the option to return to her chosen 
solicitor. It wasnt for UKI to remind her of the options available. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded UKI has done anything wrong or unfair here. So Im 
not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman