DRN-3417337
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the support provided by Lloyds Bank PLC when they agreed a 
payment plan on his credit card account. He says they wrongly reported adverse information 
on his credit file impacting his credit history and were rude to him when he complained about 
this.
What happened
Mr F holds a credit card account with Lloyds. In 2020, Mr F lost his main source of income 
due to the effects of the Global Pandemic. Having approached Lloyds for help, they agreed 
to defer his credit card payments under the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in April 2020. Lloyds agreed payment deferrals between June and 
December 2020.
When the agreed payment deferrals ended In December 2020, Mr F contacted Lloyds again. 
His situation hadnt improved and he was reliant upon government benefits and support to 
cover his day to day expenses and essential bills. But Lloyds werent able to agree a further 
payment deferral, so his call was passed to their collections team to discuss other options.
Lloyds offered Mr F a nil payment plan. This meant Mr F wouldnt have to make any 
repayments while this was in place. But they did say that he could still make any payments 
he could afford during this time. They also told Mr F that any payments he didnt make would 
be reported on his credit file. Mr F didnt want his credit file to be adversely impacted but a nil 
payment plan was ultimately agreed.
Some months later, Mr F discovered that Lloyds had been reporting missed payments and 
arrears on his credit file. He didnt think this was right. So, he complained to Lloyds in June 
2021. During a conversation about his complaint with Lloyds, Mr F says that the Lloyds 
representative was rude and shouted at him. The representative didnt uphold his complaint 
but admitted they hadnt listened to a recording of the original payment plan agreement call. 
Lloyds confirmed their decision in a letter to Mr F.
Mr F wasnt happy with the investigation and outcome of his complaint. He was also not 
happy with how the Lloyds representative had spoken to him during their conversation. So, 
he raised a further complaint with Lloyds. Mr F went on to explain how Lloyds actions had 
impacted him and his credit file. He also wanted Lloyds to provide a recording of his 
conversation with them in December 2020 when the payment plan was agreed.
In Lloyds response to Mr Fs further complaint, they apologised for the service hed received 
during the call in June 2021. They explained that a recording of the December 2020 call 
wasnt available. To resolve matters, they agreed to pay compensation of £100 and to 
remove any late payments reported on his credit file from February to June 2021.
Mr F wasnt happy with Lloyds resolution. He said their actions had resulted in serious 
consequences on his credit file leading to further financial problems. He didnt think the 
compensation offered was enough. He wanted them to either write of the balance he owed 
them or increase the compensation to more accurately reflect the financial impact hed 
suffered.
As Lloyds were unwilling to increase the compensation offered, Mr F decided to refer his 
complaint to this service. Having investigated the circumstances of Mr Fs complaint, our 
adjudicator didnt agree that Lloyds had acted unfairly or unreasonably in response to Mr Fs 
complaint. Mr F didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. He thought Lloyds were directly 
responsible for the damage caused to his credit rating. He also said that recent health 
difficulties had been caused by Lloyds actions.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Fs complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
From what I can establish, Mr F benefited from the maximum term of support available under 
the FCAs guidance, with payment deferrals agreed by Lloyds between June and December 
2020. I also understand that during this period, none of the deferred payments were reported 
on Mr Fs credit file. So, Lloyds appear to have complied with the FCAs guidance here.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty. But 
it was down to their discretion and customers circumstances. Reporting to credit reference 
agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum six months of 
payment deferrals.
At the point Mr F contacted Lloyds again in December 2020, I believe his finances were still 
impacted by a lack of regular earned income. Mr F confirmed he could not keep up with his 
bills and day to day expenses including mortgage payments, credit card bills and utility 
payments. There was possibly some confusion about what he was now eligible for when he 
first called Lloyds in mid-December. But Lloyds records show he ultimately spoke to 
someone within their collections team. Unfortunately, a recording of this call isnt available. 
While Lloyds may record some calls, they are not required to do so.
In situations where support under the FCAs special guidance has been exhausted, Lloyds 
were expected to consider alternative forms of forbearance. The key rules and standard that 
apply are set down in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) Section 7. These 
include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from an unexpected reduction in income.
Lloyds offered a nil payment plan to Mr F. This meant he wouldnt need to make any 
contractual payments during the period agreed but would retain the option to do so if he 
could afford to. Usually, interest and charges are not applied during such a plan. This would benefit Mr F by ensuring his debt didnt continue to rise. But Lloyds would be required to 
report any plan agreed to the credit reference agencies. Further, in the event that Mr F didnt 
make payments in accordance with the credit card terms and conditions, this would also 
need to be reported.
Lloyds file notes suggested Mr F didnt want his credit file impacted by any agreement. It 
also appears Lloyds did explain their reporting obligations and included this in a letter sent to 
Mr F following the call in December 2020. From what Ive found, Mr F did agree to a nil 
payment plan. So, while I appreciate and understand Mr Fs frustration that Lloyds reported 
the situation on his credit file, I cant reasonably say they did anything wrong. They were 
obliged to do that.
Lloyds have agreed that the service Mr F experienced when discussing his complaint fell 
short of what they or Mr F shouldve expected. And it was for this reason that Lloyds upheld 
his subsequent complaint. An initial offer of £100 compensation was rejected by Mr F. So, 
Lloyds increased this to £250. They also agreed to remove late payments reported on his 
credit file between February and June 2021. Mr F doesnt feel this is enough to reflect the 
impact Lloyds actions had upon him.
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Lloyds agree the service experienced by Mr F fell short. I think the 
amount offered feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that Mr F doesnt agree. 
But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise Lloyds for their 
mistakes. Any award is considered based upon the impact Lloydss mistake had upon Mr F. 
And I think Lloydss offer does that here. Mr F wants Lloyds to write off the remaining debt 
he owes. But as Mr F has benefited from the money he borrowed, I dont think it would be 
proportionate or fair to ask Lloyds to do that. 
I appreciate that Mr F may not agree and will be disappointed, but I shant be asking Lloyds 
to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman