DRN-2827978
Complaint
Mr and Mrs M say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. 
Background
Mr and Mrs M took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. The MPPI was in Mr Ms 
sole name and provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided 
not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, I will now explain my reasons.
Mr and Mrs M say they wanted the most affordable option and had tried to decline the 
insurance, but were told they needed to have MPPI to get their mortgage. 
RBS says Mr and Mrs M would have been given a choice about the MPPI and that it would 
have gained their consent before adding it to their mortgage. It has sent us copies of the 
documentation Mr and Mrs M completed at the time they took out the mortgage and the 
MPPI was sold to them. This included the mortgage application forms, along with copies of 
their MPPI application form and direct debit mandates. 
In order to take out MPPI, a separate application form needed to be completed. I can see 
Mr and Mrs M made a number of choices about the cover they wanted - they ticked to 
choose accident, sickness and unemployment cover and for it to cover solely Mr M rather 
than both Mr and Mrs M. I can see on the application form there was also an option to 
confirm they didnt require MPPI, but this was left blank. 
I also havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs M werent given a 
choice about the MPPI. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M agreed to take 
out the MPPI knowing they had a choice. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs M have said about the conversation with the adviser at the 
time of the sale. In order for me to conclude that Mr and Mrs M were told they had to take 
out the PPI by the adviser, I would need to see persuasive evidence to support this. The 
difficultly I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs M and the 
adviser when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the PPI knowing 
they had a choice and I havent seen anything persuasive to suggest Mr and Mrs M were 
pressured by the advisor into taking the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs M have said that RBS recommended the PPI to them. RBS on the other hand, 
has said that it didnt. I dont know what was discussed between Mr and Mrs M and RBS 
when they spoke in the branch. So I have thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs M have 
said, what I know generally about RBS sales of PPI and the available information. Having 
done so, I havent seen enough to suggest that RBS made a detailed assessment of          
Mr and Mrs Ms individual circumstances or tailored a recommendation when it sold           
Mr and Mrs M the policy. So I dont think that it recommended the PPI to them. This means 
RBS didnt have to check if it was right for Mr and Mrs M. But it did have to make sure        
Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr and Mrs M about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr M was eligible for cover and he doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical 
conditions. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for              
Mr and Mrs M at the time of the sale. 
Mr M has told us he would have been entitled to between 6 and 12 months pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work and his job would have come with a redundancy 
package. He has also told us he didnt have any savings, but he said that his wife was 
working and would have contributed. 
Having thought about what Mr M has said about his sick pay, I dont think this means that 
Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have found the policy useful. The PPI would have paid out in addition 
to the sick pay Mr M received from his employer and potentially for longer  for up to 12 
months. It also would have paid out if Mr M was ever made redundant for up to 12 months, 
in addition to any redundancy payment he may have received from his employer.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs M have said about being able to rely on Mrs M to help 
make their repayments, but I dont think this changes anything. Mrs M was the joint 
mortgage holder along with Mr M, so her financial circumstances were assessed along with 
his in order to obtain the mortgage. Because of this, I wouldnt consider her income as 
additional funds in terms of meeting their mortgage repayments and I dont think her income 
would have meant the PPI wasnt useful for Mr M.
So overall, I think Mr and Mrs M could have found the policy useful if Mr M ever fell on hard 
times and I dont think that any better information would have put them off from taking out 
the policy. Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to             
Mr and Mrs M.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
 RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because RBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold the complaint. So The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman