DRN-2283281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly refused to meet a 
claim they made on their home insurance for storm damage to their roof.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K found damage to their roof in March 2019. They contacted AXA, which said it 
would consider the claim and arrange for someone to come and look at the damage.
AXA didnt do that straight away  and by the time it did ask a contractor to look at the roof 
Mr and Mrs K had had it repaired. They explained that the delay had been so long that they 
had to do something  and now they want AXA to reimburse them the cost of the repairs.
AXA said it wouldnt do this because there hadnt been a storm at the relevant time  and it 
couldnt check the damage to see if it was storm damage.
Mr and Mrs K complained. When AXA didnt change its stance they asked us to look at the 
complaint.
Our investigator initially said he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He didnt 
think there was a storm at the relevant time. Hes also since then said he thought the delay 
caused by AXA was somewhat less than Mr and Mrs K recall, and the compensation AXA 
paid to make up for this was appropriate.
Mr and Mrs K still think their claim should be met, so Ive been asked to decide this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this isnt what Mr and Mrs K want to hear, but 
Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
There are two parts to the complaint so Ill deal with them separately.
The claim
For Mr and Mrs K to make a successful claim for storm damage, they have to be able to 
show that there was a storm at the time the damage occurred  or at least only shortly 
before they noticed the damage.
Mr and Mrs K have sent us reports of various named storms that occurred during the 
relevant time period. Unfortunately I cant reach a decision about whether there were storm 
conditions where Mr and Mrs K live based on a generalised description of weather for the 
whole of the UK. Instead Ive looked at the reports from weather stations around the area 
where they live, for the two weeks preceding the reported damage. Ive seen only one or two 
days on which wind speeds/gusts were high enough to meet AXAs description of storm 
force winds (that is over 55 mph). And the reports were from stations about 20 or more miles 
from Mr and Mrs Ks postcode. I can also see that on these occasions stations closer to Mr 
and Mrs Ks postcode show wind speeds beneath 55mph. So Im afraid I cant conclude 
there were storm force winds shortly before their roof was damaged.
Nevertheless, there had been bad weather, so its right that AXA send someone to look at 
and report on the damage. Its usually accepted that an insurer can rely on such a report 
when its deciding if it should meet a claim. Unfortunately the visit took place after the 
damage had been repaired  so there was little opportunity for the contractor to see if the 
damage was the sort wed expect to see from a storm, and there arent any clear photos of 
the damage before repair.
I can see that Mr and Mrs K were told their solar panels had probably lifted, which caused 
the damage. The contractor AXA sent thought that if this had been the cause, there would 
have been some damage to the rafters they were attached to. Those didnt appear to have 
been repaired. He did note that the unrepaired part of the roof was fairly old, and this might 
have contributed to the problem. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think it fair for AXA to rely on both the 
contractors comments and the weather reports when deciding if it should meet the claim.
Delays
AXA has acknowledged it didnt handle this claim as well as it could have. Mr and Mrs K say 
there was a delay of 80 days between them reporting the damage and their roof being 
looked at. And it does seem that this is the case as no-one looked at the roof until the end of 
May. 
However, AXAs representative did contact Mr and Mrs K in the second week of April about 
looking at the roof  by which time the repairs had been done. That means even if the roof 
had been inspected immediately after this there would have been no more to see than there 
was at the end of May.
AXA has said it will pay Mr and Mrs K £200 to make up for the way it handled the claim. 
Based on what Ive seen that seems a fair offer.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman