DRN-3100052
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K have complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim under 
their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K had items stolen from their home. So, they contacted QIC to make a claim. 
QIC declined the claim because it said neither force and violence or deception was used to 
enter the property.
When Mr K and Mrs K complained to QIC, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, 
Mr K and Mrs K contacted this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
deception had been used to gain entry to the property because of how the key was obtained. 
She said QIC should pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy and also pay £150 compensation.
As QIC didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our investigator. 
I will explain why.
As part of this, I should note QIC highlighted a case dealt with by an adjudicator at this 
service several years ago. Im not persuaded that the circumstances of that case and Mr K 
and Mrs Ks claim are the same. We look at each case based on the circumstances and 
evidence relevant to that individual case, which is what Ive done here.
The theft part of the policy booklet says the following:
We will cover loss or damage:
i. caused by theft or attempted theft following forced and violent entry to your home; or
ii. where deception has been used to gain entry to your home.
Im aware that someone has now been prosecuted for the theft. Ive read the information 
provided by the police about what happened:
[The person who committed the theft] entered the property with keys that he acquired from 
the victims daughter as he had driven her to a family bbq in her vehicle so had access to her 
key bunch which contained the victims home address key. The burglary was just in relation 
to [Mr K and Mrs Ks] property and he was given a [prison] sentence  for the burglary. (as 
original)
Based on what the police said, the person who carried out the theft entered Mr K and Mrs 
Ks home using a key. Although the use of a key could potentially be force, it isnt violence. 
So, I agree with QIC that force and violence wasnt used.
So, Ive also thought about whether entry was gained through deception. The police have 
said the person had access to the key because it was on the same key bunch that he used 
to drive Mrs Ks daughters car. Mrs K has said the person told her daughter that he had a 
work matter to attend to and left the barbecue. He then used the key to enter Mrs Ks 
property and to steal items.
Ive thought about this carefully. Although the person who stole the items was given the 
bunch of keys that he then used to gain entry to the house, this was because the car key 
was on the same bunch. From what Ive seen, he only had the keys for the purpose of 
driving the car. He then lied to Mr K and Mrs Ks daughter about why he was leaving the 
barbecue in order to explain his absence, went to Mr K and Mrs Ks house and used a key 
he didnt have consent to use in order to enter the property. Mr K and Mrs K also hadnt 
given permission for the person to enter their home. He was only able to gain access due to 
the lie he told and using a key without consent. 
So, in my view, the person gained access to the house through deception. If deception 
hadnt been used, he wouldnt have been able to steal from Mr K and Mrs Ks home. As a 
result, I require QIC to consider the claim under the theft part of the policy on the basis that 
deception was used to gain entry to the property.
Ive also thought about compensation. The circumstances of the claim itself, understandably, 
seem to have caused Mr K and Mrs K distress. I think that distress was added to by the way 
QIC handled the claim, such as asking Mrs K for photos of her and her children wearing the 
jewellery and, when these were provided, then being told anyone could have put jewellery 
on for photos. I think this was dismissive and didnt show any empathy for the distressing 
position Mr K and Mrs K were in. So, I think QIC should pay Mr K and Mrs K £150 
compensation.
  
Putting things right
QIC must consider the claim under the theft part of the policy on the basis that deception 
was used to gain entry to the property and pay £150 compensation.
 My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC 
Europe Ltd to:
consider the claim under the theft part of the policy on the basis that deception was used 
to gain entry to the property
pay £150 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman