DRN-1340641
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he acquired with finance from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited isnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS.
Mr H experienced issues with water leaking into the car which caused damage to the 
interior. He reported his concerns to the supplying dealer who carried out a water test but 
was unable to replicate the fault.
Mr H remained concerned that there was a defect with the door seals and complained to 
MBFS. 
MBFS arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The inspection found that there 
was no water ingress to the car. Based on the findings of the independent inspection, MBFS 
refused Mr Hs request to reject the car.
In October 2019 the dealer replaced a hose in the bulkhead under warranty. It said that 
rainwater could pool in the bulkhead and that the repair should resolve the issues 
experienced by Mr H.
Mr H refused to collect the car following these repairs. Mr H subsequently sold the car back 
to the dealership but was left with a balance on the agreement of around £5,500 which he 
wants paid to him as compensation.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think a rejection was warranted 
because an appropriate repair had been carried out. But she felt that Mr H had been right to 
pursue his complaint because an issue was eventually identified and repaired. For this 
reason the investigator said MBFS should pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset.
MBFS didnt agree. It said that no fault had been found with the car and that it was allowed 
one opportune ty to repair a fault under the relevant legislation in any event. It also said it 
thought that the repair had been speculative.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a  
brand new car  such as that supplied to Mr H  to be of a very high standard.
Under the CRA 2015, where a  fault occurs within the first 6 months, theres a presumption 
that it was present at the point of supply and its up to the business to put things right. The 
business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If the repair isnt successful, the 
consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
An independent engineers report can help with deciding whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality. In this case, the independent inspection was unable to find a fault with the car and 
found no evidence of water ingress.
Taking all the available information into account, there isnt enough evidence to conclude 
that there was a fault with the car. So, I dont think this is a case where rejection is 
warranted. 
Further, and even if a fault subsequently came to light, the business is allowed one attempt 
at repair under the relevant legislation. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the repair 
wasnt successful so again, I dont think there are grounds to ask MBFS to accept a 
rejection.
Putting things right
Although the inspection found no fault, Im aware that the dealer carried out a repair. So, I 
think that Mr H was justified in pursuing his complaint. 
I appreciate that MBFS has said that this repair was speculative but there isnt any evidence 
to support that and the dealer has confirmed that it repaired a hose which couldve been 
causing the water ingress experienced by Mr H. 
On balance, Im satisfied that there was an issue which has been repaired and I think its fair 
in the circumstances to recognise the trouble and upset caused to Mr H.
Im aware that Mr H didnt collect the car following the repair and has since sold it, leaving a 
balance on the agreement. I dont think its fair to ask MBFs to cover the shortfall because 
theres no evidence that the repair wasnt successful and it was ultimately Mr Hs decision to 
sell the car.
Based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied there was an issue with the car which has been 
successfully repaired. It took a  long time to diagnose and repair the issue and I think Mr H 
should receive compensation for the rouble and upset caused. 
Beyond that, I wont be asking MBFS to cover the shortfall under the agreement because it 
was Mr Hs decision to sell he car after it had been repaired.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must pay compensation of £150 to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman