DRN-4168166
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Covea Insurance plc misled him in relation to the benefit period for 
an unemployment claim he made on a mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
What happened
Following on from an unemployment claim that ended in December 2021, Mr K made a 
further unemployment claim in February 2022. 
On 3 January 2023 Mr K spoke to Covea to ask when the final payment would be. He was 
told that hed received eight out of a possible twelve payments and so the end date was 
potentially April 2023. However, on 6 January 2023 Mr K received notification that the claim 
had been finalised with an end date of 31 December 2022.
Coveas reason for this was that, as Mr K had returned to work for less than 90 days 
between his periods of unemployment, the claim was treated as a continuation of the 
previous claim and so the maximum benefit period of 12 months had been reached at the 
end of December 2022.
Mr K says he knew nothing about the requalification period and that, because he was 
misinformed in the phone call on 3 January 2023, Covea should honour what was said and 
pay out the full 12 months on the latest claim.
Or adjudicator thought that Covea had acted reasonably in assessing the claim, in line with 
the policys terms and conditions. Mr K disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms state that:
You can make a completely new claim as long as you have returned to work for at least 90 
days in a row. Two claims separated by less than 90 days continuous work are treated as 
the same period of claim. You will only be entitled to receive monthly benefit entitlement that 
is left over from the previous period.
Its clear from the above wording that Covea was entitled to treat Mr Ks claim as a 
continuance of his previous unemployment claim. 
Theres no dispute that Mr K was given incorrect information over the phone on 3 January 
2023. The question is whether it would be fair and reasonable to oblige Covea to honour 
what it told him on that occasion.
Based on the available evidence, when Mr K first contacted Covea to make the claim on 22 
February 2022, he was told that it would be treated as a continuation of his previous claim. 
So he should reasonably have been aware that was the case.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr K has said about being badly misled. I agree he 
was given incorrect information. But Im not persuaded that the response to that error is that 
Covea should pay an extra four months of claim, over and above the policy terms and 
conditions. 
The mistake was rectified relatively quickly as a final payment notification was sent out on 6 
January 2023, stating that the maximum benefit had been paid. So it was only for a few days 
that Mr K was under the impression that his claim was continuing. 
I accept that Mr K would have been upset when he found out that the information he had 
been given was incorrect. He says that Covea should take accountability for the error. Covea 
has taken accountability by apologising for the mistake, which I consider to be reasonable 
and proportionate in the circumstances. So, whilst I know it will be disappointing for Mr K, I 
do not require Covea to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman