DRN-3977671
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain they were victims of an investment scam and that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC didnt do enough to protect that from happening or to help them get their money back.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T were looking for investment opportunities and came into contact with someone 
claiming to be an investment broker working for a company Ill refer to as S. S claimed to 
have set up an automated investment platform that would invest in various financial sectors 
without Mr and Mrs T having to manually invest. The broker said they could generate a 2% 
return on all investments, and that there was a high success rate. Mr and Mrs T 
subsequently invested over £55,000, all of which they lost.
Mr and Mrs T paid £5,000 and £25,000 via online transfer from their Barclays account on 3 
March and 10 April 2017, and £2,500 and £22,500 on 9 and 16 August 2017, which they 
paid using their Barclays Visa debit card.
The broker provided Mr and Mrs T with a trading account which appeared genuine and 
professional. The trading account showed slow but steady progress. The broker would call 
them to discuss the performance of the investments.
In July 2017, Mr and Mrs T made a withdrawal of £323.60 following which they made the two 
later payments. They then decided to cease trading so they could use the funds for a deposit 
on a property. But the broker said theyd need to give 60 days notice on or before the 
renewal date, which was 11 April 2019. Mr and Mrs T then discovered a warning on the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website that exposed S as a scam. By 14 August 2018, 
they were unable to access their trading account, so they contacted Barclays.
Barclays accepted theyd been victims of a scam, but it said it couldnt refund any money. It 
also said the receiving banks had confirmed that no funds remained in the accounts. Mr and 
Mrs T complained to Barclays because they felt it had shouldve prevented the payments 
from leaving their account.
Barclays said it was only able to identify the payments theyd made on 3 March and 10 April 
2017. It said the payments had been willingly transferred and indemnities were raised as 
soon as it was made aware, but both beneficiary banks had confirmed that no funds 
remained. It also said the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM), had come into effect on 
23 May 2019, therefore, it wouldnt apply to the two transactions.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied and so they complained to this service, arguing that not 
enough was done to protect them. But our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She didnt think the first transaction was unusual or suspicious because in the six 
months prior, there were a number of transactions of similar value. She accepted the second 
payment should have triggered Barclays fraud systems, but she didnt think this wouldve 
made a difference to Mr and Mrs Ts decision to go ahead with the payment because theyd 
made a successful withdrawal request which would have legitimised S and reassured him 
that it was safe to continue.
My provisional decision
CRM Code
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr and Mrs T said theyd fallen victim 
to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays had said the CRM code didnt apply 
because in this case the disputed took place before the code came into force, and I was 
satisfied thats fair and applies to all of the four bank transfer payments.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholders (Mr and Mrs T).
Barclays didnt consider whether it could raise a chargeback request for the debit card 
transactions. But, as the Visa chargeback rules didnt cover investment trading that took 
place before 14 October 2017, it could only have raised a chargeback claim if Mr and Mrs T 
had written evidence of the broker promising returns which were not received, which they 
didnt have. So, I was satisfied Barclays decision not to raise a Chargeback request in 
respect of the card payments was fair.
Should Barclays refund any money?
I was satisfied all four payments were authorised by Mr and Mrs T. This is because they 
were made using the legitimate security credentials provided to them by Barclays. Mr and 
Mrs T think theyve been disadvantaged because Barclays system didnt include a payee 
name check, but Barclays had explained that at the time of the payments, only the sort code 
and account number needed to be correct, and I was satisfied that was the case.
Mr and Mrs T believe they are entitled to a refund because, even though they authorised the 
payments, they were the victims of a scam and Barclays should have either done more to 
stop that happening or to help get the money back. Banks have various and long-standing 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration was 
whether S was operating a scam as Mr and Mrs T allege.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
I carefully considered this, and I was persuaded that at the relevant time S was operating a 
scam. This is because it wasnt registered with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), yet it 
was providing financial services in the UK, so its likely they were operating a scam. 
However, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the them even though they authorised the payment.
From the evidence I had seen, the money went to a company in respect of which there were 
no warnings with either the FCA or IOSCO. Therefore the extent of what we would expect 
Barclays to have done to protect Mr and Mrs T is restricted to triggers, meaning I need to 
consider whether the transactions were so unusual or suspicious that Barclays ought to have 
intervened to warn Mr and Mrs T when they tried to make the payments. Barclays, along 
with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and be on the lookout 
for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. 
I considered the nature of the each of the payments in the context of whether they were 
unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr and Mrs T normally ran their account. The first 
payment of £5,000 was made via online transfer on 3 March 2017 and I agreed with our 
investigator that it was neither unusual nor suspicious. While I accepted a lot of the 
payments were for day to day expenses, in the six months prior to the first transaction, there 
were a number of transactions out of the account that were of a similar value which, 
regardless of the explanations given for those transactions, meant the payment of £5,000 
didnt stand out as unusual.
However, I agreed the second payment of £25,000 was unusual and that it should have 
triggered a call from Barclays. I said that during this call I would expect Barclays to have 
asked some probing questions in response to which I thought it was likely Mr and Mrs T 
would have explained how theyd come into contact with S and the fact theyd been allowed 
to withdraw a small amount of money from the trading platform.
I would then expect Barclays to have warned Mr and Mrs T about the risks associated with 
the investment and explain that allowing small withdrawals can be a tactic used by 
fraudsters to build confidence. I also said I expected Barclays to discuss with them the 
nature of the checks theyd undertaken and to give some advice on additional due diligence.
I explained our investigator had said she didnt believe a call from Barclays would have 
made a difference to Mr and Mrs Ts decision to go ahead with the second payment because 
there were no warnings about S at that time. But S wasnt licensed by the UKs Gambling 
Commission (which was a requirement for all binary options dealers), I thought it was likely 
they would have decided not to go ahead with the payment because this would have 
indicated something was amiss.
I explained I hadnt seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs T were keen to take risks. They had 
explained theyd relocated to the UK, they were using their pension fund to start a new life 
and they didnt have a history of high-risk investing. So, I concluded that if theyd had any 
inkling this might be a scam, its likely they wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.
Because of this, I thought that Barclays had missed an opportunity to intervene in 
circumstances when to do so would likely have prevented Mr and Mrs Ts loss. 
Consequently, I was minded to direct Barclays to refund the money they lost from 10th April 
2017 onwards.
Developments
Barclays has said I havent detailed the due diligence completed by Mr or Mrs T to check S 
was genuine or the due diligence they completed before making payments to each recipient. 
Barclays has also said theres no evidence that the scam was sophisticated because theres 
no evidence of professional-looking documentation or contacts.
Its also suggested the fact Mr and Mrs T didnt know S wasnt regulated suggested they didnt even undertake basic research or consult with someone about whether the returns 
were too good to be true and that the company was legitimate.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has argued that Mr and Mrs T didnt undertake sufficient due diligence before 
deciding to go ahead with the disputed payments.  It has also said the scam wasnt very 
sophisticated. 
Other than checking that S was regulated, I dont think there was much Mr and Mrs T could 
have done in terms of research that would have uncovered that they were being scammed. 
This is because there were no warnings about S on either the FCA or IOSCO websites, and 
I havent seen any evidence that there were bad reviews which would have been apparent 
from a basic internet search.  
Before investing, Mr and Mrs T researched S online and didnt find anything to suggest it 
wasnt a genuine investment company. But they didnt check the FCA register until they 
became suspicious that S was operating a scam. Other than their pension fund, Mr and Mrs 
T were not experienced investors. They had relocated from outside of the UK and had never 
invested in the UK before, so they didnt know to check the FCA register. S claimed to have 
set up an automated investment platform that would invest in various financial sectors, and 
the broker provided Mr and Mrs T with a trading account which appeared genuine and 
professional. So, Im satisfied this was a sophisticated scam and I dont think Mr and Mrs T 
could reasonably be expected to have realised they were being scammed without some 
effective intervention from Barclays.
Barclays has said Mr and Mrs T should have sought a second opinion from a professional 
concerning the returns theyd been promised, but I dont think its reasonable to expect them 
to have done that, especially as they clearly trusted their broker. Ive also considered the fact 
they were promised a 2% return on their investment and I dont think that, to an 
inexperienced investor, this was too good to be true.
In my provisional decision, Ive explained that I think Barclays should have contacted Mr and 
Mrs T when they tried to make the second payment and that it should have asked questions 
around who they were paying and what it was for. Ive no reason to think they wouldnt have 
disclosed that they were paying an investment company and at this point I would expect 
Barclays to have warned them about the risks involved with investing and to have told them 
about possible ways to check up on the investment company, including checking the FCA 
register. Had it done this I maintain my view that Mr and Mrs T would have realised that S 
wasnt regulated in the UK. They would then, having been advised by Barclays that this was 
a red flag, most likely have decided not to go ahead with the investment because it was 
being funded by their pension and they didnt have an appetite for risk.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs T £50,000. This 
should include a payment of 8% simple interest, per year, from the respective dates of loss 
to the date of settlement.
*If Barclays deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide Mr 
and Mrs T with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman