DRN-3830386
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly 
provided two credit card accounts which he couldnt afford the repayments on.
What happened
Mr G was provided with the following credit cards by Tesco:
Card 1 issued 23/09/2016 credit limit £5,700 (no increase in limit)
Card 2 issued 30/05/2017 credit limit £4,150 (no increase in limit)
He quickly ran up the whole balance of card 1 and reached the limit of card 2 in about 6 
months. He struggled with the repayments and card 2 was terminated in October 2018 and 
card 1 in February 2019. Payment arrangements have now been set up for both cards. 
Mr G made complaints about irresponsible lending to Tesco particularly pointing out that he 
had serious gambling problems. It responded that when Mr G applied it asked for information 
about his income, outgoings and outstanding debts. It didnt verify the income figure 
declared by Mr G. But Tesco carried out credit checks at the time of Mr Gs application for 
both cards and found they were affordable. It said there was no evidence of any gambling 
problems from the checks it did.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that Tesco shouldnt 
have issued either card. If Mr G was to be able to make sustainable monthly payments (at 
5% of the balances rather than the 3% Tesco assessed) on his revolving credit (credit cards 
or other credit accounts) he would have had a negative monthly disposable income.
Tesco didnt agree, pointing out that there are no rules that say the percentage figures 
suggested by the adjudicator should be used in assessing affordability. It further said that it 
had made over generous allowances for Mr Gs mortgage payments in the assessment for 
both cards. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Tesco ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Gs indebtedness in 
a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
In reviewing Tescos evidence of its assessments, Ive noted that whilst it gives overall 
figures for total balances between loans and revolving accounts, these are not broken down. 
And it hasnt shown us the credit report or summary on which those figures are based. 
Similarly it hasnt broken down fully its assessment of Mr Gs income and expenditure. 
Despite it saying its assessments were over generous in its allowance for Mr Gs mortgage, I 
can only rely on the actual figures it used to calculate his disposable income.
card 1
According to Tescos spreadsheet Mr G had loan balances totalling nearly £22,000 and 
revolving credit balances totalling £14,797. I concur with the adjudicator that a 5% 
repayment figure for the revolving credit balances should be allowed rather than 3%. This 
allows for the cards to be paid off within a reasonable time. For example the minimum 
monthly repayment due on this card was 1% of the balance plus any interest and other 
charges. Mr G ran up the whole balance on the card almost immediately. I calculate that that 
would have taken nearly 8 years to repay assuming he incurred no further credit.
Tesco assessed that Mr G would have had a considerable £181 monthly disposable 
income. But Tescos own calculations add up to just £38 which I think would be quite 
insufficient.
Using the 5% figure Ive mentioned Mr G would have had a negative disposable income. 
And Tescos calculations dont appear to have taken into account that Mr G had an overdraft 
of £2,284 which was rising, and should have shown on any credit assessment.
Bearing all that in mind I dont think that this card was affordable to Mr G and that Tesco 
didnt make a fair lending decision.
card 2
This card was issued within 8 months of the first card. Yet Mr G had already spent up to the 
limit on the first card. Moreover I note that he went over limit on that card and missed a 
payment. While Tesco says a missed payment is not a reason to decline to provide further 
card, that might be the case if it was a card from a different provider. But with Tescos 
knowledge of the way the first card had been maintained I think it was certainly something it 
should have taken into account.
Mr G had nearly exactly the same outstanding loan balances as at the time of applying for 
card 1, meaning he hadnt been able to reduce them at all. His revolving balances had 
increased to £18,148, presumably accounted for by his use of card 1. Tesco calculated that 
Mr G would have had a monthly disposable income of £72, though I calculate this to be 
£135.
But this still didnt take account of Mr Gs overdraft which by now had risen to over £4,300. 
Its certainly arguable that if the credit report had shown that increasing figure Tesco should 
have considered obtaining further information like looking at his bank account. If it had done 
so, it would have seen that Mr G had spent considerable sums on gambling.
Even without obtaining further information, I dont think this card was shown to be affordable, 
bearing in mind that Mr G would have had a negative disposable income on Tescos calculations when allowing for payments towards his overdraft and the new card. I also take 
into account that he had already used up most of the credit limit on the first card and missed 
a payment. I dont think that Tesco has shown this card to be affordable. So it didnt make a 
fair lending decision.
Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco ought to have opened either account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreements. But I think Mr G should 
pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, Tesco should:
Rework the accounts removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr G along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information regarding both accounts from 
Mr Gs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr G for the remaining amount. Once Mr G has cleared the 
balance(s), any adverse information in relation to the accounts should be removed from its 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Tesco to provide the remedy set out under Putting things 
right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman