DRN-3841893
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund the money it 
debited from his account. 
What happened
In May 2020, just over £36,500 was deposited into Mr Ts account. The payments came from 
Mr Ts ex-partners account, who Ill refer to as P. Mr T says the money really belongs to him 
and that he had an agreement with P that she would keep it on his behalf. Mr T has provided 
copies of his bank statements to show he originally sent this money to P.
Mr T has told us that P reported she had been the victim of fraud and alleged the money was 
transferred to Mr T without her authorisation. Mr T does not dispute that he logged into Ps 
online banking and made the payments. He says that she was aware of, and agreed to, the 
payments being made at the time. Mr T says P made a malicious allegation and raised a 
fraud dispute which resulted in his Halifax account being unfairly blocked. 
As part of its investigation, Halifax contacted Mr T to ask him about the situation. The bank 
ultimately returned the funds back to source. Mr T complained. In its final response letter, 
Halifax said that it had sent the funds back as Mr T couldnt provide any proof that he was 
entitled to them. 
Mr T complained to us. He wanted the money back and significant compensation for the 
distress he says the situation caused him.  
Our Investigator looked into the matter but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. He 
said that Halifax had acted fairly because Mr T couldnt provide evidence to support his claim 
that P would repay the money. He thought Halifax had followed its internal processes and 
procedures appropriately and in the manner he would expect them to for all customers. 
Mr T disagreed. He pointed out that P did not report these transactions as fraud for over a 
month. He suggested that P had reported him to the Police to get him out of the house they 
had shared. Mr T said he had not been treated fairly and that no one had listened to his side. 
He wanted us to ask P how she came to have the disputed funds and an explanation as to 
why the transfers from his account to Ps account had been okay but the payments from Ps 
account were not. He felt ignored and wanted justice. As no agreement could be reached, 
the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Having done so, I consider that Halifax dealt with the matter appropriately. Im sorry to have 
to disappoint Mr T, but I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Halifax to refund the 
money in dispute to him. I will explain why.
Should Halifax have blocked Mr Ts account? 
Halifax has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities it must meet when providing 
account services to customers. To fulfil these obligations, the bank may need to review 
activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for further information. Halifax is entitled 
and obliged to carry out such checks. The terms of Mr Ts account also permit Halifax to 
review his account and ask him for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Halifax to block Mr Ts account. Halifax had been told that Mr Ts account had received 
over £36,500 fraudulently so I can understand why the bank wanted to investigate the 
situation further. Im satisfied that in doing so Halifax was complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. What Halifax did is in line with what most banks would do in the same 
situation. Ive not seen any evidence to show any discrimination on the part of Halifax. 
This is Mr Ts main bank account and hes explained that he couldnt access it for about a 
week, so I can appreciate that he was caused some inconvenience when Halifax blocked the 
account and asked him to provide further information. But I cant say that Halifax did 
anything wrong and treated Mr T unfairly when it took this action. This means I am unable to 
award Mr T any compensation for not being able to access his account since I dont find the 
bank acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.  
Should Halifax have returned the money to source? 
The crux of Mr Ts complaint is that Halifax has taken money he considers rightfully belongs 
to him out of his account. Before debiting Mr Ts account, Halifax contacted him to find out 
more about the payments. It concluded that Mr T didnt have sufficient evidence to show he 
was entitled to the funds and returned them back to the originating account. 
I can see why Mr T thinks the situation he finds himself in isnt very fair. His position is that 
this money is rightfully his and he has provided evidence to show him transferring the funds 
from his account to his ex-partners account. The difficulty I have is that I do not know on 
what terms the money was sent to Ps account. Mr T has said the money was not a gift, but 
there is no evidence of any arrangement between Mr T and P that this money was to be 
repaid. I can understand that Mr T may not have recorded any such arrangement in writing 
because it was made at a time when the relationship between him and his ex-partner was in 
a better place. But without any written terms, it is difficult for Mr T to be able to prove that his 
position is a fair representation of what may have been agreed. 
It is important I am clear that I am not able to say who the legal owner of this money should 
be. The true ownership of funds is a matter for the courts. In my role, I can only make a 
determination about the actions of Halifax. Halifax made a decision to return the funds back 
to the originating account because it was not presented with sufficient evidence to be able to 
safely conclude that Mr T was entitled to it. From what I have seen, I think it had a sufficient 
basis to fairly make that judgment call. In reaching this conclusion, I am especially mindful 
that Mr T has no formal paperwork to support the agreement he says he made with P and 
that he does not dispute that he logged into Ps online banking and made the payments 
himself. By returning the funds to source, Halifax was not making a determination that P was 
entitled to the money over Mr T. It was making the determination that it was required to 
return the funds back to the account they had come from. I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr T. But I can only make an award against a bank if that 
bank has done something wrong which has led to a loss. For the reasons Ive explained, 
I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably by sending the money back to its source. I dont 
consider that Halifax did anything wrong by blocking Mr Ts account and Ive not seen 
anything that makes me think the bank treated Mr T unfairly. It follows that I cant fairly 
require Halifax to pay Mr T this money or the compensation that he seeks. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman