DRN-3638936
The complaint
Mr F used his Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) credit card to acquire tickets in 
August 2021, for travel by a relative on specified dates in September 2021. Because Mr Fs 
relative was not medically fit to travel, she was unable to use the tickets, and she cancelled 
them. Mr F complains that he has been unable either to change the ticket dates, or to obtain 
a full refund from the travel agent.
What happened
Mr Fs relative contacted the travel agent by email, three days before travel was scheduled 
to begin (in September 2021). It replied saying that, according to its booking policy, the 
tickets were refundable:
Before travel was scheduled to begin, with a fee equivalent to 41% of the amount 
paid for them
Or after travel was scheduled to begin, with a fee equivalent to 58% of the amount 
paid
Mr Fs relative emailed the agent on the day before travel to confirm cancellation.  
Mr Fs understanding of the booking policy was that it permitted him to obtain a full refund, 
which he asked the travel agent to make. The agent declined this request  so Mr F 
complained to Halifax in October 2021. 
Mr F thought that the agent was applying the wrong terms and conditions. He also told 
Halifax that he had submitted a change of dates request.
Halifax discussed Mr Fs complaint with him. The relevant terms and conditions appeared to 
say that a refund was possible if flexible tickets had been acquired. It also appeared that no 
evidence had been made available to show that the tickets acquired were flexible (or that 
they were not flexible). 
Halifax temporarily removed from Mr Fs credit card account the transaction through which 
he acquired the tickets, and it used the credit cards chargeback scheme in January 2022 to 
challenge this transaction, saying:
It had contacted the travel agent in November 2021  the agent told it that change of 
dates should have been available at the cost of an additional fee
Mr F had previously been in contact with the travel agent, to try to change the travel 
ticket dates, but the agent had refused to help him
A full refund should be provided, because the agents terms and conditions had not 
been followed correctly
The agent rejected Halifaxs challenge and responded, saying:
After the tickets were successfully acquired, cancellation charges and refund policies 
were shown in the booking confirmation email that it sent to Mr F
According to the relevant booking policy, Mr F was required to pay a cancellation 
penalty equivalent to 58% of the amount paid for the tickets
A chargeback equivalent to 42% of the amount paid would be acceptable, but it could 
not accept a chargeback of the full amount paid
Halifax emailed Mr F in February 2022, saying: 
A full refund was not acceptable to the agent
If Mr F wanted it to challenge this transaction again, he would need to provide 
evidence that the tickets acquired were flexible, and/or that cancellation of the tickets 
was requested within the time period required by the relevant terms and conditions
Alternatively, Mr F was asked to advise whether he wished to accept the 42% 
chargeback offered by the agent
Mr F was asked to reply by email within 14 days  if no reply was received within this 
time period, then it would assume that the matter had been resolved 
 
Mr F did not reply to Halifax within the requested time period. Halifax then reinstated the 
transaction in his account and undertook no further chargeback action. 
Mr Fs next contact with Halifax was in April 2022, when he phoned it. He also referred his 
complaint to us. He told us that he did not open Halifaxs email because he thought it was 
fraudulent. 
Halifax wrote to Mr F later in April 2022, saying that it had attempted to have the transaction 
(through which he had acquired the tickets) withdrawn by the travel agent. But, because Mr 
F had not replied to its February 2022 email to him, it was unable to take further chargeback 
action. In these circumstances, the appropriate action was to reinstate the transaction in his 
account. 
Halifax also said that it had considered challenging this transaction via Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. But this legislation refers specifically to goods or services 
acquired in an agreement involving only a Debtor, a Creditor, and a Supplier. Mr Fs ticket 
acquisition involved himself (Debtor), Halifax (Creditor), a travel supplier and a substantive 
intermediary (the travel agent). So, Halifax decided that the intermediarys involvement 
meant Section 75 did not apply. 
Halifax concluded that its decisions had been correct, and that it had not done anything 
wrong.
Our investigator did not think that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld:
She felt that Halifax handled Mr Fs chargeback fairly
She also felt that Halifax were correct to decide that, in the circumstances, Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act did not apply
Mr F disagreed with our investigator, and so this complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I sympathise with Mr F. There are some unsatisfactory elements in this case, about which Mr 
F could have a legitimate grievance.  But these elements relate to the travel agent, and his 
complaint is against Halifax. 
Mr F and Halifax appear to have jointly held the view that, if his tickets were flexible, then a 
full refund should have been made.  But I have seen no evidence that confirms either that 
the tickets were flexible, or that they were not flexible. So, I am unable to reach a conclusion 
on this matter.
Halifax told us that, in November 2021, the agent said its booking policies (part of its terms 
and conditions) for the tickets acquired by Mr F did not permit full refunds for cancellations 
made by the traveller. Instead, the policies allowed cancellation penalties to be charged, 
which were at one level if the traveller cancelled before travel should have begun, and at a 
higher level if the traveller cancelled after travel should have begun. But this did mean that 
partial refunds were possible, and the agent provided figures from which the appropriate 
before and after chargebacks could be calculated. 
The agent also said that change of dates should have been available at the cost of an 
additional fee.
When the agent responded to Halifaxs January 2022 chargeback challenge, it said that it 
would accept a partial refund chargeback (which appeared roundly to be at the after level). 
But Mr F provided to us evidence of emails between his relative and the travel agent, 
showing that the tickets were cancelled before travel.  
Halifax emailed Mr F in February 2022 asking, among other things, whether he wished to 
accept the partial refund chargeback offered. Mr F did not reply to this email, and this matter 
(including whether it would be possible to change dates for an additional charge) does not 
appear to have been resolved.
But, in my view, Halifax were entitled to assume that this matter had been resolved, when he 
did not reply. This is because it was quite possible, from Halifaxs perspective, that Mr F had 
made direct contact again with the agent and agreed some mutually acceptable settlement. 
I also agree with Halifax that Section 75 did not apply in the circumstances of Mr Fs 
complaint, for the reasons set out above. So, I find that Halifax did not act incorrectly  which 
is why I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman