DRN-3773183
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about delays in Sabre Insurance Company Limiteds (Sabre) 
handling of their claim, the provision of a hire vehicle and the settlement value offered under 
their commercial motor insurance policy. 
I will refer to Mr W throughout my decision for ease of reading. 
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident in September 2021. He reported this to Sabre, and it 
proceeded to handle the claim. 
Sabre concluded Mr Ws vehicle was beyond economical repair and offered £3,500 as a 
settlement payment. Mr W says he wasnt provided with a hire car during the handling of his 
claim and there were a number of delays. He didnt think the settlement offer reflected the 
cost of replacing his vehicle and refers to adverts where similar vehicles are for sale at a 
higher price. 
Sabre says Mr Ws policy doesnt provide for a hire vehicle in these circumstances. It says it 
obtained valuations from two independent engineers and offered the highest value to settle 
Mr Ws claim. Sabre acknowledges a delay in its garage responding to Mr Ws email 
containing photos of the damage to his vehicle. It says unavoidable staff shortages were to 
blame but it accepts that communication shouldve been better.
Sabre offered Mr W £35 compensation for the delay it accepted its agent had caused in the 
handling of his claim.  
Mr W didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He says Sabre acted reasonably when declaring the vehicle 
beyond economical repair. He thought the method used to value the vehicle was fair by 
using two independent engineers. Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws policy provided a hire 
car. And he says the compensation for the claim handling delay was reasonable. 
Mr W disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Settlement payment
Firstly, I have considered Mr Ws complaint about the settlement payment he was offered. 
Ive read his policy terms to understand what is expected to happen here. The terms say:
Section A Loss or Damage to the Insured Vehicle 
Under this section we will:
arrange and pay for the recovery and protection of your vehicle and remove it to a 
place of safe storage if you contact the claims helpline. Should you choose to 
arrange your own recovery then we will pay the reasonable costs towards this 
service.
have the option to settle the claim by repair or replacement of your vehicle or paying 
in cash the amount of the loss or damage. The maximum amount payable will be the 
market value or declared value, whichever is the lower.
pay the reasonable costs of moving your vehicle to the nearest repairer and returning 
it after repair to your address in Great Britain.
Ive seen the engineers report that provides a detailed account of the damage to Mr Ws 
vehicle. The cost of repairs is in excess of £6,000. Given the valuations obtained for his 
vehicle were closer to £4,000, I think the decision to categorise it as a total loss was 
reasonable. This is in line with the policy terms. 
The terms say the most the policy will pay out is the market value of the vehicle. Ive thought 
about how Sabre arrived at its settlement offer and whether this was fair.   
Our service doesnt provide valuations for vehicles, but we do look to see whether the 
approach the insurer has taken when making its offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the main 
motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides 
are particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. 
I can see that Sabre employs the same approach to valuing vehicles by using the industry 
trade guides. But in this case because of the age of Mr Ws vehicle, none of the main trade 
guides were able to provide a valuation. We checked the main trade guides and also found 
this to be the case. As no valuation could be obtained in this way, I think Sabres approach 
of having an engineer value the vehicle was reasonable. 
Ive considered the engineer reports Sabre supplied. I can see that Mr Ws car was reported 
to be in a below average condition and that it had pre-existing damage. The first engineer 
valued the vehicle at £3,845 but deducted £900 for the pre-existing damage. After Mr W 
raised concerns, another valuation was arranged. This time the vehicle was valued at £4,000 
with the engineer deducting £500 for the existing damage. 
I note Mr Ws comments that this was a working vehicle. He says the dented rear of the 
vehicle didnt hinder its use and he wasnt concerned about having it repaired. I can 
understand Mr Ws point of view. However, the policy provides the market value of the 
vehicle in the event of a total loss. The cost of repairs for the pre-existing damage impacts 
on the market value so I think it was reasonable to make this deduction.
Ive considered the adverts Mr W provided showing similar vehicles for sale. These are 
advertised for sale prices, so its not known what these vehicles actually sold for. The price a 
vehicle is sold for is generally accepted to be less than the price the seller advertises it at. I 
also note Sabres comments that these vehicles are in a better condition than Mr Ws with 
lower mileage. Both also have the rear canopy in place. They are registered in the same year as Mr Ws car. One is advertised for £4,150 with slightly less mileage. And one at 
£6,995 with much lower mileage. 
 
Sabre also provided some for sale adverts for the same model as Mr Ws vehicle. Two are 
the same year with higher mileage for sale at £2,100 and £2,450. An older vehicle with 
higher mileage is also shown for £2,750. 
Ive looked at this information in detail. The vehicles advertised at a higher price are in a 
better condition with lower mileage. The lower priced vehicles have higher mileage. I dont 
think this shows Sabres valuation, based on its expert valuers opinion is unfair. 
I note Mr Ws queried the qualifications of the engineer who valued his vehicle. We raised 
this point with Sabre. It responded with the qualifications and experience for the engineer it 
used. I can see from its response that the engineer has over 40 years experience as an 
independent assessor, with a number of professional qualifications and membership of 
industry bodies. From this I think Sabre has reasonably shown that its engineer is suitably 
qualified to provide an accurate valuation. 
Having considered this, I dont think Sabre acted unfairly in how it obtained a market 
valuation for Mr Ws vehicle. So, I wont be asking it to increase its offer. 
Delays
Turning to Mr Ws complaint about delays in the claim handling. I can see he first reported 
his claim in the second half of September 2021. Mr W told Sabre he would be using his own 
repairer. Around three weeks later he confirmed he wanted Sabres repairer to carry out the 
work. I understand this is because he wouldnt be provided with a replacement vehicle with 
towing capabilities. Sabre says it advised Mr W his policy didnt provide for a replacement 
vehicle either. However, Mr W confirmed he wanted to proceed with Sabres repairer. 
Sabres repairer was unable to contact Mr W by phone over the next five days and so 
emailed him regarding the collection of his vehicle. Mr W responded and advised he wanted 
a courtesy vehicle. The repairer responded to say no vehicle was available at that time. Mr 
W then sent photos of his damaged vehicle to the repairer. However, this wasnt responded 
to for around ten days. Mr W chased Sabre by email, and it contacted the repairer. The 
vehicle wasnt able to be assessed on the photos alone. A physical assessment was then 
arranged for a few days later. 
Sabre refers to its repairer having a staffing issue due to Covid-19 infections, which caused 
the delay. But it concedes that at a minimum, communication shouldve been better. 
I can see Sabre emailed Mr W on 12 November 2021 to confirm his vehicle was a total loss. 
From registering the claim to confirming the total loss took close to seven weeks. For the first 
three weeks Mr W was intending using his chosen repairers. Contact by phone was 
attempted with Mr W by Sabres repairer without success, which accounts for a further five 
days. The repairer is responsible for the delay in responding to the emailed photos Mr W 
sent. After this the vehicle was collected, assessed and the outcome communicated to Mr W 
in a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr W disputed the valuation. I think it was fair that Sabre arranged a further valuation from 
another engineer. The valuations were similar. The difference being a reduced deduction for 
the pre-existing damage. Although this resulted in a higher settlement payment, I dont think 
Sabre behaved unfairly here. I think its reasonable that Sabre apologised for the delay in its repairer responding to Mr W, 
which delayed the assessment of his vehicle. I also think it was reasonable to offer some 
compensation for this delay. In the circumstances described I think Sabre responded fairly.
Courtesy car     
Mr W wasnt provided with a replacement vehicle during the claim. I can understand that it 
must have created difficulties for Mr W to be without this vehicle whilst his claim was being 
dealt with. 
Ive read his policy terms to understand if a replacement vehicle shouldve been provided. I 
cant see that this is a benefit provided by Mr Ws cover. I note this is confirmed by Sabre in 
its complaint response. 
I understand, from the correspondence provided that Sabres repairer may provide a 
courtesy vehicle whilst repairs are being undertaken. However, there wasnt one available at 
the time Mr Ws vehicle was being inspected. I can understand why Mr W wanted a vehicle, 
capable of towing, to use whilst his claim was being assessed. But I dont think his policy 
provides for this, and so I cant say that Sabre behaved unfairly. 
Having considered all of this, I think Sabre has behaved fairly when relying on its policy 
terms and offering a settlement payment in response to Mr Ws claim. I dont think it was 
required to offer a replacement vehicle, but it was responsible for a short delay and for 
communication failings in the overall handling of his claim. However, I think Sabres apology 
and offer of compensation is reasonable to acknowledge these points.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman