DRN-3900317
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that QIC Europe Ltd has declined a claim he made on his buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms property suffered damage during a storm so he contacted QIC to claim for the 
damage. QIC instructed a surveyor to inspect the property who agreed the damage was 
covered under the policy. And QIC offered Mr M a cash settlement of £4,917.73 less his 
excess of £200. However Mr M didnt want to accept a cash settlement as he would have 
had to source someone to do the work. So QIC said it would arrange for one of its 
contractors to do the work.
QIC arranged for another contractor to come out, but this contractor considered the damage 
to be down to wear and tear. So QIC said the claim wasnt covered.
Mr M complained about the way QIC had handled the claim. QIC offered Mr M £225 in 
compensation for initially saying it would settle the claim. But it maintained the loss wasnt 
covered under the terms of the policy. So Mr M referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said one surveyor had initially said there were no 
concerns with the claim, but a second surveyor then expressed concerns. However, the 
investigator said there wasnt anything to substantiate the second surveyors report. The 
investigator also highlighted that the windspeed at the time of the loss was 74mph, which he 
said was hurricane strength. So he thought the damage incurred was down to the strength of 
the winds as opposed to wear and tear.
QIC didnt agree with the investigator as it maintained the damage was down to wear and 
tear. And it asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
The terms of the insurance policy covers Mr M for loss or damage arising from a storm. 
However, the terms of the policy also sets out that it wont cover loss or damage that 
happens gradually  i.e. its down to wear and tear. QIC believes the damage occurred 
because of gradual damage to the fixings.
In thinking about this, Ive asked myself three questions:
1.    Were there storm conditions as defined under the terms of the insurance policy?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
There were wind speed of around 74mph at the time the damage occurred. So Im satisfied 
there was a storm and its not unusual for such windspeeds to damage roof tiles and fences. 
So Im satisfied the answer to questions (1) and (2) is yes. This also isnt in dispute. The 
issue is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.
It first needs to be remembered that there were extremely high wind speeds at the time  
74mph would be considered hurricane strength. Ive considered the second surveyor report 
QIC has provided which does suggest there was some wear and tear so the fixings  fence 
posts and alleged worn timber. But Im conscious it hasnt provided any photographs to 
support this. And, further to this, the initial survey report doesnt set out or express any 
concerns about the quality of the fixings.
It's, ultimately, for the consumer to show that there was loss or damage arising from an 
insured event  in this case a storm. But its then for QIC to demonstrate an exclusion clause 
applies that entitles it to decline the claim. As I said, there were extreme weather conditions 
at the time. And Im satisfied Mr M has demonstrated an insured event has taken place. 
However, I dont think QIC has given me enough to say the main cause of the damage was 
down to gradual deterioration of the fixings. As I said, there are two conflicting reports, but 
QIC hasnt provided anything to support that the second surveyor report is what actually 
happened. I dont dispute that theres likely to be some wear to the fixing, but I dont think its 
likely this was the main cause of the damage. It seems to me that the most likely cause of 
the damage is the high winds that occurred on that date. So it follows that I think it was unfair 
for QIC to decline the claim.
I understand that Mr M has since paid to have the damage repaired. So I think QIC should 
refund the amount Mr M has paid  subject to him providing a copy of the repair invoice and 
proof hes paid it.
I also think this matter has caused Mr M a lot of distress and inconvenience. QIC initially said 
it would settle the claim, but then retracted this offer a number of months later. I can see 
Mr M was continually having to chase for an update during that time too. Finally, Mr M had to 
arrange to get the repairs done himself, which he shouldnt have had to do. I note QIC has 
already offered £225 in compensation, but I think £400 is a fairer reflection of the distress 
and inconvenience its caused Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to do the following:
1. Refund the amount Mr M has paid to repair the damage  subject to him providing a 
copy of the repair invoice and proof hes paid it;
2. Pay 8% simple interest per year on the amount Mr M paid from when he paid it until he 
gets it back. If QIC thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
3. While I understand Mr M has repaired the damage, QIC should arrange to repair the 
damage if he hasnt done so.
4. Pay £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused. It can deduct 
the £225 previously offered if its already paid this.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman