DRN-3793827
The complaint
Mr T complains that Starling Bank Limited hasnt refunded him the money he lost when he 
fell victim to an investment scam in 2021.
Mr T brings his complaint with the aid of professional representation, but for clarity in what 
follows I will refer throughout just to Mr T.
What happened
Mr T says hed been researching potential investments for some time. He was 
recommended to contact a specific trader by someone hed spoken to on social media. 
Mr T made contact with the trader through an instant messaging platform. The trader 
claimed to a be involved in foreign exchange (forex) trading. Mr T was told about a range of 
trading options and was told these would give a return of nearly ten times his initial 
investment within a week, or more after two weeks. The broker said this was a guaranteed 
return.
Keen to proceed, Mr T made initial payments from his account held with another bank. He 
appeared to be making significant profits but was told he needed to pay fees.
The first payment he made from his Starling account was a debit card payment of £996.73. 
This payment was made on 10 November 2021, to Mr Ts account at a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange. 
Once the funds had been received at the exchange, Mr T purchased cryptocurrency which 
he then sent to the destination wallet hed been instructed to use by the trader. He was told 
this would credit his account with the traders online platform. Mr T was able to log on to this 
platform and view the credits and subsequent trades being made.
Over the course of the next five weeks, Mr T made further payments from both his Starling 
account and from his account with another bank. From his Starling account, in total, Mr T 
sent eight card payments and four Faster Payments transfers, amounting to a net figure of 
over £14,000. These went to several different destinations.
But despite having already paid for multiple fees he hadnt been expecting, Mr T was asked 
to pay more. Mr T realised this couldnt be right and when he spoke to Action Fraud it was 
confirmed hed been scammed.
He then reported what had happened to Starling on 24 November. After reporting the scam, 
Mr T made two further faster payment transfers for smaller sums to one of the accounts in 
his own name. However, Mr T explains these were also connected to the scam.
Starling said it had no rights to chargeback the card payments Mr T had made to his 
accounts with the cryptocurrency exchanges. This was because Mr T wasnt disputing 
having been provided the service hed paid for from those merchants (the purchase of 
cryptocurrency). The loss had happened later - when Mr T sent that cryptocurrency onwards 
to the destinations specified by the scammer. 
Of the four bank transfers Mr T had sent, three were made to accounts he held and 
controlled in his own name. No funds remained for possible recovery because hed used all 
of the money hed sent to buy cryptocurrency, which hed then sent onwards to the 
scammer. But for the single payment Mr T had made to another person, Starling contacted 
the recipient bank and attempted to recover the money hed sent. Unfortunately, the 
scammer had moved the money on, and none could be recovered. 
Starling didnt think it was liable to reimburse Mr T. It had carried out the transactions hed 
authorised and had no reason to have prevented him from making these payments. It 
pointed out that all but one of these payments had gone to accounts in Mr Ts own name, so 
the point of loss hadnt been the payments from Mr Ts Starling account but had occurred 
when hed subsequently sent the funds onward from his accounts elsewhere.
For the single payment Mr T had transferred to another person, Starling thought he hadnt 
held a reasonable basis for believing he was paying for a legitimate investment or paying the 
person he expected to pay. Mr T didnt accept what Starling said.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint about Starling. He was sympathetic to the loss 
Mr T had sustained through this scam. But he didnt think Starling had treated Mr T unfairly 
in declining to reimburse him. He didnt think that the payments would have appeared 
sufficiently remarkable that Starling ought to have intervened to discuss the payments with 
Mr T before processing them.
The Investigator noted that the Lending Standard Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code) can provide additional protection to victims of some Authorised Push 
Payment scams. But he said this could only be applied to payments made to an account not 
controlled by Mr T  which in this instance meant it could apply to just one of the twelve 
payments Mr T had made. 
In relation to that one payment, the Investigator thought Starling was entitled to choose not 
to refund Mr T under the terms of the CRM Code. He didnt think Mr T was vulnerable under 
the terms of the code, didnt think Mr T had held a reasonable basis for believing what he 
did, and didnt think the provision of an effective warning by Starling would have had a 
material effect on preventing the payment.
Mr T didnt accept this. He thought Starling should have identified the payments as being 
unusual. It had required him to authenticate some of the payments using One Time 
Passcodes (OTPs) and using his mobile app to verify the instructions. Hed spoken to 
Starling about at least one transaction. 
The Investigator asked Starling to clarify these points. Starling explained that its records 
showed only one time where it had spoken to Mr T during the sequence of these payments. 
That had been when Mr T had called to request a payment was cancelled as he had been 
unable to complete ID verification when opening a new account with the merchant. That 
payment had not gone ahead. The call hadnt prompted any concerns.
Mr T remained dissatisfied with the Investigators findings. In light of this disagreement, I 
have been asked to review everything afresh and reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr T. I can understand entirely why he considers 
his money should be returned. Hes been the victim of a crime here, and hes explained the 
impact its had. He was deceived by a scam that led him to believe the trader was investing 
his money and making a significant profit. Mr Ts been left out of pocket by a significant sum 
as a result. So, I can appreciate why hed now like Starling to refund what hes lost, and why 
he wants Starling to take the blame.
However, the main cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Mr T. For me to 
say Starling is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could and 
should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in 
some other way.
Here the payments Mr T made during the course of the scam were a mixture of card 
payments and Faster Payments bank transfers. 
A voluntary code does exist to provide additional protection against some scams (the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). Starling is a signatory to the code. 
But as the Investigator explained, the CRM Code does not apply to card payments, only to 
some faster payment transfers. And transfers made to accounts under a customers own 
control wont normally be covered by the CRM Code. 
That matters because all but one of the accounts to which Mr T sent money from his Starling 
account were accounts registered in his own name and in his control. Hed set these up and 
knew they were being used as a route to move money on to the trading platform. So, based 
on what I have seen, I find that the CRM Code provisions dont apply to eleven of the twelve 
payments Mr T made. I find it does apply however to the single payment he made to an 
account held by another person - the £2,800 transfer he sent on 20 November 2021. I will 
address this payment first.
The payment covered by the provisions of the CRM Code: £2,800 on 20 November 2021
In relation to this payment, Ive considered whether Starling has fairly declined to reimburse 
Mr T under the terms of the CRM Code, or whether it should have done more.
The CRM Code permits a bank to decline to reimburse a customer when, amongst other 
things, it can establish that the customer made a payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing that they were paying for a legitimate service or that they were paying the person 
they intended to pay. Starling seeks to rely on this here.
I have considered the circumstances surrounding this payment, to determine whether I think 
Starling has fairly assessed Mr Ts claim. Firstly, based on the evidence available, including 
the chat history between Mr T and the scammer, I dont find Mr T was unable to protect 
himself at the time from this scam. I dont find he met the definition of vulnerability in the 
CRM Code. 
While aspects of the scam were undoubtably convincing, I think there were significant red 
flags that ought to have prompted Mr T to have doubts about the legitimacy of the payments 
he was making. And I consider Mr T did have concerns that the payments he was being asked to make werent being properly explained to him, including the fees he was asked to 
pay. However, I think Mr T was willing to overlook these concerns in the hope of achieving 
returns that were simply too good to be true. 
I consider that Starling should have provided Mr T with a warning at the time he was making 
this payment. This was required to meet the requirements of an Effective Warning under the 
provisions of the CRM Code. While Starling did give a scam warning, I am not satisfied that 
what it provided was sufficient to meet the Codes minimum requirements. However, I dont 
find this shortfall was material to the success of the scam  all taken into account I consider 
it most likely Mr T would still have gone ahead with the payment even had Starling provided 
an Effective Warning at that point. 
I say this in light of the fact that the scam had been in operation for some time and Mr T was 
considerably under the scammers spell. And even after Mr T had identified hed likely been 
scammed and had discussed this with Action Fraud, he still made two further transfers. On 
balance I find it unlikely that even an effective warning message at the time of this payment 
would have stopped him.
Overall, having carefully considered the representations made by both sides, I think Starling 
has established that it can fairly choose not to reimburse Mr T for the payment covered by 
the CRM Code.
Considerations besides the CRM Code
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply to all but one of the 
transactions Mr T made, that Code is not the full extent of the relevant obligations that could 
apply in cases such as this. 
First of all, under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have a primary obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam - for example as part of an investment scam such as this was. 
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank also has a duty 
to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice Starling should have been 
looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer through fraud or a scam. 
In short, the test I need to apply here is whether the evidence is such that I consider Starling 
ought to have had significant concerns that these transactions could be indicative of possible 
financial harm through fraud or a scam  to the extent that this would have overcome its 
primary obligation to carry out Mr Ts payment instructions. 
With all of the above in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that Starling did enough given the specific circumstances here. 
While Ive carefully considered all the evidence and points raised by Mr T, I dont consider 
these payments, were so significantly unusual that I could find Starling at fault for not having 
taken further steps than it did. Mr T had only held the account for a few months prior to the scam, so Starling had limited prior history against which to compare these payments. 
Ive reviewed the call Mr T has referenced. But I am satisfied that Starling reasonably didnt 
have concerns based on that call. There was nothing in the call to suggest Mr T would be 
about to fall victim to a scam. 
And I consider it relevant that all (bar one) were made to accounts held in Mr Ts own name, 
which all things being equal would have had the effect of reducing the apparent risk of loss 
through fraud or scam. When some weeks after the initial scam had come to light Mr T sent 
two smaller payments to his cryptocurrency exchange wallet, I dont think Starling, in the 
circumstances would have had cause to think these werent now legitimate transactions. 
These were payments to a wallet Starling knew was held by Mr T, and I dont find it was 
unreasonable for it to have assumed he was pursuing legitimate, if risky, investments now - 
having already uncovered and reported the scam and knowing what he now knew about 
scam risks.
On balance, and taking everything into consideration, I do not find that there was enough 
here for me to say Starling should have intervened rather than fulfil its primary obligation to 
carry out Mr Ts instructions. 
Further I am satisfied that when Starling was made aware of the scam, it took the 
appropriate actions. This included its attempts to recover Mr Ts lost funds. However, those 
funds had already been moved on from Mr Ts own accounts in the course of the scam, and 
nothing remained in the one account that hadnt been in Mr Ts own name. So, it simply 
wasnt possible for Starling to recover the money hed lost.
Overall, I dont find Starling was at fault here. I cant fairly require Starling to refund these 
payments.
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr T and 
I am sorry he has lost out. Mr T was the victim of a crime, and what was a cruel scam 
designed to defraud him of his money. I appreciate that what hes lost here adds up to a 
significant sum. But it is simply the case that I dont find Starling was at fault in making these 
payments in line with the instructions he gave at the time, and I dont find the bank liable to 
refund him for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint about Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman