DRN-3374702
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege (UKI) 
handled a claim he made under a Home Emergency policy he holds jointly with Mrs D.
All reference to the insurer UKI in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr D reported that a toilet was blocked to his Home Emergency (HE) provider
UKI. He called at around 9.30pm. He called again twice around midnight. But a plumber
didnt attend until around 8.30am the following morning.
The plumber carried out some interim repairs which they said would allow use of the toilet
until a drainage agent attended a couple of hours later.
Mr D complained to UKI as he said it took too long for a plumber to attend and fix the
problem. He said that either the plumber or the drainage agent were responsible for a flood
of water from the bathroom which led to them having to make a separate claim under their
home and buildings insurance policy. Mr D said the toilet was the only one in their property
and they had a young child. He was unhappy about the disruption caused. He said he and
his family had to move out for a week until the property was habitable to return to.
UKI upheld Mr Ds complaint in part. It said the service it had provided fell short. For the
distress and inconvenience caused it paid Mr and Mrs D £75 compensation.
It said the agents who attended the property said they didnt do anything wrong. So UKI said
it wasnt responsible for the flood damage.
Mr D remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. He wants UKI to refund the
excess they paid and remove any record of the claim.
Our Investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld and recommended UKI 
increase its compensation award to £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Both parties disagreed. I issued a provisional decision on 16 February 2022. I thought the 
complaint should be upheld in part and intended to award compensation of £200. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. In summary Mr D has 
reiterated their account of what happened. Hes unhappy with the compensation amount of 
£200. Mr D doesnt agree UKIs contractors arent at least in part responsible for some of the 
damage which led to their claim against their home and buildings insurance policy. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a dispute as to what happened between the parties. So Ive looked at the timeline
and comments provided by UKI and by Mr D. Ive considered what most likely happened on
balance.
I think the attendance of the first plumber should have happened much sooner, given the
circumstances of the emergency. Mr and Mrs D have a young child and there was one toilet
in their home which they couldnt flush for almost 12 hours.
From the call notes provided by UKI, Mr D called back twice within around twenty minutes at
midnight. He said there was water dripping into their ceiling  and then he called to say there
was a foul smell coming from the water leak in the ceiling.
The first plumber who attended said he carried out a temporary fix which would allow Mr and
Mrs D to use the toilet until a drainage agent attended later that morning.
Mr D said that when the drainage agent started repair works, there was a sudden flood of
water from the bathroom that cascaded through the ceiling to downstairs.
The drainage agent reported that the leak had been ongoing when he got there and there
were cloths around the pipes  it was suggested that Mr and Mrs D had applied the cloths in
between the first plumber leaving and the drainage agent attending - as the first plumber
denied using cloths. In response to Mr Ds complaint, the agent on behalf of UKI claimed that
Mr and Mrs D had used a plunger which had caused the flood of water as the toilet became
jammed.
Mr D says they dont own a plunger. Mr D said the first plumber asked Mrs D for some cloths
to wrap around a pipe before putting back some panels as part of his temporary repair.
Mr D said there was no damage to the ceiling until the drainage agent attended.
The first plumbers job notes record that there was water dripping when the toilet was
flushed  but he had carried out an interim repair to enable use of the toilet until a drainage
agent attended. The notes report that the plumber thought the ceiling looked ok.
When the problem became worse the night before, I can see that Mr D contacted UKI to
update them. It doesnt seem likely to me that Mr or Mrs D would make a decision to put
some cloths around pipes not long after the first plumber attended to carry out a temporary
fix. I think if there was an ongoing leak at this stage Mr D would have contacted UKI to alert
them. And if the first plumber had properly carried out a temporary fix, I dont think it was
reasonable for there to be an ongoing leak when the drainage agent attended  if that were
the case.
The comment about Mr and Mrs D using a plunger came from the agent in response to the
complaint  but there was no reference to this in either of the job sheets. So I dont think this
testimony can be relied upon.
On balance, I find the account provided by Mr D more reliable than the agents who attended
their home. And I think from the records it shows Mr and Mrs D were put to disruption and
inconvenience over and above what they would expect to have for a claim of this nature. I
can see that further visits were necessary during the week in order to properly repair the
issue with the toilet. Mr and Mrs D said they moved out to a parents home for a week while
their home dried out and the toilet was repaired. I understand the disruption this would have
caused particularly with a young child following an escape of water in their home.
So I dont think the compensation UKI paid of £75 is enough. I think a more reasonable sumis £200 to reflect the inconvenience caused by UKIs poor service.
Mr D says he isnt sure if the water which leaked into their home was fresh or sewage.
In my provisional decision I said I havent seen anything to suggest that it was sewage, but I 
would consider this issue further if either party has further information.
In response, Mr D said he believes raw sewage may have leaked into his property. He says 
an inspector didnt find this and it wasnt reported. I cant make a finding that there was raw 
sewage leaking into their property as Ive seen no evidence to support this. 
I understand Mr Ds strength of feeling about his complaint and that they needed to claim 
against their home and buildings insurance policy, which he believes was only necessary as 
a result of poor workmanship under the HE claim. But as Mr D reported that there was water 
leaking into the ceiling within three hours of him first contacting UKI, I cant safely conclude 
that the failings of UKI has led to Mr and Mrs D having to claim for an escape of water under 
their home and buildings insurance policy. In other words, theres no way of knowing that 
had UKI acted sooner, no claim would have been necessary given the short period of time 
between Mr Ds calls to seek assistance and to report water damage. So in line with my 
provisional decision, I dont think UKI should refund the excess or remove the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Privilege to increase the compensation it pays Mr and Mrs D from £75 to £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman