DRN-3247727
The complaint
Miss M complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly closed her account and withheld 
funds held in it. 
To put things right, Miss M wants Santander to compensate her for the trouble and upset it 
caused her. 
What happened
Miss M was receiving funds from her relatives living abroad to help her with meeting financial 
commitments. 
After a review, Santander blocked Miss Ms accounts in March 2020 and asked her to show 
proof of entitlement to sums she received in February 2020, and then in March 2020.
Miss M gave information about where these funds come from to Santander. But Santander 
was not happy with this, so it gave notice to Miss M it was closing her accounts immediately. 
Santander withheld any remaining funds. 
   
Miss M complained to Santander  it didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. Unhappy with this 
Miss M referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the matter. 
In summary they found: 
- Santander acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when reviewing and 
later blocking Miss Ms accounts 
- Santander did not cause any unnecessary delays in carrying out its review 
- Santander fairly withheld Miss Ms money 
- The accounts were closed in line with the account terms and conditions 
Unhappy with this answer, Miss M raised several additional points. Ill summarise the main 
ones here: 
- Santander havent given any further information on the recovery of her funds 
- Its unclear where the funds are 
- Santander didnt say information provided by Miss M was insufficient 
- No information has been given whether Miss Ms credit score and related records 
have been affected by Santanders actions 
In response, our investigator said Santander acted in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when withholding Miss Ms funds  despite the information she sent it to show 
entitlement. They also said Santander didnt register any adverse data on Miss Ms credit 
file.  
Unhappy with what our investigator said, the matter as been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint 
her, so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
So I dont think Santander has acted unfairly by reviewing Miss Ms accounts. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Santander and Miss M had to comply with, 
say that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
 
Having looked at the information given to me by Santander, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account in the way it has done. Santander had written to Miss M to explain its 
decision to close her accounts in June 2020. 
I know Miss M would like to know the reasons why Santander decided to take the actions it 
did  including withholding the money in the account. Im not aware of any legal obligation 
why I should disclose the exact reasons. But I am satisfied, from the information Ive seen, 
that Santander has acted fairly in both closing Miss Ms accounts and withholding her 
money.     
I note Miss M says this matter has caused her financial loss. She also says its caused her 
and her family trouble and upset. I do appreciate this matter wouldve caused her some 
difficulty. But having looked at whats happened, I can see no basis on which I might make 
an award against Santander given I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures 
when it closed Miss Ms account. Nor do I think it caused unnecessary delay. 
So Im not going to ask Santander to compensate Miss M for any trouble and upset this may 
have caused.
Lastly, I note Miss M is concerned that adverse markers have been placed by Santander on 
her credit rating records. Santander say it hasnt done this and I havent seen anything to 
say the contrary. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman