DRN-2332607
The complaint
Mr M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) incorrectly told him he 
would clear his credit card balance within the interest free period if he continued to pay the 
minimum payment each month. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
I havent seen any evidence of M&S giving Mr M any advice about his credit card 
payments in the period he said he received it. M&S has no record of him speaking to 
any of its assistants and no payment plan was put into place. 
Even if there had been evidence of Mr M speaking to someone in M&S, it would be 
difficult to say it had done anything wrong without knowing exactly what was said. 
Mr M says the person he spoke to didnt access his account, so any advice provided 
would have been general. And we dont know what Mr M said or what was said in 
response. 
The balance on Mr Ms account increased during that period and it might have been 
possible to pay off the balance at the start of that period just by making minimum 
payments. So, any advice given might have been correct at the time, although it 
would have been conditional on Mr M not increasing his balance. 
M&S has pointed out that it would have been difficult for any of its staff to provide an 
exact repayment amount needed to pay off the balance, as they wouldnt have 
known how much the minimum payment would have been against the balance, or 
how much the balance would increase each month. I think thats a fair point and 
supports the view that any advice given would have been general in nature. 
Mr M was given information about his account and minimum payments in the credit 
card agreement and on each of the credit card statements he received. If he received 
contradictory information about that, I think it would be reasonable to expect him to 
clarify that with M&S.
In summary, I think it would be unfair to conclude that M&S had given Mr M incorrect 
advice without further evidence. As such, Im satisfied M&S handled Mr Ms 
complaint fairly and reasonably and I dont think it needs to do anything more.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Marks and Spencer Financial 
Services Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman