DRN-2730149
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd didnt correctly process his payment for a holiday and as a 
result the loyalty points hed accrued on his card werent redeemed against the purchase 
price. Hed like NewDay Ltd to pay him the monetary value of the points hed accrued.
What happened
Mr H had a Tui credit issued through NewDay. One of the features of this card was that it 
offered rewards points when it was used for certain transactions and these reward points 
could then be used against qualifying purchases from Tui.
In July 2020 NewDay wrote to all its Tui cardholders, including Mr H, to say that the credit 
card would be closing from 14 August. Customers who had more than 2,500 points at that 
time could redeem them up to 14 September but after that they couldnt be used. Mr H had 
accrued 10,842 points at this time.
On 12 September 2020 Mr H made a holiday booking for £250 using his Tui credit card. The 
payment was made via Mr Hs PayPal account linked to his card.
Mr H says hed expected his points to be credited against his purchase but they werent. And 
when he complained to NewDay, he was told that the transaction hadnt been a qualifying 
transaction so the points hadnt been redeemed. It said it wasnt able to change this but it 
offered Mr H £25 for the inconvenience.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He felt the way this had 
been dealt with was unfair. Hed taken a long time to save the points and believed he should 
now be credited with their monetary value.
Our investigator considered the complaint but said, under the terms and conditions of the 
credit card, NewDay was only responsible for administering the loyalty scheme on behalf of 
TUI and not for deciding which transactions were eligible. There was nothing to show 
NewDay had made a mistake in the way it handled this so although she could understand 
why Mr H felt so unhappy at what had happened, she couldnt reasonably ask NewDay to 
reimburse the cost of the points to Mr H.
Mr H disagreed and said hed spoken to Tui who said it was for NewDay to decide but 
NewDay had then said it was Tui who were responsible. He felt consumers were being left in 
the middle and it was unclear. And he said hed spoken to Tui before hed made the booking 
and Tui had told him that he would be able to use the points against a holiday. Hed done 
this but the points were redeemed. He considered NewDay was responsible for this and that 
it should now refund him the £110 in points that hed lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this isnt the decision Mr H was hoping for but having reviewed the information I 
dont consider NewDay has made a mistake as Ill now explain.
Ive seen Mr H had acquired more than 10,000 points on his Newday/ Tui credit card. This 
was worth about £110 and understandably he wanted to redeem them before the card 
closed on 14 September.
Ive also seen Mr H says hes spoken to Tui before he made this purchase on 12 September 
and was told hed be able to redeem them against a holiday. I think its important to note that 
this call was with Tui and not NewDay. Id also say that I havent seen any further details of 
this call but I dont doubt that Mr H was told he could use his points against a holiday as that 
was the purpose of the scheme. However, in order to be eligible, any purchase would still 
need to meet the terms and conditions of the scheme and the question here is whether Mr 
Hs purchase did this.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions relating to Mr Hs card and the rewards scheme. I can 
see there are a number of restrictions as to when the points can be redeemed and Ive set 
out the relevant ones below:
TUI Card Rewards Scheme Terms and Conditions
The Rewards Scheme
1. These rules govern the TUI Rewards Scheme (the Scheme), which is provided by 
TUI UK Limited trading as TUI (us/we/our) and operated by NewDay Cards Ltd. They 
form a contract between you, a customer who holds a TUI Mastercard issued by 
NewDay Ltd, and us.
2. These Scheme Terms and Conditions do not form part of your Account Agreement 
(as defined below) to which separate terms and conditions apply. For the avoidance 
of doubt neither NewDay Ltd, NewDay Cards Ltd nor any other member of the 
NewDay Group have any financial or other liability to you or any Customer in respect 
of the Scheme.
Redeeming your Rewards Points
10.Reward Points can only be redeemed against transactions (other than the 
purchase of foreign exchange) using your TUI Mastercard made in TUI retail stores 
or on the www.tui.co.uk and www.firstchoice.co.uk websites (Qualifying 
Transaction).
Clause 10 sets out how points can be redeemed, that is they can only be redeemed against 
transactions made with the credit card either in a Tui store or on one of their websites. And it 
seems clear from this that it has to be a direct transaction between the cardholder and a Tui 
shop or website made using the NewDay credit card.
Ive seen Mr H booked accommodation using his Tui card and believes this should have 
allowed him to redeem his points against the price. But the information Ive seen shows that, 
although Mr H paid for the booking using his Tui credit card, he made the payment via 
PayPal and not direct with Tui. It may seem a small difference but in effect Tui was paid by 
PayPal and not by Mr H. And because of that there wasnt a direct transaction between Mr H 
and Tui, which meant that it didnt trigger an automatic redemption of Mr Hs points.Ive seen how disappointed Mr H is by whats happened. Thats understandable as hed 
acquired a lot of points and wanted to use them before they expired. I know Mr H feels 
NewDay should honour the points and pay him the equivalent monetary value I can only ask 
it to do that if I find its made a mistake. However as set out above, I dont consider NewDay 
has made a mistake or acted unfairly. And for that reason, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman