DRN-3454967
The complaint
T, a business, complains that GPUK LLP trading as Global Payments didnt do enough to 
defend chargebacks.
What happened
T has an agreement with Global Payments to provide merchant processing for its card 
payments. T complains about the outcome of three chargebacks of these payments. It 
explains that it provides accommodation booked by its clients through a third-party booking 
agent. T says it is unhappy that the payments for three bookings were charged back. And 
that this was despite it providing the information to defend the chargebacks that Global 
Payments requested.
Global Payments said it hadnt made any mistake. It said that the chargebacks were valid 
under the relevant scheme rules for goods or service not provided. It was satisfied that the 
bookings had either been cancelled or in one that the cardholder had made a reasonable 
attempt to cancel the service. And in that case T had refused to cancel or provide any 
alternative offer. It didnt think that there was sufficient proof that Ts terms and conditions 
were properly disclosed and agreed to by the cardholders prior to completion of the 
transactions. The rules of the card scheme set out that this may be accepted by ticking a 
specific box or clicking a submit button. It also wasnt satisfied that the accommodation 
would still have been available given that there were government restrictions then linked to 
the pandemic. It referred specifically to one of the cardholders being outside this country and 
so they couldnt be provided with the service under the restrictions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Global 
Payments had contacted T about the chargebacks as would be expected. The terms of its 
agreement with T stated that:
If your response doesnt enable us to defend the chargeback, well notify you in writing why
and the debit previously applied to your bank account will remain.
The terms went on to set out that:
In order to defend disputes relating to disagreements about imposed terms and 
conditions or whereby a cardholder cancelled an online order and the merchant refused to 
refund, were required to prove proper disclosure of the cancellation/return/refund policy. 
To enable us to do this, the following is required:
Evidence that, as part of the sequence of web pages accessed prior to the 
checkout, the merchant included a click to accept button or other 
acknowledgement showing that the cardholder agreed to the terms and conditions 
and cancellation/return/refund policy, and
Details of the terms and conditions and cancellation/return/refund policy disclosed 
to the cardholder as part of these web pages.
He said that Global Payments was required to follow the rules and time limits set out by the 
relevant card schemes. It would only look to defend a claim if it met the requirements. It 
was satisfied that these bookings were cancelled, or an attempt had been made. And that T 
couldnt show it that the cardholders had accepted and understood the terms and 
conditions of the bookings T sought to rely upon in not providing a refund. He was satisfied 
Global Payments followed the chargeback process and it wouldnt be fair to say it had 
reached an unreasonable conclusion. The terms of any agreement may be enforceable 
outside of the chargeback process, but the application of card scheme rules took 
precedence here. The money hadnt been retained by Global Payments but returned and it 
wasnt unreasonable for it to charge a nominal amount to cover the costs whatever the 
outcome. He added that Global Payments had apologised for any customer service issues 
including where its global staff had been working remotely. He thought that this was a 
proportionate response.
T didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It said that Global Payments had 
behaved unprofessionally and there were communication issues. T believed that similar 
chargebacks had been found in its favour on the same evidence. There had been a broad 
spectrum of responses from Global Payments and no continuity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the issues for T, and that it was affected by the pandemic. These chargebacks 
represented three bookings for amounts I understand to be £200.60, £149.60 and £187.70. 
And so, a loss of business for T at a difficult time.
The investigator has set out the way in which Global Payments approached these 
chargebacks and I agree that it had to follow the relevant card scheme rules and apply its 
own terms. Id have expected it to look to defend a chargeback if there were sufficient 
grounds to do so.
I note from the information that two of the booking payments (for £149.60 and £187.70) had 
been cancelled by the third-party booking agent due to the pandemic. The chargeback 
referred to that third partys own terms of agreement it said T was bound by and that it had 
asked T for a refund and that the relevant clause was that:
Clause:  In the event  of a Force  Majeure  Event,  the Accommodation  shall  not charge  
(and shall  repay  (if applicable)  the Guests  affected  by the Force  Majeure  Event  any  
fee, costs,  expenses  or other  amount  including  the (non-refundable)  rate or the no-
show,  (change  of) reservation  or cancellation  fee) for (i) any cancellation  or change  of 
the reservation  made  by the Guests,  or (ii) that part of the reservation  that was not 
consumed,  due to the Force  Majeure  Event.
I have seen the correspondence between T and the client relating to the booking for 
£200.60. Global Payments took the view that the intent had been to cancel and that this was 
refused by T and no alternative offered. I dont think the conclusion by Global Payments was 
unreasonable. The specific circumstances of this client were that they were outside the 
country and unable to travel here due to the pandemic to take up the accommodation. I 
understand that part of the payment was a commission to that third-party agent, but T would 
need to pursue any refund with that third party.I appreciate that T has referred to its own Force Majeure clause which is different to that of 
the booking agent and it says it wouldnt provide for a refund in these circumstances. But I 
dont need to resolve that difference here because in any event Im satisfied that T hadnt 
been able to demonstrate explicit agreement by the cardholders to its terms and conditions 
(set out above) as required by Global Payments. 
Ive seen the correspondence about these chargebacks. I think Global Payments explained 
what the issues were at each stage and what the deadlines were. I dont doubt that T 
responded in good faith based on its understanding of the position and its business terms. 
But I also think Global Payments showed that it applied the rules of the relevant card 
scheme and its own chargeback terms and guidance in dealing with these. And in 
considering the chargeback process itself Im unable to find that Global Payments acted 
unreasonably when reaching its own conclusion about defending the chargebacks further. 
Im also not persuaded on what Ive seen that any communication issues were relevant to 
the outcome here and I can only look at these specific cases which are part of this complaint 
 not what might have happened for any other payments. So, I wont be requiring Global 
Payments to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman