DRN-3584232
The complaint
Mr D and Mr R complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr D and Mr R have travel insurance as a benefit with their bank account. This insurance is 
provided by AXA.
In June 2021, Mr D and Mr R took a trip abroad. During their trip, some items were stolen 
from the boot of their hire car when they were at the beach. The items taken included 
watches, passports, sunglasses, and an amount of cash, amongst other things. They 
reported the matter to the local police and had to obtain emergency passports to return 
home. They made a claim to AXA for the stolen items.
AXA rejected the claim. It said the policy didnt provide cover for the theft of valuables left 
unattended unless in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or in locked accommodation. As 
watches are defined as valuables under the policy, AXA said they wouldnt be covered. It 
also said that the policy didnt cover personal money and travel documents left unattended at 
any time unless in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or in the locked accommodation. So, the 
items such as cash and passports wouldnt be covered either.
Unhappy with this response, Mr D and Mr R complained to AXA and brought their complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter and found that the policy didnt provide 
cover for the items defined as valuables or personal money and travel documents if stolen 
from an unattended vehicle. So, she didnt think AXA had acted unfairly in declining these 
parts of the claim. However, she noted that in the submission to our offices, AXA had 
recognised that sunglasses are not defined as a valuable and so it would reconsider the 
claim for this item. She also said that a polo shirt claimed hadnt been considered  she 
recommended that AXA consider this item too.
Mr D and Mr R disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr D and Mr R have strong feelings about this matter, and they have provided 
detailed submissions to support their complaint, which I have read and considered. But it is 
important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr D and Mr R. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant policy terms and conditions
The claim falls under two sections of the policy. The first, section E  baggage and baggage 
delay, covers personal items. The relevant exclusions to this section state:
What is not covered
2. Loss, theft of or damage to Valuables left Unattended at any time (including in a 
vehicle or in the custody of carriers) unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit 
box or left in Your locked accommodation.
3. Loss, theft of or damage to Baggage contained in an Unattended vehicle unless:
a. the items are locked out of sight in a Secure Baggage Area;
b. forcible and violent means have been used by an unauthorised person to 
effect entry into the vehicle;
c. evidence of such entry is available.
Valuables are defined under the policy as:
jewellery, gold, silver, precious metal or precious or semiprecious stone articles, 
watches, furs, cameras, camcorders, portable satellite navigation systems, 
photographic, audio, video, computer, television and telecommunications equipment 
and other electronic entertainment devices (including but not limited to mobile 
phones, MP3 or 4 players, tablets, ebooks, CDs, DVDs, tapes, films, cassettes, 
cartridges and headphones), computer games and associated equipment, telescopes 
and binoculars.
The second section is section F  Personal money and travel documents. This states it 
provides the following cover:
We will pay You up to the £500 (with a maximum of £300 for bank notes, currency 
notes, and coins) for the accidental loss of, theft of or damage to Personal Money 
and Travel Documents (including driving licence) 
The relevant exclusion under this section states the following:
What is not covered
2. Loss, theft of or damage to Personal Money and Travel Documents left 
Unattended at any time (including in a vehicle or in the custody of carriers) unless 
deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box or left in Your locked accommodation.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Mr D and Mr R left their belongings in the boot of their hire car whilst at the beach. The 
window was smashed in order to gain entry. Mr D and Mr R have provided photographic 
evidence of the damage. Based on the policy terms above, Im persuaded that there is cover 
for the theft of baggage in these circumstances. However, there are certain items within this 
section, defined as valuables, which are not covered if left in an unattended vehicle. And 
there is a similar exclusion under the personal money and travel documents section. The definition of personal money and travel documents includes passports. So, Im satisfied that 
the claim for the watches, cash, passports and driving licences are not covered. 
I appreciate that Mr D and Mr R have explained why they had these items with them and 
why they made the decision to leave them in the vehicle. However, insurers are entitled to 
decide what risks they will accept. And not every eventuality will be covered. The events an 
insurer will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of the 
policy. Im satisfied that AXA has clearly set out what it will cover in relation to a claim for a 
theft from an unattended vehicle within the policy terms. 
The restrictions detailed in the policy wording in relation to the types of items covered in this 
scenario are not significant or unusual. In fact, the majority of travel insurance policies will 
contain similar, if not the same, conditions and exclusions on such thefts from a vehicle. So, 
I dont think these particular exclusions needed to be specifically brought to Mr C and Mr Rs 
attention. However, I note that the exclusions are not only in the main body of the policy 
terms and conditions but are also referred to in the Key Facts  which is a summary of the 
cover available. Im therefore persuaded that AXA has done enough to make these 
exclusions clear.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that AXA has acted fairly and in accordance with 
the policy terms when declining the claim for the personal money and travel documents and 
those items listed as valuables.
However, as explained by our investigator, there are items that Mr D and Mr R have said 
were taken in the theft which do not fall under the definition of valuables. AXA needs to 
reconsider the claim for these items in line with the remaining terms of the policy wording.
Putting things right
AXA needs to reconsider the claim for items claimed that are not included in the valuables 
definition, namely the polo shirt and sunglasses, in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Im partially upholding this complaint.
AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to put things right as explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman