DRN-3929640
The complaint
Miss H complains she is unhappy with Financial Administration Services Limiteds (trading 
as Fidelity) actions following the migration of her ISA, specifically that it failed to take her 
monthly direct debit payments for her regular savings plan.
What happened
Miss H held a number of endowment plans and an ISA with a third-party provider. In 
December 2021, her accounts were migrated to Fidelity.
Around a year later, on 17 November 2022, Miss H contacted Fidelity after realising her 
monthly payments for her ISA werent being collected. Fidelity said it would look into the 
matter, but it didnt so Miss H complained.
Fidelity issued a response on 28 November 2022. It accepted that it failed to communicate 
with Miss H as promised during the call on 17 November 2022, so it paid her £50 for the 
inconvenience shed been caused. But it didnt agree that it had made a mistake with the 
monthly payments as it was for Miss H to set up the direct debit mandate. Fidelity referred to 
a letter it had sent a letter on 14 December 2021 informing her of this.  
Miss H didnt think Fidelity had done enough to put things right. This was because she said 
she hadnt received the letter from Fidelity. Unhappy with the response Miss H brought her 
complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators has looked at Miss Hs complaint. She was satisfied Fidelity had 
sent correspondence correctly addressed to Miss H, so she didnt think Fidelity needed to do 
anything further in relation to the complaint. Miss H didnt agree with that assessment, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. I 
understand this will come as a disappointment to Miss H, but Ill explain my reasons why.
Ive looked carefully at the information submitted by both parties. Miss H says she didnt 
receive the letter Fidelity issued on 14 December 2021 following the migration. But Fidelitys 
provided a copy of the letter which outlines the following:
About your regular savings plan
To continue with the regular savings plan that you had in place, you'll need to 
activate the one we've set up for you before we can collect your regular payments. 
We're sorry to ask you to do this but it's an HMRC requirement that you confirm your 
details with us - even if they're the same ones
Having reviewed all the evidence, Im satisfied that Fidelity issued the letter using Miss Hs 
correct address, so I think its more likely than not it sent this letter. I appreciate Miss H said 
she didnt receive it, but its enough that Fidelity has shown that it was sent. It cant be held 
responsible for letters that may have been lost in the post. 
I note Miss H feel strongly that Fidelity should have done more when the regular payments 
werent received however it has done what it needed to do. There was no requirement for it 
to have acted beyond this, so Im satisfied that Fidelity has not acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
On a final point, I understand Fidelity didnt look into the issue as it should have done when 
Miss Hs initially raised her query. But once Miss H raised her concerns again, Fidelity 
responded within 11 days of the original call. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that it made 
an acceptable offer of compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused by the delay. 
I know my decision will disappoint Miss H, but in light of everything, Im satisfied Fidelity 
doesnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman