DRN-2022897
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs S complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1993 Mr M and Mrs S took out PPI alongside a mortgage.
The policy provided them both with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding this complaint. Mr M and Mrs S disagree with 
our adjudicators view. 
Their main complaint is that they were told the policy was part of the mortgage application  
process and without PPI they would not be accepted for the mortgage. So they had felt 
pressured into taking out the PPI in order to obtain the mortgage they were applying for.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M and Mrs Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
It isnt reasonable to expect Mr M and Mrs S to remember exactly what was discussed when 
they took out PPI so long ago. So what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold their complaint. I have to take into account everything Ive seen and been told and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
On balance, I think Bradford & Bingley made Mr M and Mrs S aware that the PPI was 
optional and they chose to have it. 
I say this because the mortgage paperwork they signed offered Mr M and Mrs S the option 
of saying they didnt want PPI. So, despite what Mr M and Mrs S say about feeling pressured 
into having PPI, I think the mortgage application, which they both signed, made it clear they 
had the option to say no if they hadnt wanted it. 
Looking at all the information Ive got, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me to 
uphold Mr M and Mrs Ss complaint on this point. 
On the form there were different levels of cover that applicants could choose from if they 
wanted PPI. Mr M and Mrs S indicated on their signed application that they wanted accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover  and that they wanted to share the policy benefits 
equally between them. 
So, although I cant say exactly what was discussed at the meeting I think the paperwork 
was enough to make it clear that PPI was optional and Mr M and Mrs S chose the cover they 
each wanted. 
Bradford & Bingley says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M and Mrs S - but it still had to 
make sure it told them enough about the policy for them to decide if they wanted to buy it. 
And if that didnt happen I have to decide if having clearer information wouldve made a 
difference.  
As Mr M and Mrs S were both working when they took out this mortgage I can see why they 
each wanted to have the protection the policy offered. 
They were both eligible for the policy and I think that Mr M and Mrs S couldve benefitted 
from the PPI. 
I say this because Mr M told us he wouldve received no sick pay. And although Mrs S 
wouldve received up to 6 months sick pay, the policy wouldve paid out in full, and on top of 
sick pay, for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim if they couldnt work as a 
result of accident or sickness.
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months if Mr M and Mrs S became 
unexpectedly unemployed. 
Although theyve mentioned they had other ways to pay the mortgage if they werent able to 
work they havent provided any details about this. 
So, looking at what I know about Mr M and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think the 
policy offered them worthwhile benefits. 
Its possible some information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr M and Mrs S about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, they werent affected by any of the policy 
exclusions or limitations. So I think it unlikely that having better information about what the 
policy didnt cover wouldve put Mr M and Mrs S off having the PPI. 
On balance, I think Mr M and Mrs S were given enough information to make a decision. 
They chose the cover they wanted when they had the option to decline PPI. I dont know 
how well Bradford & Bingley explained what the PPI would cost  but they chose to take it 
out when they couldve said No to having PPI - so they do seem to have wanted PPI at the 
time. And Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for them. 
On balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bradford & Bingley  doesnt have to 
repay everything Mr M and Mrs S paid for it.But Bradford & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M and Mrs S 
because: 
Bradford & Bingley got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M and Mrs S about that. Because 
Bradford & Bingley didnt tell Mr M and Mrs S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Bradford & Bingley has to pay back to Mr M and Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford & Bingley should 
also pay back to Mr M and Mrs S any extra interest they paid because of that. 
Bradford & Bingley should pay back to Mr M and Mrs S the extra they paid each 
month because the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI. Bradford & Bingley should also pay Mr M and Mrs S 8%* simple interest on 
each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M and Mrs S can claim 
back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay to 
Mr M and Mrs S all of the cost of the PPI that they paid.
But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay to Mr M and Mrs S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman