DRN-2010383
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a Select packaged bank 
account in 2005. Ms C has said that she was pressurised into taking out this account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already. They did not think that the 
Select account was mis-sold. Ms C did not agree with this and therefore her complaint was 
passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Cs complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think Lloyds mis-sold the Select account to Ms C. Id like to explain why I think thats the 
case. 
Firstly, I have considered whether Ms C was given a fair choice to take out the Select 
account. I can see that Ms C had held a free account for a number of years with Lloyds prior 
to this upgrade. So I think that she would have been reasonably aware that Lloyds did offer 
free accounts, and they were an option for her. 
Ms C has said that she was pressurised into taking this account. Specifically, she has 
explained that as she had a mobile phone she was presented with scary scenarios about 
her account security and mobile phone theft. I have carefully considered this and I should 
explain that for me to conclude that Ms C was pressurised into taking out the account I 
would need to be persuaded that Ms C felt that she had no choice but to proceed with the 
upgrade. Based on what Ms C has said, I believe that she agreed to the account because 
she was persuaded of the need to insure her mobile phone, rather than because she felt that 
she had no choice but to upgrade. This is highlighted by Ms C registering a mobile phone 
handset under the mobile phone insurance policy shortly after the upgrade. 
I also should add that Ms C downgraded her account in 2008. This suggests that she was 
aware that the account was optional. Therefore, if she did upgrade her account solely as she 
believed that she had no choice but to agree to the upgrade, I think its likely she wouldve 
downgraded her account at the earliest opportunity, rather than continue to pay for a number 
of years, for something she says she didnt really want.
Lloyds has said that the Select account was recommended to Ms C and I am satisfied, 
based on my understanding of Lloyds sales practices, that it wouldve been an advised sale. 
Ms C has said that the account was not recommended to her, as this suggests that she was 
eager to buy the account. I should explain though that Lloyds recommending the account 
means that it had a higher duty of care during the sales process and therefore had to ensure 
that the account it recommended was the most suitable for Ms Cs circumstances. So using 
the term recommended does not relate to Ms Cs willingness to upgrade her account, but 
whether Lloyds did what it was required to do, when selling the account to Ms C. 
In this instance, the major benefits that the account came with were breakdown cover and  
mobile phone insurance. I note that Ms C has said that she did not own a car, so could not 
use the breakdown cover. But as stated above, Ms C registered a mobile phone. So, I think 
that she couldve found the mobile phone insurance benefit useful. This is the cheapest 
account that was available that had this benefit. And as the account was sold as a package, 
there was no option to change what exactly was included with the account. Therefore, I dont 
think that Lloyds recommendation was inappropriate, even though Ms C may not have 
needed all of the benefits that were included with the account.
I accept that Ms C may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cannot see anything specific that she was not told, that I think 
wouldve altered her decision to take out the account. Ms C may now, with the benefit of 
hindsight, believe she hasnt benefitted from the account as much she had hoped and 
expected when she initially took it out. And given what she may have read and heard about 
packaged accounts, I can understand why she might believe this account was mis-sold. But I 
dont think she was misled into taking it. So I want to reassure Ms C that having looked at 
everything provided and thought about what shes said, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the 
Select account to her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman