DRN-3642191
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited avoided (treated it as if it never existed) 
his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim following the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr W took out a motor insurance policy with Aviva through a broker. When his car was 
stolen from outside his house a few days later, he tried to claim on his policy. Aviva declined 
his claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. When Mr W 
complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about modifications to his 
car incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy, refuse his claim and retain his 
premiums. But Mr W said he hadnt been asked about any modifications. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be upheld in part. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was deliberate 
or reckless. He believed it was careless. He said Aviva should refund Mr Ws premiums and 
pay him £150 compensation for the delay in making its decision about the claim. 
Aviva agreed with the Investigators view. But Mr W replied that he hadnt been asked 
questions about the modifications when he bought the policy. He also said he didnt receive 
the Statement of Fact. He said he thought his broker had called Aviva when he bought his 
policy, but he wasnt privy to their discussion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the effect this matter has had on Mr W and his family. I can 
understand that this has had a severe financial impact for them. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Aviva thinks Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a broker that his car had no modifications. Unfortunately, the 
sales call hasnt been retained and so Im unable to verify the question that he was asked or 
the answer that he then gave. 
But the broker has confirmed that Mr W was asked about any modifications to the car. And 
Mr W told Aviva that he gave the broker the cars details. I also think this is a standard 
question that is asked at point of sale. And so I think its most likely that Mr W was asked 
about any modifications to his car. 
Our approach where there isnt a recording of the sales call is that if the insurer can provide 
a Statement of Fact based on the information it says the consumer provided, we might 
accept this as a good indication of the questions the consumer was asked and the answers 
they provided. Aviva has provided us with the Statement of Fact that it said was provided to 
Mr W after the sale of the policy. This confirms the question asked about modifications:
Have any changes been made to the makers specifications other than being adapted solely 
to cater for any physical disability?
The Statement of Fact records Mr Ws answer as No. Mr W said he didnt receive this 
document, and I have no reason to doubt him. But Mr W also said he wasnt aware that the 
car had any modifications. So I think if he had received the document then he wouldnt have 
corrected the wrong answer. 
Mr W thought there had been a call from the broker to Aviva at the point of sale. But, as the 
Investigator has explained, the policy was set up online and no calls were made. 
During the claim validation process, Mr W directed Aviva to the dealer to obtain a full 
specification of his car when it was advertised for sale. This specification describes a list of 
recent significant changes to the car. So I think Mr W must have been reasonably aware that 
the car had been changed from the makers specification. And so I agree Mr W failed to take 
reasonable care when he didnt disclose that the car had been modified. 
Aviva has provided evidence from its underwriters which shows that if Mr W had not made 
this misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This means I am satisfied Mr Ws 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mr Ws misrepresentation was a careless one. This is because I havent seen 
evidence that he made a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Aviva was entitled to avoid Mr Ws policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Aviva does not have to deal 
with his claim following the theft of his car. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Aviva to rely on it to avoid Mr Ws 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
However, Aviva retained Mr Ws premiums as it thought the misrepresentation had been 
reckless or deliberate. So I think Aviva should now refund these, with interest, as it has 
already agreed to do. Aviva also delayed the claim for some months by not telling Mr W its 
decision when it had all the evidence it needed. The Investigator recommended that Aviva 
should pay Mr W £150 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance for the level of impact this delay had. Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Refund Mr W his premiums in full, adding interest at 8% per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
2. Pay Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay in 
deciding his claim. 
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman