DRN-3896062
The complaint
Mr G complains Vanquis Bank Limited mis-sold a repayment option plan. Hes also unhappy 
with the way Vanquis managed his credit card account, and the level of customer service 
they provided. 
What happened
Mr G had a credit card account with Vanquis. In November 2021, he called them to find out 
his outstanding balance. During this call, Vanquis adviser told him his account had been 
passed to a debt collection agency but was now back with them. Mr G said he wasnt aware 
this had happened and was unhappy hed not been told about it.
When trying to find out why his account had been managed this way, Mr G was unhappy 
with the explanations given by Vanquis advisers and the level of customer service they were 
providing. Because of this, he raised several concerns. These were:
Vanquis mis-sold him a repayment option plan.
Only the interest charged for the repayment option plan was refunded, and that the 
refund wasnt paid to him directly.
Vanquis didnt tell him when his account was passed to a debt collection agency, or 
when his account came back to them.
He lost use of his credit card.
Vanquis failed to answer all his complaint points and addressed them over several 
complaints.
Vanquis advisers had discriminated against him and provided poor levels of service.
Vanquis issued a total of six final response letters addressing Mr Gs concerns. They said:
The Financial Conduct Authority only obligated them to refund the interest charged 
on the premiums of his repayment option plan.
Mr G was sent correspondence saying his account could be passed to a debt 
collection agency after he broke the repayment agreement.
His account was passed back to Vanquis after the debt collection agency was unable 
to recover the full outstanding balance.
Vanquis were satisfied their advisers had acted courteously to Mr G, but they 
awarded him a total of £125 for mistakes they made when dealing with his 
complaints.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our Service.
Our investigator didnt think we could investigate Mr Gs complaint points about the 
repayment option plan because theyd been raised too late. He also explained our Service 
didnt have the power to make a finding on what refund Mr G was entitled to for his 
repayment option plan.
The investigator considered Mr Gs other concerns but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied Vanquis had treated Mr G fairly when managing his credit card 
account and felt Vanquis advisers had acted professionally. Our investigator also felt 
Vanquis offer of £125 was fair in recognising the inconvenience caused by their mistakes 
when dealing with Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators findings, so his complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale of the repayment option plan
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets the rules that explain which cases we can 
investigate. The relevant rule for this complaint point is DISP 2.8.2. This says we can only 
investigate a complaint raised within:
Six years of the event complained of; or if later,
Three years of the consumer becoming aware, or when they ought reasonably to 
have become aware they had cause for complaint.
Mr G says the repayment option plan was mis-sold, so this is the event complained of under 
the six-year part of the rule. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests the repayment option plan was added to Mr Gs credit card 
account when it was opened on 23 August 2010. This means he had six years from that date 
to raise a complaint about it, so it had to be done by 23 August 2016.
Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me Mr G complained about the repayment option 
plan before 5 November 2021. So, I consider he complained too late under the six-year part 
of the rule.
The next thing I had to consider is the three-year part of the rule. So, Ive had to decide 
when Mr G became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware he had cause to 
complain about the mis-sale of the repayment option plan.
Mr G has told us hes unsure of when he became aware of the repayment option plan. 
However, Vanquis has sent us evidence that shows Mr G called them to cancel the 
repayment option plan on 12 December 2013. Ive also seen that they wrote to him on 
20 December 2013 to confirm it had been cancelled.
The evidence suggests Mr G cancelled the plan himself on 12 December 2013. Because of 
this, I think that is the latest he ought reasonably to have been aware he was unhappy with 
the repayment option plan being added to his account without his knowledge. So, under the 
three-year part of the rule, he had until 12 December 2016 to raise his complaint.
As mentioned above, Mr G complained about this in November 2021, so he still did so too 
late under this part of the rule.
The FCA rules say we can investigate complaints that have been raised late if the delay was 
caused by exceptional circumstances. Mr G has said he didnt complain sooner because 
hes unsure if he was receiving his credit card statements by post or email when he had the repayment option plan. Hes also been very open with us and explained he has a learning 
disability which may have impacted his ability to complain.
Ive taken on board the points Mr G has made. But Ive not been persuaded they amount to 
exceptional circumstances within the meaning of DISP. Thats because the bar for 
exceptional circumstances is very high. This is demonstrated by DISP 2.8.4 that says, An 
example of exceptional circumstances might be where the complainant has been or is 
incapacitated.
The fact Mr G was able to contact Vanquis to cancel the repayment option plan 
demonstrates he was aware of it in December 2013. And, as Ive mentioned above, Mr G 
cancelling the plan himself demonstrates he didnt want it at that time. So, he also would 
have known at that time if he was unhappy with the way it was added to his account. This 
means that at the time he cancelled the policy, he could have told Vanquis he was unhappy 
with the way it was sold. I say that because he merely had to express his dissatisfaction to 
Vanquis for them to treat his concerns as a complaint.
Given the above, I dont consider we can investigate Mr Gs complaint about the mis-sale of 
the repayment option plan. Thats because he complained too late.
Refund for the repayment option plan
In early 2016, the FCA looked into the sale of repayment option plans. They believed things 
could have been clearer when these plans were sold. Because of this, they created a fund 
for consumers to receive refunds on any interest that was charged on the cost of the plans. 
This is why Mr G received a refund of just over £700 in November 2018.
As the scheme was set up by the FCA, our Service doesnt have the power to investigate 
what refunds consumers were entitled to.
Mr G has explained hes unhappy the refund of interest was used to reduce the outstanding 
balance on his credit card. I appreciate why Mr G would have liked the £721.39 paid to him 
directly. But when a consumer has an outstanding debt, its not unreasonable for a financial 
business, like Vanquis, to use any refunds to reduce the amount owed. Ultimately, Mr G still 
benefitted from the refund. But it just didnt happen in the way he may have hoped. Its for 
this reason, I dont consider anything further needs to be done regarding this complaint 
point.
Management of Mr Gs credit card account
Mr G is unhappy with the way Vanquis managed his credit card. Hes complained Vanquis 
didnt contact him before passing his account to a debt collection agency or tell him before 
his account was returned to them. Mr G is also unhappy that he lost use of his card.
In late 2016 Vanquis agreed a repayment plan with Mr G after he fell into financial 
difficulties. However, from August 2016 Vanquis issued several notices of default as Mr G 
didnt keep up with the repayment plan. This resulted in his account being defaulted in 
December 2018.
Ive seen copies of the default notices sent to Mr G and they explained Mr Gs account could 
be passed to a debt collection agency if his arrears werent cleared. Given the arrears 
werent cleared in time, and his account defaulted, I cant agree Vanquis did anything wrong 
when it passed Mr Gs account to a debt collection agency in December 2019.I can understand why Mr G would have liked to have received an update from Vanquis when 
they passed his account to a debt collection agency. I would expect steps to be taken to 
ensure consumers are aware of which business is managing their account. However, it isnt 
uncommon for debt collection agencies to write to consumers once theyve taken over an 
account. Because of this, its been somewhat disappointing to see that Vanquis havent 
taken steps to demonstrate whether the debt collection agency that took over Mr Gs 
account reached out to him in December 2019.
Vanquis has explained Mr Gs account was passed back to them in July 2021 after the debt 
collection agency was unable to recover the funds and clear what Mr G owed. Ultimately, its 
for Vanquis to decide what their debt collection processes look like. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Mr Gs account was treated differently to others with similar circumstances. 
Because of this, I cant agree it was wrong for Vanquis to use a debt collection agency, and 
subsequently take Mr Gs account back when the debt wasnt cleared. However, having 
reviewed the contact notes provided by Vanquis, Ive not seen anything to show they 
contacted Mr G in July 2021 to let him know his account was back with them. It seems that 
he first became aware of this when he called Vanquis in November 2021 asking for an 
update on his outstanding balance. 
As mentioned above, Id expect financial businesses to take steps in ensuring their 
customers are aware of who is managing their account. So, I dont consider it was 
unreasonable for Mr G to be unhappy when he felt his account had been to and from a debt 
collection agency without his knowledge.
Having considered everything, I dont consider Ive seen enough evidence to persuade me 
Vanquis did all it could to keep Mr G properly updated about who was managing his account, 
and when. But Im not persuaded the lack of clarity had a sufficiently detrimental impact on 
Mr G to warrant an award. I say this because he hasnt told us about any difficulties he 
encountered while trying to manage his account. The contact notes and contents of the 
relevant call recordings between Mr G and Vanquis persuade me Mr G only had concerns 
after he found out about the involvement of a debt collection agency in November 2021.
Mr G has also raised concerns about being unable to use his credit card after his account 
was passed back to Vanquis. Having reviewed the letters Mr G received concerning his 
repayment plan and the notices of default, Im satisfied that he ought to have been aware he 
wasnt supposed to use his card from late 2016. 
The letters confirming Mr Gs repayment plans explained the plan would come to an end if 
Mr G used his credit card. Those letters also advised him to find alternative methods of 
payment if he had any on-going subscriptions that were normally paid from his credit card 
account. Also, the notice of defaults he was sent said No further use of this account is 
permitted at this time. Vanquis used the address we have for Mr G on file. Its possible 
these letters werent received by him; but I dont consider it would be fair to hold Vanquis 
responsible for any issues there may have been with Mr G receiving post  particularly as 
I cant see that Vanquis were made aware of any problems.
Its not disputed that Mr G had outstanding arrears hed been struggling to repay, and that 
his account had been defaulted. This means his agreement with Vanquis had been broken. 
Because of this I dont consider Vanquis treated him unfairly by preventing him from making 
further transactions with his credit card account. This isnt unusual  in fact, I consider it was 
appropriate given Mr Gs financial circumstances and the steps hed been taking to manage 
his outstanding credit card debt effectively.
Considering the above, I wont be asking Vanquis to do anything to put things right regarding 
this complaint point.Level of customer service provided by Vanquis
Mr G is unhappy with the way Vanquis communicated with him, and the level of customer 
service they provided. Hes also said their actions amount to discrimination.
Our Service is unable to make findings on whether any actions or omissions amount to 
discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. Thats because were an informal Service, and 
only a Court can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out in the Act. However, 
I can consider whether Vanquis treated Mr G fairly and reasonably, and when doing so, I can 
take the Equality Act 2010 into consideration.
Having listened to the relevant calls between Vanquis and Mr G, Im satisfied their advisers 
were professional and polite in all the calls Ive listened to. I consider the advisers 
maintained their professionalism, and Im satisfied they asked relevant questions to ensure 
they properly understood Mr Gs concerns. They listened to his answers so that they could 
advise him as best they could and did so in a clear manner. Vanquis advisers did this 
despite the multiple examples Ive heard of Mr G shouting, swearing, speaking over the 
advisers, and calling them offensive names  even after he was asked to stop multiple times. 
I appreciate Mr G was unhappy with Vanquis. However, I would have expected him to 
remain polite and courteous when speaking with their advisers. I consider Mr Gs behaviour 
during most of his calls was unacceptable and contributed to the problems he experienced. 
Ive had to take this point into consideration when deciding what needs to be done to resolve 
things.
While Im satisfied with the way Vanquis communicated with Mr G, there were occasions 
where they made mistakes.
Mr G has complained Vanquis addressed his concerns over several final responses. Hes 
said this made things difficult for him to understand due to his learning disability. Having 
reviewed all the evidence, I agree there were occasions where Vanquis advisers didnt 
correctly log his complaints. This resulted in him having to call Vanquis to clarify why they 
hadnt properly addressed his complaint points. Also, one of their final responses didnt 
reach Mr G because theyd spelled his email address incorrectly.
I cant see that Mr G made Vanquis aware of his learning disability before December 2021. 
This means they wouldnt have known logging multiple complaints was unhelpful for him. It 
also means they had limited opportunity to make reasonable adjustments. However, once 
they were made aware, Vanquis advisers apologised for any distress they may have 
caused. They also told Mr G he could refer his complaint to our Service if he remained 
unhappy with the way they were addressing his complaint. Vanquis taking steps to quickly 
acknowledge what Mr G had told them was the right thing to do in the circumstances.
But as Ive said above, Vanquis still made mistakes, and these were disappointing to see. 
Given Mr G was already unhappy, I can understand why these mistakes made him more 
frustrated, and why they caused him to make further calls to them. Because of that, its only 
fair Vanquis took steps to put things right.Vanquis acknowledged their mistakes in their final responses sent in December 2021 and 
February 2022. They offered Mr G a total of £125 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience their mistakes caused him. Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied 
the £125 award was reasonable for those mistakes. Its in line with what I would have 
suggested to recognise the additional time and effort Mr G spent trying to resolve his 
complaint. 
I should also add that Ive spotted a further mistake in the handling of Mr Gs complaint. 
When Mr G called Vanquis on 10 November 2021, he told the adviser someone had called 
him after hed logged his complaint on 5 November 2021. During this conversation the 
adviser said she couldnt see a note of this call. However, they both agreed this call most 
likely took place on 6 November 2021, and the adviser agreed to add this to his complaint so 
that the final response would confirm who called him on that date. Disappointingly, the 
15 November 2021 final response letter incorrectly commented on whether Vanquis had 
called Mr G on 10 November 2021. This date was repeated by Vanquis adviser during his 
call with them on 19 December 2021. 
As mentioned above, Vanquis has sent me recordings of calls theyve had with Mr G. One of 
these calls is dated 6 November 2021. This means Mr G was correct when he said an 
adviser had called him about his complaint on that date. Mr G frequently asked Vanquis 
advisers to make clear notes of his specific questions. So, its disappointing to see this didnt 
happen or that his calls werent thoroughly reviewed before Vanquis gave Mr G an answer.
While Ive spotted an additional mistake, Im not minded to increase the award Vanquis has 
already offered. This is because Ive had to determine whats fair to both parties. To do that 
Ive had to consider Vanquis mistakes alongside Mr Gs behaviour. Having done that, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to award an additional amount to put things right. 
Mistakes were made by both parties, and Im satisfied enough has been offered to resolve 
this complaint.
So far, Vanquis has paid Mr G £75 of the £125 award they offered. Vanquis has said its 
happy to pay Mr G the outstanding £50. So, I consider Vanquis should pay Mr G the 
remaining £50 to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Vanquis Bank Limited has already made an offer to pay a total of £125 to settle Mr Gs 
complaint, but £50 of this is yet to be paid to him.
So, Vanquis Bank Limited should pay Mr G £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman