DRN-1173270
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that FirstRand Bank Limited (FR) didnt act fairly when they took action to 
repossess his car which he was buying under a hire purchase agreement (the agreement). 
When Mr Ts mental health declined he fell into financial difficulty, and he believes FR didnt 
take this and his vulnerability into consideration when they decided to repossess his car.
What happened
Mr T was buying a car under an agreement financed by FR. From November 2017 to August 
2018 he didnt make any payments towards the agreement, so in July 2018 FR sent Mr T a 
Notice of Default. This they agreed to postpone whilst this service considered a Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) complaint Mr T had made against his PPI insurer (SCS). The 
reason for that, was that if it was successful, it might have provided him with enough funds to 
restart his payments. 
But on the 21 September 2018 FR found out this service hadnt upheld his complaint, and so 
they decided to continue with court repossession action due to the amount of arrears that 
had built up on the account, and because they believed the agreement was no longer 
affordable for him. Mr T didnt make any payments during the time his complaint was being 
investigated by this service.
Then on the 27 November 2018, shortly before the court hearing, Mr T made a large 
payment towards his account believing that would be sufficient to stop the repossession 
going ahead, but it didnt. Mr T made a complaint to FR but they rejected it as they didnt 
think they had done anything wrong. So Mr T brought his complaint to this service and an 
investigator looked into it but didnt think FR had acted unfairly. As Mr T didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate. Im not the industry regulator, and I dont have power 
to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they change their processes, or punish 
them. That is for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I will consider whether FR acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr T. I aim to 
address all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. So, I think we have an unfortunate situation. There are two main issues here, the first being 
whether FR took into account Mr Ts mental health condition in its dealings with him. 
Secondly, whether FR acted fairly and reasonably in taking the repossession proceedings 
against him.
 The starting point must be that Mr T had missed a lot of payments and was in significant 
arrears when FR took the decision to start repossession of the vehicle. Given the high level 
of arrears I can't fault FR for wanting to recover the vehicle, since they reasonably came to 
the conclusion that it was no longer affordable for Mr T on the basis of the high level of 
arrears. However, I think they did make some adjustments in the light of Mr Ts condition and 
overall position. The statement of account shows considerable forbearance in commencing 
any action, and when they eventually did, they agreed to let him explore his PPI claim with 
SCS. And when that didnt proceed, they allowed more time for him to bring a complaint to 
our service. So I do think that FR did make adjustments for Mr T and reacted appropriately in 
all the circumstances.
On the second issue of whether FR acted fairly and reasonably in continuing with court 
action, I have come to the conclusion they were and for these reasons. Despite having 
allowed Mr T time to sort out his finances and bring his account up to date, he had, 
unfortunately, been unable to. I accept he made a large payment in November 2018 but it 
did not clear all the arrears, and there remained a significant deficit. In the light of Mr T being 
unable to make any payments over the prior 12 months I think it was reasonable for FR to 
conclude that the vehicle was no longer affordable since there was no reasonable prospect 
of him making any further regular payments, and there was no evidence that he would be 
able to make any further lump sum payments in the near future. I appreciate Mr T feels that 
FR took proceedings against him during a time he was unwell but I do note from the contact 
notes that at the time the vehicle was recovered he was back at work. I think that 
demonstrates that Mr T had made a sufficient recovery to allow him to work and therefore be 
in a position to deal with the recovery proceedings.
So, although Mr T will probably be disappointed with my decision, cant say FR have acted 
unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against FirstRand Bank 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman