DRN-3633199
The complaint
Ms A complains that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited has mis-sold her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Ms A has made insurance claims in the past on the policy that havent been accepted 
and she therefore believes the policy is unfit for purpose.
Ms A would like Lloyds to refund the premiums shes paid since 2011.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it.
Ms A disagreed with our investigator. She said he had considered the complaint 
without seeing Lloyds response to the refund of the premium paid and she felt this 
undermined her complaint. She also maintains the policy is unfit for purpose as the 
legal cover element of the complaint is underwritten by another insurer. Ms A feels 
that this shouldnt absorb Lloyds accountability towards her, and her premiums 
should be returned.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an Ombudsman, for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to address Ms As concerns that she thinks our investigator considered the 
complaint without seeing Lloyds response to her complaint about receiving the refund of the 
premium paid. I can see we have a copy of Lloyds final response letter that it sent to Ms A, 
dated 11 March 2022. The letter addresses why Lloyds are unable to issue a refund of the 
premiums. I can see our investigator refers to this final response within his view under the 
section our role and our scope. So, I hope this reassures Ms A that he did consider it and I 
too have considered its response when making a decision about this complaint.
When selling insurance, insurers should be providing consumers with clear and enough 
information so that they are able to make an informed decision in whether the policy is 
suitable for them. This is a requirement under the Insurance Code of Business (ICOB) rules 
that regulated insurers such as Lloyds have to follow. 
I can see our investigator has already informed the parties of our approach when looking at 
complaints about mis-sale, in that we look at the whole sale process and not just the point of 
sale event itself. So, I dont intend to reiterate this fully again. 
From the information Ive seen Ms A purchased her insurance in a branch meeting and 
cover started on 24 August 2011. Lloyds has been unable to provide any documentation 
from what was discussed at this meeting. This isnt unreasonable as the event was nearly 11 
years ago. Financial businesses are not required to keep personal data and information for 
more than six years. We also cant consider complaints about events that happened over six 
years ago due to the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). The DISP Rules can be found 
online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook. So, I can only consider the sale/ 
renewal of insurance that took place from 2016 onwards.
I can see the policy was renewed each year and Lloyds say documents confirming the level 
of cover and premium costs were sent each year as per the requirement under the ICOB 
rules.
Having looked at the last renewal document pack sent in July 2020. I can see it confirms that 
this was a non-advised sale. This means under ICOB rules, Lloyds didnt recommend the 
policy but had to provide the consumer with relevant information to enable them to make a 
decision for themselves if it suits their needs. I can see the following documents were 
included in the pack; the renewal letter, the notice of changes, the statement of insurance, 
the insurance schedule, the key facts of the insurance which highlights the key cover and 
exclusions of the insurance policy, and a document about its insurance services.
Based on the information within the pack, Im satisfied Lloyds did provide Ms A with clear 
and enough information to make an informed decision if she wished to continue to renew her 
insurance policy. Lloyds had made it clear of the importance of checking the suitability of the 
policy and that it still fitted Ms As needs. The onus is then upon Ms A to read the information 
provided and decide if the product offered is suitable. 
So, from what Ive seen Im satisfied Ms A was provided with the relevant information. Im 
satisfied the 2020 policy and the policies before that wouldve followed the same ICOB rules 
and sales process so, Im persuaded the policies were not mis-sold and note Ms A continued 
to choose to renew her insurance each year with Lloyds.
I understand Ms A feels the policy was unfit for purpose as she had claims declined. 
Unfortunately, insurance does not cover for every eventuality, but specific one-off instances 
listed within the policy. Ms A has also mentioned being unhappy about the legal assistance 
on the policy and when she wanted to make a claim under the legal expense cover. The 
insurer for this part of the policy is underwritten by another insurer. This isnt uncommon on 
home insurance policies that include or have optional legal expense cover. And I can see 
Lloyds have provided the information of the insurer if Ms A wishes to make a further 
complaint. Depending on the nature of this complaint, Ms A will be referred in its final 
response to either the Legal Ombudsman or this service in some circumstances. But overall 
if the circumstances of a claim are not covered or is excluded, a claim will be declined but 
this doesnt mean a policy is unfit for purpose or been mis-sold. 
In summary, Im satisfied Lloyds havent mis-sold the policy in 2020. I havent seen any 
evidence that Ms A raised mis-sale allegations before 2021. Im therefore not persuaded the 
policies were mis-sold from 2016 onwards and I therefore wont be instructing Lloyds to do 
anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman