DRN-2575321
The complaint
Mr W complains on behalf of his company that I will refer to as D, that Aviva Insurance 
Limited has unfairly declined his claim on Ds home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr W is a director of D, a property management and investment company. D has insurance 
for properties it owns through Aviva. In December 2019 Mr W made a claim on behalf of D 
following storm damage to the gate to the driveway of one of the properties. 
Aviva declined the claim as it said storm damage to a gate is only covered where there is 
also damage to the building. 
Mr W didnt think this was fair  he said the pillar the gate is attached to was also damaged, 
which was part of the building. He gathered further information including a report about the 
damage and made a complaint to Aviva.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It maintained that damage by a storm to a gate would be 
excluded under the policy. It also said there was some uncertainty around when the damage 
took place and thought the damage to the stone pillar happened at a different time to the 
damage to the gate. So while the pillar damage alone may be covered, this would be less 
than the policy excess so no payment would be due. 
Mr W didnt think this was fair, he said the damaged had occurred at the same time. He also 
said Aviva had provided two different policies with different wording of the exclusion it was 
applying, which was confusing. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Ds complaint be upheld. She 
said that while the policy does exclude cover for storm damage to gates, unless the building 
is also damaged, the policy includes gates as part of the definition of a building. She said 
this meant the policy wording was ambiguous, so it wasnt fair for Aviva to rely on this 
exclusion to decline the claim. 
Mr W accepted our investigators opinion on behalf of D. Aviva didnt respond to the opinion 
but agreed for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, it is for the insured to prove that there is an insured peril 
 an event that is covered under the insurance policy. It is then for the insurer to either 
accept the claim or prove that an exclusion applies.
In this case Aviva has accepted that the damage being claimed for was caused by a storm, 
so it agrees there is an insured peril. However it says as the damage is to a gate, this would 
be excluded. I need to decide if it has acted fairly by applying the exclusion in the 
circumstances.
There has been some confusion about the relevant policy in this case. Aviva has provided 
two different documents that have slightly different policy wordings. One of these is dated 
2016 and the other 2019. As the incident being claimed for took place in December 2019, 
this would have been covered by the 2019 policy. So this is the document I have considered. 
Aviva has relied on the following exclusion to decline Ds claim:
(6) Damage to
(a) gates
(b) fences
(c) moveable property in the open by
(i)wind
(ii) rain, hail, sleet or snow
(iii) flood
(iv) dust.
unless there is also Damage to the Building insured occurring at the same time.
So I can see that damage to gates is excluded, unless there is also damage to the building 
at the same time. 
I have looked at the definition of building in the policy. It is defined as follows:
The building includes
c) outbuildings, roads, pavements, fences, gates, paths, drives, fixed signs, garden walls, 
patios, terraces, ornaments and statues, car parks, cess pits and septic tanks, oil tanks
So while I can see that gates are included as part of the list of exclusions, it is also included 
as part of the definition of a building.  
The policy states that this exclusion wont apply where there is damage to the building at the 
same time. And the policy defines the building to include gates. This is contradictory and 
ambiguous, as it both excludes and includes a part of the property. Due to this I dont think 
the policyholder would reasonably be able to conclude that the damage to the gate would be 
excluded when reading the policy document. And because of this I dont think its fair for 
Aviva to rely on this exclusion to decline Ds claim. I will therefore require Aviva to accept Ds 
claim for storm damage to the gate and pillar and settle it in line with the other policy terms 
and conditions.
Aviva has said that it considers the damage to the gate and the pillar to have happened on 
two separate occasions, caused by different storms. However it has provided no evidence to 
support this assertion. Mr W has made a detailed report including photos of the damage and 
comment from an expert. This concludes that the damage to the pillar was caused by the 
gate during the storm in December 2019. So Im satisfied that both items were damaged at 
the same time and therefore would form part of the same claim.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Ds complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
accept Ds claim for storm damage and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman