DRN-4491902
The complaint
Ms K complains Vauxhall Finance Limited plc (Vauxhall) supplied her with a car which she 
believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Ms K is being represented by her daughter Ms M but I will refer to Ms K throughout this 
decision as shes the agreement holder. 
What happened
In November 2022, Ms K entered into a 60 month conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
The cars cash price was over £8,000, it was over five years old and covered around 70,700 
miles. Ms K was required to pay monthly payments of around £110.
On the day of collecting the car, it broke down. A fault was found with the clutch and repairs 
were carried out under warranty in December 2022. Shortly thereafter, Ms K reported similar 
issues with the car. Another repair was carried out in January 2023 and the master cylinder 
was replaced. It was also reported the brake discs were worn and the front shock absorbers 
were split. 
Since the above repairs, Ms K has reported a number of different issues with the car 
including the below (but this isnt an exhaustive list):
 
- The electronic stability control (ESC) light is flashing on the dashboard;
- The car has stalled on multiple occasions;
- Scraping noises when braking;
- The battery needed to be replace.
The dealership agreed to cover the cost of the repairs to the clutch and the battery. 
Vauxhall said the fault with the clutch had been repaired and the brakes didnt require 
replacement so they wouldnt allow rejection. However they agreed to pay £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. The investigator 
concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply but he was satisfied it had been 
successfully repaired. In relation to the brake discs and battery, he said these were wear and 
tear items and given the age and mileage of the car, its to be expected it would need 
repairing or replacing sooner. For the other reported faults such as the ESC, he said there 
was insufficient evidence they were present or developing at supply.   
Ms K disagreed and maintained her position. She also commented the car was advertised at 
around 69,500 miles but when it was collected, it had travelled over 70,700 miles. 
Since the investigators opinion, Ms K has reported further issues with the car such as it 
loses power when driving and she has provided photos of the issue with the ESC.
In November 2023, I issued a provisional decision which outlined my intentions to uphold the 
complaint, I said:
Ms K was supplied with a used car that was over five years old and had travelled over 
70,700 miles. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts may already have suffered 
notable wear and tear and may need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which 
wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied.
 
Almost immediately following the cars collection, Ms K experienced a fault with the clutch. 
Ive seen job cards showing repairs were carried out in December 2022 and the master 
cylinder also needed to be replaced. Based on this evidence, its clear there was a fault with 
the clutch. Given it presented itself of the day of collection, I find its fair to say the fault was 
present at the point of supply. I dont believe a reasonable person would expect to 
experience such issues immediately upon acquiring the car. Therefore, I dont find the car 
was of satisfactory quality meaning there was a breach of contract. 
A consumer has 30 days to reject a car thats of unsatisfactory quality (short term right to 
reject). However in this case, I cant see Ms K asked to reject the car, instead it appears she 
accepted the repair. The repair to the clutch was carried out in a reasonable time frame and 
under warranty at no cost to her. She was also provided with a courtesy car to keep her 
mobile and £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. I consider that to be a fair 
course of action.  
However around a month later (January 2023), the same fault with the clutch was reported. 
Again, the master cylinder was replaced. I wouldnt expect this needed to be replaced again 
so soon after the initial repair. To my mind, that would suggest the previous repair (around a 
month prior) had failed. I must stress, the CRA allows one opportunity to repair the car and 
should further faults occur the consumer may request rejection. 
Thereafter, around February 2023, Ms K reported several other issues with the car such as 
the ESC engine light flashing on the dashboard, the car keeps stalling and a scraping noise 
when braking. According to her when the car was taken to a third party garage, they couldnt 
find the fault with the ESC but advised her to take pictures or videos when it happened. Ms K 
has since provided photos of the ESC warning light and the collision system being 
unavailable. A copy of the same has been sent to Vauxhall for their consideration. However 
to date, they havent provided any comments on this.
Based on these photos and when the ESC fault was first reported (within six months of 
acquiring the car), on balance I find there is a fault with the ESC, albeit an intermittent one 
and one with the collision system. The photos demonstrate Ms K has only covered around 
500 miles since acquiring the car. I consider this to be relatively low and it supports her 
claims that  shes lost faith and confidence in it. Overall, I dont find the car was reasonably 
durable which is one of the considerations when considering satisfactory quality. 
More recently, Ms K has also told our service shes experiencing loss of power when driving 
the car, saying at times despite accelerating it wont go over 15mph. However I havent been 
provided with sufficient evidence about the issue.
Given what has happened so far including the numerous repairs attempts and the above 
further faults, I can see why Ms K has lost confidence in the car. She has made it clear to 
our service and to Vauxhall that she wants to reject it and I intend to say Vauxhall should 
allow her to do so. I note Vauxhalls comments that rejection is down to the dealership 
however I would like to remind them of their responsibilities as the supplier of the car. To put things right, Vauxhall should end the agreement, collect the car and refund the 
deposit. I wont be asking Vauxhall to refund the monthly payments as its fair Ms K pays for 
use of the car. However to reflect the impaired use of it, I intend to say Vauxhall should 
refund 5% of the monthly instalments paid.
Ms K said she has incurred costs as a result of being supplied with a faulty car, this includes 
the cost of replacing the battery. If this cost hasnt already been refunded to her, Vauxhall 
should do so. If there are any other reasonable costs Ms K would like me to consider which 
she believes should be refunded, I invite her to provide documentary evidence. Upon 
receiving the same, I will decide whether Vauxhall should compensate her. 
Vauxhall has already agreed to pay £250 compensation but given the further trouble and 
upset caused as result of more faults, I find they should increase the compensation by £100, 
meaning a total of £350 compensation.
In summary, I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply due to the fault with the 
clutch. Although repairs were carried out, evidence has been provided to show there are 
further issues including a fault with the ESC and collision system which I also find made the 
car not of satisfactory quality. Therefore the most fair resolution is for Vauxhall to allow 
rejection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K accepted the provisional decision. Vauxhall provided no further comment. On the basis 
I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I still consider my 
findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is the 
same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
To put things right, Vauxhall Finance Limited plc must:
- End the agreement with nothing further for Ms K to pay;
- Collect the car at no cost to her;
- Refund the deposit;
- Refund 5% of the monthly instalments paid to reflect the impaired use of the car;
- Refund any reasonable costs incurred by Ms K as a result of being supplied with a 
faulty car (subject to evidence provided) e.g. the cost of the replacement of the 
battery; 
- Pay a total of £350 compensation for the trouble and upset paid (as outlined above).
* Vauxhall Finance should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above refunds 
calculated from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
** If Vauxhall Finance Limited plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms K how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriateUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman