DRN-3742661
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to 
a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this may have caused him a financial loss.
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all their comments as 
those of Mr M.
What happened
Mr M was introduced to Portal in 2014 by another business who Ill refer to as Firm P. 
Mr M has since told our Service that he was approached, although he couldnt recall how, 
and he hadnt sought out a pension review. Mr M has said hed never considered 
transferring his pension prior to speaking with Portal.
Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. At the time the advice was given by Portal, Mr M was 49 years old, single and 
had a 14 year old dependent child. He was living in a rental property and was paying £100 
towards his rent with housing benefits covering the rest. He was unemployed and in receipt 
of benefits totalling £1,595 a month. Portal conducted a review of Mr Ms outgoings and 
concluded that he had £1,080 disposable monthly income. Mr M told Portal he wasnt sure 
how much he had in savings and identified no other assets. Mr M also said he had a £70 
overdraft. Mr M has since told our service he held around £5,000 in savings. When asked 
about his plans and any funding for his retirement Mr Ms recorded response in the fact find 
was not sure.
Mr M held retained benefits in an OPS, which had offered a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value 
(CETV) of £57,280.57 at the time of advice. This was projected to provide an annual pension 
of £3,501 alongside a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum of £13,899 at the age of 65. It had 
death benefits of an annual spousal pension of 66.67%. If death occurred before retirement, 
a lump sum of £8,700 would also be payable.
Portals suitability report recorded Mr Ms main stated objectives as: 
Would like earlier retirement age to scheme normal retirement age
Lifetime Hurdle Rate (LHR) is acceptable
Projected future returns are acceptable
Willing to take more risk
Does not want an escalating annuity
Death benefits (for his son)
Future drawdown (TFC at age 55)
Specific investment (move away from equity backed)
It also said that Mr M currently believed he was likely to retire at age 60 and that his attitude 
to risk (ATR) was balanced. 
Portal recommended that Mr M transfer his OPS benefits into a new SIPP. It advised the 
portfolio should include the following assets:
Dimensional Multi Factor Equity Fund 72.5%
Dimensional Global Short-Dated Bond Fund 15%
Henderson UK Property Unit Trust 7.5%
Cash 5%
Mr M accepted the recommendation and says the transfer was made in line with Portals 
advice in September 2015. By this time the CETV had increased to £81,791.93.
In May 2020 Mr M complained to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
that hed lost out on guaranteed benefits as a result of the transfer. Mr M said he was an 
inexperienced investor who didnt understand the implications of the recommendation or the 
risks involved. He said he wouldnt have transferred had he understood this. Mr M also said 
the funds Portal invested in were too high risk for him.
Portal didnt uphold the complaint. It noted Mr M had told its representative over the phone 
that maximising death benefits for his dependent child was important to him, and hed rated 
this nine out of ten in importance. It highlighted that it was not possible for Mr M to leave his 
benefits within the DB scheme to anyone other than a spouse.
It said it had carried out the necessary analysis of Mr Ms pension benefits. It explained that 
because Mr M was not looking to purchase an annuity at retirement age Portal had relied on 
the lifetime hurdle rate (LHR), rather than the critical yield, when assessing whether Mr M 
was likely to match the DB scheme benefits. It felt the LHR of 3.43% was achievable and 
could be improved on with the plan it recommended. In support of this it noted Mr Ms fund 
had achieved a compound annual growth rate of 6.14% since inception which was higher 
than the LHR. 
Portal said the implications of the recommendation were explained clearly to Mr M in a 
phone call in June 2014 and in the suitability report Mr M was later sent. Mr M had also 
signed a document summarising the benefits hed be giving up. It said it hadnt 
recommended high risk funds and had recommended a portfolio in line with Mr Ms ATR. 
Mr M remained unhappy and so asked our Service to look into his concerns. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. They said the advice to transfer wasnt suitable and 
they considered Mr M would likely have remained in his OPS but for the unsuitable advice. 
Their concerns included:
That the opportunities to improve on Mr Ms benefits was limited. 
That the critical yield shouldnt have been dismissed in favour of the hurdle rate. 
And the latter was not adequately explained to Mr M.
That Mr Ms ATR was not balanced and he was an inexperienced retail investor. 
The suitability report did highlight the risks of the transfer but the overall 
recommendation was to proceed in spite of these. 
Whilst death benefits were listed as an important motivation for the transfer, the 
purpose of his pension was to provide for his retirement. And Mr M had no health 
issues such that it was likely he wouldnt benefit from his scheme. No alternative 
options for such provision appear to have been explored with Mr M. 
There is no reason recorded as to why Mr M needed flexibility to access TFC at aged 
55 or wanted the flexibility to retire early. 
Many of the Mr Ms listed objectives were not actually objectives.  They recommended Portal, in so far as is possible, put Mr M back into the position he would 
have been in had suitable advice been given.
Portal didnt accept these findings and believed the advice to recommend was justified as 
Mr M had confirmed he preferred the idea of a drawdown pension and so it had tailored its 
investment advice to his likely situation in retirement. This is why it had focused on the LHR 
and it noted that the likely investment return it had calculated was 6.13%. So, it felt there 
was a good change of improving the benefits Mr M would receive. It said Mr M had sufficient 
capacity for loss for the investment risk level it recommended. 
As the parties couldnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portal's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr M was 49 at the time of the advice and Portal said he was likely to retire at 60. Its not 
clear where Portal got this retirement age from as the fact find notes that Mr M was not sure 
when he wanted to retire. Regardless, the critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefits at 
age 60 wasnt recorded on either of the two Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) reports that 
Portal has provided our service (one was completed before the advice and one before the 
transfer). The TVAS completed before the advice, which the suitability report referred to, 
only recorded the figures in relation to retiring at age 65. This is despite Portals suitability 
report telling Mr M the advice was centred around him retiring at age 60. I think this seriously 
undermines the credibility of the advice it gave Mr M as its likely the critical yield Mr M would 
need to have achieved at age 60 would have been higher as his fund would have had to pay 
an income for longer. Something I think Portal ought to have known and considered as part 
of the advice it gave. So I think this would have been misleading for Mr M.
And even when I do take into account the critical yield required to match Mr Ms benefit at 
age 65, at the time of advice this was recorded at 7.4% if he took a full pension. When the 
transfer value was recalculated this brought the critical yield down to 6.2% for a full pension 
or 5.8% if he took TFC and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate at the time of advice was 5.5% per year for 15 years to 
retirement. The relevant discount rate closest to when the transfer happened was 4.5% per 
year for 14 years until retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per 
year.
Taking this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate and 
Mr Ms reported balanced ATR there would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees 
available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits 
outside the scheme. I appreciate the revised critical yield with TFC in the second TVAS was 
broadly in line with the relevant discount rate, but I still dont think it would have been worth 
Mr M giving up guaranteed benefits for the same level of returns. And Id also note that these 
figures relate to Mr M retiring at age 65, when the advice was based around Mr M retiring at 
age 60. The discount rate at the time of the transfer was 4.1% for 9 years to retirement, 
which, along with the regulators middle projection rate, was likely to be significantly less 
than the critical yield at age 60. So, I think the information available to Portal at that time was 
that Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
I note Mr M has said his ATR was actually lower. However, Im satisfied that isnt relevant to 
my assessment of whether Mr M was likely to receive comparable benefits, as investments 
in line with a lower ATR would have further decreased the likelihood of his investments 
achieving the critical yield.  
Portal based its recommendation was based on the lifetime hurdle rate of 4.6% instead of 
the critical yield, saying this was appropriate for Mr M as hed agreed that for planning 
purposes it could assume his fund would remain in a drawdown plan. Having reviewed the two TVAS reports Portal has sent our service, Id note none appear to provide the LHR 
figure Portal relied on when it gave its advice. However, I dont think this is of relevance here 
as I dont think the LHR was the appropriate figure to rely on in any event. I say this noting 
that its the critical yield that provides a like for like benefits comparison. 
In addition, Portal has not offered any reason as to why Mr M did not want to secure a 
guaranteed income in retirement. I dont think Mr Ms preferences here were explored in any 
meaningful sense. The suitability report said You agreed with us that for planning purposes 
we would assume your pension fund would remain invested in an income drawdown plan, 
although we explained that you could of course convert to an annuity if this becomes a more 
suitable option. So, it seems Mr M hadnt discounted an annuity. Given this, it ought to have 
known that basing its advice on LHRs could have led Mr M to understand he could gain 
greater returns from the transfer than if he had opted for a guaranteed income instead.
Portal has also said that it felt projected returns of 6.13% were likely under the scheme it 
recommended. The suitability report said this was based on performance data over a 10 
year period. Whilst I havent been provided with supporting evidence for this, even if I had, 
Portal knows past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in 
the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long 
period of time.
If I consider financial viability alone, then I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
Mr Ms best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Death Benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. I havent actually been provided with 
evidence that a death benefit wasnt payable to Mr Ms son within Mr Ms DB scheme and Id 
note most plans have discretion to pay a dependants pension in lieu of a spousal pension. 
So, Im not convinced on the evidence available that the death benefits Mr M already had in 
place werent suitable. But even if I were, I still dont think this benefit was sufficient to justify 
a transfer.
I recognise that the lump sum death benefits on offer through a SIPP was likely an attractive 
feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provision. So 
however important it was for Mr M to maximise death benefits at that time, a pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal sufficiently 
explored to what extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits, aside from asking him a yes or no question about whether hed 
reduce his own benefits for this purpose. Furthermore, while transferring the pension 
potentially provided higher death benefits, this was wholly dependent on investment returns. 
And if Mr M lived a long life, there may have been very little to pass on in the event of his 
death.
Ultimately, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his child, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Portal 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. But theres no evidence that it did this.Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I say this noting Mr M had no other 
retirement provision in place aside from his state pension. I also dont think that insurance 
was properly explored as an alternative. So, I dont think Portal should have encouraged 
Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a SIPP over his security in 
retirement.
Flexibility
Ive seen no evidence to persuade me that Mr M required flexibility in retirement - I dont 
think he had a genuine need to access his TFC at 55 or retire earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age. Ill explain why.
Mr M was only 49 at the time of the advice, and it would appear he didnt have any concrete 
retirement plans. The fact find shows Mr M was asked about his chosen retirement age and 
his plans/funding for retirement and his response to both questions was not sure. It is also 
Mr Ms account that he was approached by the introductory business and hadnt sought out 
pension advice. So, it would seem retirement planning wasnt something Mr M had given 
much consideration to at the time of advice. 
Whilst the report said Mr M would likely retire at age 60, its not clear where Portal got this 
information from, so I dont find this persuasive. The suitability report also said: you 
expressed an opinion that being able to draw income from age 60 onwards would be a 
useful benefit and the flexibility to do so was important to you. Whilst many consumers 
might think it would be useful to be able to retire at aged 60 rather than 65, this doesnt 
persuade me Mr M had a genuine need to do so. Theres also no evidence Portal explored 
Mr Ms plans for retirement or what his income needs would be at that time. I can see no 
justification within the evidence as to why Portal said flexibility in retirement was important to 
Mr M.
Mr M had six years before he could think about accessing his pension. So, in these 
circumstances, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr M to give up his 
guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement were going to be. 
If Mr M later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme he could have done so closer to 
retirement. 
Investment control
Portals suitability report also recorded that Mr M wanted to move away from equity backed 
investments. It said Mr M would prefer to have ownership and personal control of his 
pension benefits. 
However, there is no further evidence indicating where this objective came from or why 
moving into a SIPP with 72.5% of the portfolio being invested in an equity fund would 
achieve this.
Mr M has said he was an inexperienced investor and Ive seen no evidence to the contrary 
aside from the suitability report itself. I think its of relevance Portal hasnt disputed Mr Ms 
account of his investment experience in response to his complaint. And I also havent seen 
any evidence Mr M took personal control of his investments following the transfer as Portal 
suggested he wanted to do. So, Im not persuaded this was a genuine aim of Mr M in the 
circumstances. Rather, it appears to have been a consequence of transferring his pension.
SummaryI dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But Portal wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr M shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme as the potential increase in death benefits werent worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Portal shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Portal's 
advice. But having done so Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring out 
of the DB scheme, against advice. I say this because Mr M appears to have been an 
inexperienced investor with either a low or medium ATR (this isnt agreed upon by the 
parties) and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if Portal 
had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining 
why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about his death benefits were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Portal had 
explored the option of life assurance and had explained that Mr M could meet this objective 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, 
I dont think Mr M would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. 
Mr M has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired but he has told us he plans to do so at aged 60 and 
plans to take his benefits then. So, compensation should be based on him retiring at age 60.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
Portal pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal to 
pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman