DRN-2881282
The complaint
Miss D complains about Revolut Ltds actions in relation to a scam in which she lost over 
£4,000.
What happened
The background to this case is well known to both parties, so Ill just summarise it here.
In January 20201, Miss D received an automated call directing her to press 1 to accept a 
call from the police, or else face arrest. She was put through to someone who identified 
themselves as a police offer, and provided their badge number. They also knew her name 
address. Unfortunately, they were a scammer. 
The scammer said they were calling Miss D as her tax was overdue. Shed started her tax 
return the previous day, but hadnt finished it. She said she thought she had more time, but 
the scammer told her she didnt. They sent her a notice, allegedly from the Royal Courts of 
Justice saying that criminal action was being taken against her and there was a warrant for 
her arrest due to non-payment. And that is who the phone number appeared to relate to  it 
had been spoofed to appear legitimate. 
Miss D says that, as a foreign national, she wasnt very familiar with the UK tax system. She 
thought she must have done something wrong, and that shed be arrested and convicted if 
she didnt make payment as instructed. Within half an hour, she made five transfers totalling 
£4,339 to three accounts. This left only £15.05 in her Revolut account. The scammer tried to 
pressure her into transferring more, prompting her to reach out to a friend to ask for money. 
He queried whether it could be a scam. She still thought it was a legitimate, but her friend 
was able to show her where the money was going and help her understand why it might be a 
scam. She ended the call and tried to cancel the payments  but theyd already gone 
through. She reported the scam to Revolut and the police. 
Revolut tried unsuccessfully to recall the payments. It said it wouldnt refund Miss Ds loss as 
shed authorised the payments despite the warnings it had sent her that the transactions 
were highly suspicious.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Miss D referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
thought Revolut should refund her loss, with interest, and pay £150 compensation. Given 
that it identified the payments as suspicious, he didnt think it had intervened appropriately. 
Had it done so, he thought this would likely have prevented the loss.
Revolut doesnt agree. It says its common knowledge that HMRC doesnt call people. It also 
argues that, had it intervened further, Miss D would still have made the payments out of fear. 
Our investigator has reiterated that he doesnt think Miss D is partly to blame for what 
happened  and does think further intervention would have made a difference. As no 
agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
I accept the transactions were authorised payments, even though Miss D was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security credentials to request the payments. So, although 
she didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss D is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My understanding is that Revolut identified the first transfer (and some others) as suspicious. 
I consider that reasonable. I say this because this was a series of relatively large payments, 
utilising over 99% of Miss Ds funds, made in quick succession to several new payees. 
These are common indicators of fraud or scams. So what Ive gone on to consider is 
whether Revolut did enough in response to the risk it identified. 
Did Revolut respond appropriately to the risk of financial harm from fraud that it identified?
Revolut has explained that it blocked the first payment (and some of the subsequent 
payments) and displayed a message which said:
Review transfer
Our systems have identified your transaction as highly suspicious. We declined it to 
protect you.
If you decide to make the payment again anyway, you can, and we wont decline it. 
As we have warned you this payment is highly suspicious and to not make the 
payment, if the person you pay turns out to be a fraudster, you may lose all you your 
money and never get it back.
You can learn more about how to assess this payment and protect yourself from this 
link: https://takefive-stopfraud.org.uk/
Miss D says she doesnt recall this, but she would have needed to click OK to proceed to 
make the payments. Once shed done that, no further payments to that particular payee 
were blocked. Revolut considers this response sufficient in the circumstances. But as a matter of good 
industry practice, I think it ought fairly and reasonably to have done more. While I appreciate 
that banks are generally expected follow payment instructions, that isnt an unfettered duty. 
Reasonable checks and balances are also required as part of the broad regulatory 
landscape to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial 
harm. I accept theres a limit to what a bank can reasonably do; and I still expect consumers 
to take responsibility for their own decisions  and possibly bear some of the loss if there is 
clear evidence of blame on their own part (see below). But in this case, Im conscious that 
Revolut had already disrupted the payment journey by blocking the payment. And Im not 
persuaded that the subsequent action it took was enough to meet its obligations to protect its 
customer from financial harm from fraud. 
I appreciate that Revolut warned Miss D that it considered the transactions to be highly 
suspicious. But an important feature of the type of scam Miss D fell victim to is that the 
consumer is induced to make the payments themselves, and that theyre unaware of the 
scam. That affects the impact of a warning like the one Revolut used. It didnt give any 
further information about why the payments appeared suspicious  or any information about 
the type of scam Miss D was at risk from (or really any scams). And Revolut allowed her to 
re-make each blocked transaction immediately afterwards, whilst she was still under the 
influence of the scammers coaching her through the process, without knowing anything 
more about the purpose of the payments or the circumstances surrounding them. 
In the circumstances, I think Revolut should have done more. For example, after blocking 
the payments, it would have been more appropriate to contact Miss D, or require her to get 
in touch, so it could make further enquiries before deciding how to proceed. 
Would appropriate intervention have affected Miss Ds loss?
It doesnt appear that Miss D was given a cover story for these payments. So if asked by 
Revolut, I think she would have explained that shed been called by the police and told to 
make immediate tax payments, and that shed be arrested if she didnt. I would then have 
expected Revolut, which would have more awareness of common scams than Miss D, to 
have realised this was a scam. As the financial professional in this situation, I consider it 
likely that, if it had explained its concerns to Miss D, this would have broken the spell  as 
happened when her friend set out to her why it didnt seem legitimate. So, if Revolut had 
responded appropriately to the risk it identified from the first transfer, I think that would likely 
have revealed the scam and prevented the loss. I therefore think it should refund the 
transactions and pay interest for the loss of use of those funds.  
Should Miss D hold some responsibility for her loss?
Ive considered whether Miss D should hold some responsibility for her loss by way of 
contributory negligence. I think the unfortunate timing of her having started her tax return the 
previous day made it seem more likely that HMRC would be contacting her. Im also 
conscious that, as a foreign national, Miss D wasnt as familiar and confident about HMRCs 
process. I think a reasonable person, in the circumstance of facing the threat of legal action 
for unpaid tax, in a foreign country, might be similarly persuaded that the call was legitimate. 
Particularly bearing in mind the social engineering and pressure tactics (such as the threat of 
arrest) used in the call to make it more difficult for her to identify and reflect on any warning 
signs. Whilst she mentioned feeling suspicious towards the end, my understanding from 
her contact with us is that she felt pressured  but was still under the spell of the scam and 
persuaded it was legitimate due to the tactics used by the scammers. Her chat with Revolut 
immediately afterwards also mentions that she was suspicious due to being asked to get 
more money from a friend  and no further payments were made from that point.  For the reasons Ive set out above, I also dont think the warning  with no details about why 
the payments were suspicious or about the scam  would have reasonably alerted Miss D to 
the risk. Considering her circumstances and the tactics of the scammers, I consider it 
reasonable that she was still persuaded that the payments were legitimate. In all the 
circumstances, I dont think there was contributory negligence here. Miss D was simply a 
victim of a sophisticated scam, which her circumstances made her vulnerable to, and wasnt 
partly to blame for what happened.
Distress and inconvenience
As well as the financial loss Revolut failed to prevent, I think its handling of her fraud claim 
caused her avoidable distress and inconvenience. Im mindful it was the scammers, rather 
than Revolut, who put Miss D in this difficult and upsetting position in the first place. That 
said, Ive found that Revolut could have done more to prevent the scam from going ahead  
which would have reduced the stress and financial pressure on Miss D. I can also see she 
found it difficult to deal with Revolut during the fraud claim. She efficiently compiled all the 
relevant information she was asked for, and was kept waiting for responses. Its clear from 
her contact with Revolut that this was difficult and upsetting for her. So, in the 
circumstances, I consider it fair and reasonable that Revolut should pay Miss D £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund the £4,339 Miss D transferred to the scammers, less any funds recovered;
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the payments left the account to 
the date of settlement; and 
Pay £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman