DRN-2860684
The complaint
Mr H complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as Lloyds Bank Direct 
Investments (HSDL) delayed the transfer of his Stocks and Shares Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) to another provider. Mr H says this caused him a financial loss which he 
would like refunded.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr H called HSDL and spoke to a member of staff about transferring his Stocks 
and Shares ISA to another provider. HSDL advised that a transfer was possible, there would 
be no fees incurred and it would take up to 10 working days. 
Following this, Mr H put in a request to transfer his ISA which was received by HSDL in June 
2020.
Mr H called HSDL on 14 July 2020, he was concerned that the transfer hadnt gone through 
and his money was depreciating quite quickly due to the volatility of the market. He said he 
had lost almost £11,000. He couldnt access his account online and he was told once funds 
had left his account, he would be without access for up to 48 hours. 
During this call Mr H asked HSDL if the transfer had been processed and if it was possible to 
now cancel the transfer. HSDL explained Mr Hs options and so Mr H decided to cancel the 
transfer and make a complaint.
HSDL considered Mr Hs concerns, in short it said it hadnt done anything wrong and there 
hadnt been a breach of its customer agreement. But it said it did mis-inform Mr H in May 
2020 and it shouldnt have said the process would take 10 working days. For this, it offered 
£50.00 compensation.  
Unhappy with its response, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into this and didnt think HSDL needed to do anything more to put things 
right. She said she didnt think HSDL caused Mr H a financial loss and the offer of £50.00 
was enough to compensate Mr H for the service he received. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr H, but Ill explain why. 
Mr H has said he was initially told the transfer would take 10 working days to complete. 
Having listened to the call in May 2020 I dont dispute that HSDL incorrectly gave Mr H this 
information. So, what I must now think about is whether Mr H was informed of the correct 
timescales and, if he wouldve done anything differently had he been given the correct 
information from the outset. 
HSDL wrote to Mr H on 23 June 2020 informing him that the process of transferring UK 
securities will take 2-3 weeks. Having seen a copy of this letter and evidence that it was sent 
I can see Mr H wouldve been informed of the correct timescale to complete the transfer. I 
havent been given any reasons to consider as to why Mr H wouldnt have received this 
letter. Ive also listened to several phone calls between Mr H and HSDL, during which Mr H 
said he was aware the process could take around four weeks. 
So, although there was clearly a mistake at the outset, I can see Mr H was very soon after 
given the correct timescales after his conversation in May 2020. By his own submission, 
Mr H was aware the overall process would take longer than 10 working days. For this 
reason, I think the offer of £50.00 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
In June 2020 Mr Hs account was restricted, this was a result of HSDL receiving the request 
to transfer Mr Hs ISA account. Mr H has said he was told he would be without online access 
for 24-48 hours which was not the case. Because of this Mr H said he was restricted in 
managing his account. 
Ive thought about this but unfortunately, I dont have sufficient evidence to find that HSDL 
did inform Mr H he would be without online access for up to 48 hours. This information was 
not communicated to Mr H in correspondence I have seen or during phone calls I have 
listened to. 
HSDL has said the reason it places a restriction on its customers account is to prevent 
further delays during the transfer process. If a customer was to trade during the transfer 
window it would need to send out new valuations and the process would start from the 
beginning each time this happened. HSDL has also said that Mr H had the option to trade 
over the phone. 
Whilst I appreciate it wouldve been inconvenient for Mr H not having access to his account 
online, I am satisfied he had alternative options which included cancelling the transfer and 
selling his shares at any point if he was concerned about the price. For this reason, I dont 
think HSDL has done anything wrong in placing the restriction on Mr Hs online access. 
I understand Mr H was initially told in May 2020 that there would be no fee due for the ISA 
transfer to complete. But as above, its accepted that Mr H was given incorrect information 
during this call. Following this, Mr H was sent a letter dated 23 June 2020 which explained 
an administration fee of £6.67 was due. During a call with HSDL Mr H offered to pay this fee 
over the phone with the view to speeding things up. But the advisor explained it would be 
quicker to take the fee directly from Mr Hs account. I can see this was taken on 8 July 2020 
which was within the 10-working day timeframe given by HSDL. I cant see HSDL delayed 
the transfer process by obtaining the fee. 
Overall, I think the crux of Mr Hs complaint relates to the delays in transferring his ISA 
account from HSDL to another provider. And because of this Mr H has said he suffered a 
financial loss of just under £11,000. I have thought about this carefully and I appreciate this 
wouldve caused Mr H distress. 
HSDL initially received Mr Hs instruction to transfer his account on 22 June 2020 which was 
logged the following day. I understand Mr H has said he submitted his request much earlier, 
but I have relied on the evidence before me which shows when the transfer request was 
logged by HSDL. Its from this point that I think the timescales are most relevant. Listening to the calls 
between Mr H and HSDL Im satisfied that HSDL did not confirm the transfer would complete 
any time sooner than the 2-3-week timescale. I accept that Mr H asked an advisor during 
one of his calls if it was possible to cancel the transfer. He was told it shouldnt take too long 
to complete, but I didnt hear Mr H instruct the advisor to cancel the transfer at this point. On 
balance I think Mr H still wanted the transfer to go ahead. 
On 14 July 2020 Mr H had another phone call with HSDL and it was during this call that Mr H 
confirmed he wanted to cancel his transfer. The advisor explained that it was waiting to hear 
from Mr Hs other provider to confirm acceptance which could take a further 2-3 weeks. I 
appreciate time was of the essence given that Mr Hs funds were depreciating but I dont 
think HSDL had done anything wrong - it had processed the transfer in line with its 
timescales. I appreciate Mr H wanted to know when it would complete but I accept HSDL 
couldnt provide an exact date, given that it was waiting to hear back from the other provider. 
Im persuaded that the loss of value of Mr Hs investment was not a result of the minor error 
made by HSDL at the outset. The market was falling and although the transfer was ongoing 
throughout that period, there was no point at which Mr H was prevented from cancelling and 
selling to mitigate his position.
Taking everything into account I dont think HSDLs actions were the cause of Mr Hs 
financial loss for the reasons Ive explained. It follows that I wont be asking HSDL to 
increase its offer of £50.00 compensation as I think it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as 
Lloyds Bank Direct Investments should pay Mr H £50.00 to settle this complaint as it is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman