DRN-3268550
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a packaged
bank account, called a Select account. Lloyds charged Mrs H and Mr H a monthly fee for the 
Select account and provided several potential benefits in return. They think that Lloyds 
should refund them all the fees they paid, plus interest. 
What happened 
I understand that Mrs H and Mr H have been customers of Lloyds for over forty years. Lloyds
does not have detailed records going back that far; however, it seems that initially Mrs H and
Mr H had a fee-free account for many years and that Lloyds probably sold them the Select
account during 2001. The Select account replaced their fee-free account and Lloyds charged
the monthly fee from then onwards. 
I previously sent Mrs H and Mr H and Lloyds a provisional decision on this complaint. In that 
provisional decision, I set out the background and circumstances of the case and I explained 
that I didnt think Lloyds had treated Mrs H and Mr H unfairly. I invited both parties to  
comment on my provisional decision, if they so wished before, I made a final decision. The 
time I allowed for these comments has now passed and neither party has sent me anything 
further to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs H and Mr Hs case. 
Ive looked into everything that Mrs H and Mr H and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the
complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below, but first, I would like to 
point out that because neither Mrs H and Mr H nor Lloyds have said anything further since 
my provisional decision, my findings are unchanged and much of what follows is identical to 
what I said in my provisional decision.
The main point of Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint is that they dont think they ever agreed to
switch accounts and Lloyds never told them about the cost or benefits of the Select account.
Lloyds changed the range of benefits the Select account provided from time-to-time (its
allowed to do this, providing it tells its customers what is happening) but at most times they
included insurance for mobile phones and use of a car breakdown service. Mrs H and Mr H
have specifically told us they didnt know about either of these benefits and incurred 
additional expense as a result.
With respect to the car breakdown service, Mrs H and Mr H have told us that they bought
their own breakdown cover when they purchased their cars, but it ran out in 2007 and when
their car broke down they paid £200 in call out charges and new membership fees. Theyve
said that if they had known the Select account provided a breakdown service they would
have used it.
With respect to the mobile phone insurance, theyve told us that they accidentally put (a
mobile phone) into the washing machine and claimed on (their) house insurance but had to
pay £100 excess. Again, they have pointed out that they would not have done this if they
had known that insurance from the Select account could have covered the claim.
Im sorry that Mrs H and Mr H may have incurred unnecessary expenses but the important
question here is whether Lloyd did anything wrong when it sold them the account or failed in
any of its other obligations to them.
As the events which gave rise to this complaint go back for so many years, neither party has
been able to send us any detailed records from the time. So, I cant be sure what happened.
Instead, Ive used the evidence which is available to decide what is most likely to have
occurred.
In 2001, one of the benefits of the Select account was that Lloyds usually charged
customers with such accounts lower interest rates on loans than it applied to customers with
fee-free accounts. It often referred to loans of this type as Select Loans. In some
circumstances, customers with these loans could save more in interest charges than they
paid in fees.
I have seen some internal notes from Lloyds computer system and these show that in 2001
Mrs H and Mr H applied for a loan and that Lloyds mentioned Select loans to them.
The notes are very brief and I cant tell if the discussion took place face-to-face, over the
phone or in some other way, but it seems highly likely that Lloyds brought up the Select
account in connection with a Select loan. It also seems highly likely that it would have
mentioned the other benefits of the Select account, which at that time included use of a car
breakdown service but not mobile phone insurance. After all, Lloyds was trying to sell the
Select account to Mrs H and Mr H, and it was in its own interest to tell them what they could
gain by buying it.
I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told Mrs H and Mr H about the cost of the Select
account. I dont think that it would have been credible for Lloyds to present the benefits as
free of charge, and the monthly fees would appear on Mrs H and Mr Hs bank statements so
I doubt Lloyds would have tried to hide them. And as Mrs H and Mr H had held a fee-free
account for many years, I also doubt that Lloyds denied them the option to keep that
account, albeit with a possibly more expensive loan.
After the discussion, it seems that Mrs H and Mr H went ahead with both the Select account
and the Select loan.
Mrs H and Mr H have also said that Mr H has various medical conditions which means he is
unlikely to be covered by any travel insurance the Select account provided. Im sorry to hear
about Mr Hs health problems and I hope his condition is not serious, but the Select account
does not provide travel insurance, so it is not a factor I can consider in this case.
As mentioned above, when Lloyds changed the benefits of the Select account, I would have
expected it to tell its customers what was happening. It usually did this by writing to them or
sending them various documents. I have seen quite a large sample of this paperwork. Lloyds
added mobile phone insurance to the benefits of the Select account in 2003 and as
examples, in late 2003, it sent its customers a booklet it called a benefits reminder and a
letter about the account.
The booklet opened with the strapline What are you paying £5 a month for. Amongst otherthings it then said:
Mobile phone insurance. Worth upto £65 a year and (a) breakdown service. Worth
up to £61 a year.
The booklet went on to give more details about these benefits.
And the opening sentences of the letter said:
 Your Select current account offers you all sorts of savings on banking services, 
breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. But are you making the most of them?
Im satisfied that Lloyds sent documents such as these to Mrs H and Mr H, so I think it met
its obligation to tell them about the benefits (and cost) of the Select account as they changed
over time.
So, in summary, although I cant tell for sure if Lloyds got everything right for Mrs H and Mr
H, I dont think it switched them to the Select account without their permission. I think they 
probably bought it mainly for potential savings on a loan. I also think that Lloyds told them 
about the cost and other benefits of the account and kept them up to date with changes it 
made. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint that 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a Select account. I am not going to tell it to give them any 
money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman