DRN-2688105
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as O have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly 
turned down their business interruption insurance complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H, directors of O, have brought the complaint on Os behalf. 
What happened
O held a business protection insurance policy with AXA. O claimed on its policy after it was 
impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
AXA turned down Os claim as they didnt think there was cover for the circumstances of the 
claim under the policy. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, O brought its complaint to our service. It thought a number of 
sections of the policy should provide cover. In particular, O said the list of covered diseases 
in the extension for disease includes Plague so any reasonable person would understand 
this to include any widespread disease and therefore include Covid-19. O also thought the 
extension for non-damage denial of access should provide cover. 
O also referred to the endorsement for loss of wedding and civil partnerships licence and 
extension clause for loss of liquor licence. O thought these applied as it wasnt able to 
trade. O also referred to parts of the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys test case, in particular that a policy should be considered in the way that it would 
be read by an ordinary policyholder. O said that where the policy is ambiguous it should be 
read in its favour.
AXA said it had considered the claim under both the original policy wording applicable to Os 
policy and a newer version of the policy to ensure O wasnt disadvantaged. However, neither 
policy provided cover for Os claim. They said the list of covered diseases didnt include 
Covid-19 and O didnt have the optional extension for non-damage denial of access as part 
of its cover. AXA didnt think Os inability to trade was due to a withdrawal or suspension of 
any of its licences. 
Our Investigator looked into Os complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for Os claim. 
O disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It said the list of covered diseases 
was set out to demonstrate the breadth of cover rather than as a defined list and that an 
email from the local authority was sufficient to demonstrate that its licence had been 
suspended. O explained the impact of the pandemic and AXAs refusal to pay its claim on its 
family business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Os business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Os claim. I have reviewed both the original and newer policies that AXA 
have considered the claim under in their entirety but will focus my decision on the parts 
referred to by O. 
Diseases
The extension for murder, suicide and disease provides cover for business interruption or 
interference resulting from a specified list of human infectious or human contagious diseases 
manifesting at Os premises or within a 25 mile radius. The list of diseases doesnt include 
Covid-19.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Os policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and 
therefore this doesnt provide cover for Os claim.
Ive thought about Os point that Plague should cover Covid-19 but I dont think it does. In 
the Governments updated list of notifiable diseases Covid-19 and Plague are listed 
separately, indicating that they are different diseases. The medical definition of Plague says 
that it is a specific disease caused by bacteria, whereas Covid-19 is a virus. Moreover, if the 
intention of the policy was for Plague to cover a pandemic or any widespread disease - then 
the policy wouldnt need to include many other diseases, meaning the list would be 
redundant. Therefore, even if someone at, or within 25 miles of, Os business premises had 
Covid-19, I dont think this extension provides cover for its claim.
Non-damage denial of access
This extension says:
We will cover you for any loss insured by this section resulting from interruption 
of or interference with the business where access to your premises is restricted 
or hindered for more than the franchise period shown in your schedule
arising directly from
1 the actions taken by the police or any other statutory body in response to a 
danger or disturbance at your premises or within a 1 mile radius of your 
premises
AXA said O doesnt have this optional cover on its policy. However, for completeness I will 
explain why I dont think this would provide cover for Os claim even if it did have it as part of 
the policy. When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of relevant law. I think the High 
Court judgment in the FCA test case is relevant to Os complaint as the court considered a 
similar extension to the one in Os policy and that part of the judgment wasnt appealed to 
the Supreme Court.
Paragraphs 436 to 437 of the judgement say: 
the government action in imposing the Regulations in response to the national 
pandemic cannot be said to be following a danger in the vicinity, in the sense of 
in the neighbourhood, of the insured premises. 
Even if there were a total closure of insured premises pursuant to the 
Regulations, there could only be cover if the insured could demonstrate that it 
was the risk of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the neighbourhood, of 
the insured premises, as opposed to in the country as a whole, which led to the 
action of the government in imposing the Regulations. It is highly unlikely that that 
could be demonstrated in any particular case
I see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to
provide cover in the event of a danger at Os premises or within a one mile radius of them. 
And I dont think the Governments response to the national pandemic was due to a danger 
at Os premises or within one mile of them as opposed to the country as a whole. Therefore, 
this extension wouldnt have covered for Os claim.
Loss of wedding and civil partnerships licence
This endorsement says:
We will cover You for loss of profit occurring during the Indemnity Period in the 
event that your licence which applies in respect of the Premises shown in Your 
schedule is revoked, forfeited suspended or withdrawn or closed as a result of a 
Licence or grant of approval being revoked.
The policy defines licence as:
The licence or grant of approval required to hold weddings or civil partnerships 
at Your Premises
Withdrawal is defined as:
Issue of a revocation or suspension or forfeiture or withdrawal of a Licence or 
grant of approval to hold weddings or civil partnerships
O has provided an extract of an email from the local authority which says they have 
decided to cancel all wedding ceremonies in light of the Governments announcement 
on 23 March 2020. While I accept that O ceremonies had been cancelled, I havent 
seen anything to indicate that Os licence was suspended. I dont think the 
Governments requirement of businesses to close led to a suspension in Os licence or 
grant of approval to hold weddings or civil partnerships. So, this endorsement doesnt 
provide cover.Loss of liquor licence
This extension clause says that it provides cover:
In the event of the licence for the sale of excisable liquors which has been 
granted in respect of the Premises being forfeited, suspended or withdrawn
While O was unable to trade, I havent seen anything to indicate that Os licence to sell 
liquor was suspended. I think O was unable to trade because of Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic rather than because its licence to sell liquor 
was suspended. So I dont think this extension covers its claim. 
O has referred to the Supreme Court judgment, in particular about how a policy should 
be interpreted. Ive noted Os points in relation to this, but I think the policy is clear in 
the cover thats provided and I dont think the policy would be considered ambiguous. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome O was hoping for given the impact that the pandemic 
has had on the family business. However, having considered the matter very carefully, 
I cant fairly require AXA to pay Os claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman