DRN-2508148
The complaint
Ms L says that a holiday club membership which she bought in 2008 was misrepresented to 
her. Because she used her credit card, issued by Nationwide Building Society, in part 
payment for the membership, she says that Nationwide is equally liable for the 
misrepresentation.   
What happened
In 2008 Ms L and Mr L were on holiday in Florida. Ms L has explained that they attended a 
timeshare presentation. As a result, they entered into a timeshare contract with a holiday 
company, S. Ms Ls Nationwide credit card was used to pay for part of the purchase price of 
over US$10,000. Nationwides records show a number of payments to S between June 2008 
and April 2009. Ms L has provided us with a copy of a pre-payment authority which is 
consistent with that.
Several years later, in around June 2018, Ms Ls representatives complained on her behalf 
to Nationwide, saying that the timeshare had been misrepresented in a number of ways and 
that Nationwide was liable for that misrepresentation under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. They said too that the circumstances here created an unfair relationship 
between Ms L and Nationwide under section 140A and 140B of the same act.
Nationwide says it cannot trace having received any complaint until about a year later. In 
response however it said that the events giving rise to the section 75 claim had occurred 
many years earlier and that the claim had therefore been made outside the time limits set 
out in the Limitation Act 1980.
Ms Ls representatives referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators 
considered it. He took the view that any misrepresentation claim was out of time under the 
Limitation Act and so it followed that Nationwide had not treated Ms L unfairly by declining to 
look into her claim. 
The investigator thought however that the claim under section 140A and 140B had been 
brought within the time limits in the Limitation Act. He did not consider however that the 
events described gave rise to an unfair relationship between Ms L and Nationwide.
Ms Ls representatives did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, where a customer who 
pays a supplier for goods or services with a credit card has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against that supplier, they have a like claim against the credit card 
provider. Financial limits apply, but I dont need to discuss those here.
Nationwide says however that the effect of the Limitation Act is that Ms L no longer has a 
valid claim under section 75 and that it is not therefore liable to repay Ms L.
The Limitation Act does not apply to complaints brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Its time limits are set out in the regulators Handbook, although in many cases the 
same limits will apply. Ms Ls complaint to this service is about Nationwides response to her 
section 75 claim; it is not the misrepresentation claim itself. Nationwides response to the 
section 75 claim was given in May 2019, and Ms B told us soon afterwards that she was 
unhappy with that response. Her primary complaint was therefore referred to the 
ombudsman within our own time limits.
Under the Limitation Act, however, an action (that is, court action) cannot generally be 
brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Different time 
limits apply for certain types of claim, but I am satisfied that six years is the relevant time 
limit here. Ms Ls cause of action for misrepresentation (assuming what she says about what 
happened is correct) accrued no later than the date on which she signed the contract and 
made payment. She signed the contract with S in March 2008 and the last payment was 
taken from her credit card in April 2009. But it was not until some nine years later (at the 
earliest) that she made a claim. 
Ms L has suggested too that she could bring a claim under sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act for an order declaring the credit agreement unfair to her. Such an order 
can only be made by a court. The time limit for such a claim generally runs from the date the 
finance agreement ended, although Ms Ls agreement with Nationwide was for running-
account credit  that is, it was used to finance many purchases, both before and after the 
timeshare. Nationwides records show that the credit card account was closed in April 2013. 
There is some dispute about exactly when Ms Ls representatives raised the complaint with 
Nationwide, but I am prepared to accept that it was made within six years of the account 
closure. I have therefore considered this part of the complaint. 
I think it likely that many customers felt pressured into buying timeshares and holiday club 
memberships from businesses such as S. It is likely that the meeting Ms L and Mr L 
attended ran for several hours and that any concerns of potential buyers were not fully 
addressed. The contract itself was complex and opaque. I think however that Ms L knew that 
she was buying a timeshare or holiday club arrangement and the price she was paying. 
The actual detail that Ms L has been able to provide of the meeting is quite limited  perhaps 
understandably after so long. Similarly, there is little detail about the claims made for the 
arrangement and how they gave rise to an unfair relationship with Nationwide. 
I note as well that the payment arrangements meant that payments were taken from Ms Ls 
credit card for several months after the date of the contract. She does not appear to have 
challenged them at the time, however, or for many years. There is therefore no evidence 
that, having signed the agreement, she or Mr L had second thoughts about it once they had 
left the meeting. 
Ms Ls representatives have suggested too that commission paid by S to Nationwide might 
give rise to an unfair relationship. I am not aware of any particular commission paid. 
Retailers generally have to pay a small percentage of any credit card transaction in order to 
be able to take card payments, and I have no reason to think any different arrangement 
applied here. I dont believe that the credit card fee would have made Ms Ls relationship 
with Nationwide an unfair one. 
Finally, Ms Ls representatives say that Nationwide did not carry out proper checks to ensure 
Ms L could afford the borrowing. They have provided no further information, but since the credit provided here was through a credit card account, any such assessment should have 
been carried out when Ms Ls credit limit was set or changed  not when she used the card 
to make a payment. Her representatives have not said what that limit was or when it was 
changed. 
Be that as it may, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint which is 
made more than six years after the event complained of or, if later, more than three years 
after the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have known they had cause for 
complaint. Ms Ls credit limit must have been set some time before the final payment in April 
2009. We cannot therefore consider that aspect of the complaint.    
For these reasons, my conclusions are, in summary:
We have no power to consider Ms Ls complaint about any credit assessment.
Because of the Limitation Act, it was reasonable of Nationwide to decline to investigate 
Ms Ls complaint about misrepresentation. 
I cannot fairly say that there was an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act.  
My final decision
My final decision is therefore that I do not require Nationwide Building Society to take any 
further steps to resolve Ms Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman