DRN-3648845
Complaint
Mr M complains that Lendable Ltd (Lendable) didnt do much due diligence to check that a 
loan was properly affordable for him before providing it.
Background
Lendable provided Mr M with a loan for £1,000.00 in November 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 23 monthly instalments of £60.19 and a final instalment of £59.26.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Lendable had told us. And she thought that 
Lendable hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Mr M with a loan for £1,000.00 in November 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 instalments of around £60. Lendable says it agreed to Mr Ms application 
after he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It 
says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this 
information showed Mr M could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr M has said he was already in a lot of debt and he has 
all the evidence to prove as such.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Lendable have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Lendable has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Lendable searches appear to show that Mr M had some existing credit but the 
loans that Mr M has referred to taking in the lead up to this application dont appear. This 
could well be because it takes some time for credit files to be updated. 
Furthermore, while the credit search shows that Mr M had had historic defaults, his debt total 
at the time of this application was reasonable in comparison to his income and they 
appeared to be relatively well managed. And as the defaults were historic, I dont think that 
the defaults themselves meant it was unreasonable for Lendable to lend to Mr M  especially 
bearing in mind how low the monthly repayments were in relation to Mr Ms declared income.
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Lendable obtained. Equally, I accept that if 
Lendable checks had gone into greater depth its possible it may have reached a different 
answer. 
But the key here is that Lendable was providing a loan with relatively low monthly payments 
over a relatively short period of time. Given the information gathered suggested the loan 
repayments were affordable and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think Lendable 
needed to do anything further.
As this is the case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Lendable treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr M. But I hope that Mr M will understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman