DRN-3136779
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the delay caused by British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) in 
having their radiator fixed under their Home Care policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H said they told BG about their faulty radiator in January 2021 and were told it 
would be a month before they'd send an engineer. In February 2021 they said BG advised 
the appointment would be delayed until March 2021. Shortly before the appointment, Mr and 
Mrs H said they were told it would be delayed until to 27 April 2021. They said when they 
checked it online it wasnt there, and they had to book an appointment for 14 May 2021. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to BG in January 2021 but said they werent given a reference 
number or response from BG. To resolve the complaint, they wanted to be compensated for 
their insurance payments between January and April 2021, as they believe they havent 
received the benefits that the policy was meant to provide during this period. 
BG apologised to Mr and Mrs H for its poor service and offered £50 compensation. Mr and 
Mrs H werent happy with this and brought their complaint to our service. BG then increased 
the compensation to £103, which Mr and Mrs H were prepared to accept. But BG cancelled 
the May appointment the day before it was due, and Mrs H said that she spoke to a 
supervisor at BG who said they couldnt send an engineer until 3 June 2021. 
BG offered Mr and Mrs H further compensation of £20 and £50 credit against a new heater, 
and £65 credit against their central heating policy for missing an annual service. Mr and Mrs 
H rejected BGs total offer of £234.48 as theyd lost faith in BG and its very poor service. 
They referred their complaint back to our service and requested a refund of premiums.
BG said we couldnt consider Mr and Mrs Hs complaint as it stems from activities provided 
to them as part of their central heating policy, which isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
Our investigator said we cant consider Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the annual service 
as this doesnt stem from a policy involving a regulated activity. He said we could consider 
their complaint about the central heating cover as it did stem from a regulated activity.  
Our investigator said theres no record of a booking in January 2021 but there were bookings 
from February to June 2021, and no annual service after December 2019. He said a refund 
of premiums wasnt fair as they were still able to make a claim and they had still benefitted 
from the policy. He thought BGs offer was fair as Mr and Mrs H had other heating and whilst 
it wasnt serviced within the period, he hadnt seen anything about a wider impact from this.  
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigator due to the significant inconvenience suffered 
and said theres nothing no reassure them the same thing wouldnt happen again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have two parts to their complaint, namely BGs failure to provide an annual 
service during 2020 and its delays, and poor service under their central heating cover for a 
broken radiator. Ive thought about whether or not we can consider these complaints.
Our service cant consider every complaint thats brought to us. We can only consider 
complaints that the DISP rules (set for us by the Financial Conduct Authority) allow us to. 
And those are complaints about certain activities carried out by regulated businesses.
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 sets these
activities out. They include effecting (arranging) and carrying out contracts of insurance. So, 
I need to decide whether the annual service was provided to Mrs H as part of a contract of 
insurance  and I dont think it was.
To reach this conclusion Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs policy documents for the period 
ending in September 2020. They held Kitchen Appliance Cover, Plumbing & Drains Cover, 
Home Electrical Cover, a 5-year warranty and Boiler Cover. And I cant see that any of these 
insurance policies provided an annual service. So, Ive not seen anything to suggest that an 
annual service was not provided when it should have been as a benefit from a contract of 
insurance. Without a link between an annual service and a regulated activity  I cant 
consider their concerns about an annual service not taking place before 30 September 2020.
Similarly, Mr and Mrs Hs central heating cover would need to be a regulated financial 
activity such as a contract of insurance. The Perimeter Guidance Rules (PERG) which can 
be found in the FCAs handbook, set out guidance on what constitutes a contract of 
insurance. The policy terms and conditions offer repairs to heat and hot water systems, 
including radiators in the event of a breakdown. 
I agree with the investigator that the repairs Mr and Mrs H sought to their radiator were 
available as part of a contract of insurance and I can consider this part of the complaint. The 
central heating care cover provides an annual service and so I can also consider Mr and Mrs 
Hs complaint about BGs failure to provide an annual service after the policy renewed in 
September 2020.
BG blamed industrial action and lockdown restrictions for the cancellations of its visits to Mr 
and Mrs H. I can understand the difficulties that BG faced but even with this in mind I think 
the service BG provided was unacceptable. Mr and Mrs H paid for a service and received 
very little value in return.
Mr and Mrs H have been inconvenienced by BG, and there have been delays in servicing 
their boiler. In short Mr and Mrs H havent received the service from BG that they paid for. 
And I can see that their attempts to resolve the problem and to speak to a manager at BG 
have been much frustrated. There have been several months of delays and times when the 
appointments were cancelled the day before they were due to take place.
Similarly, so far as the lack of service after September 2020 is concerned, Mr and Mrs H 
didnt receive proper service from BG. BG has apologised for this and paid compensation. 
Ive considered whether BGs offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances. Our service 
makes awards for the inconvenience suffered by consumers when businesses give poor 
service or make mistakes and we also consider the stress this may cause. Mr and Mrs H 
said that appointments and family matters had to be rearranged and I sympathise with them 
for this. However, I havent seen evidence of any more significant impact on them and so I 
think the compensation offered by BG is fair in their circumstances. I wouldnt tell BG to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs H have paid as they have had the benefit of the policy and 
could have made further claims if this had been necessary.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman