DRN-3709326
The complaint
Mr S complains about a car he purchased in part using his HSBC credit card. He says the
car has had various issues since he got it.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr S bought a new car to use as a taxi. The car cost £18,488.06. A family
member paid an initial deposit and then Mr S partially funded the purchase using his HSBC
credit card.
Mr S says the car developed issues. He says the dashboard shows the incorrect speed limit.
He says the parking sensors dont work properly, which resulted in the car being driven into
a wall. And he says the infotainment system resets when driving and any destination in the
sat nav is then lost.
Around June 2020 Mr S took the car to a local garage who Ill refer to as garage A, this
noted issues with the dash cam, the parking sensors and the infotainment screen. In July
2020 he took the car to another local garage, who Ill refer to as garage B, which noted
issues with the speedometer not showing the correct speed limit, the parking sensors and
the infotainment screen.
The manufacturer also commented on the car after it was seen at one of its dealers. This
letter isnt dated, but from connected correspondence I believe this was at some point
around August 2020.
The manufacturer said the infotainment system did have an intermittent fault, but it said after
inspection the car had been modified which may have caused the issues. It said it asked
Mr S to remove these modifications to test further, but he had refused. It said the parking
sensors were working as they should and the wall the car had hit was very low. And it said
there was no fault with the speedometer.
Mr S complained to HSBC and said he wished to make a claim under Section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
In January 2021 HSBC issued a final response. It said as this was the first time Mr S had
raised the issue, it didnt find it had made any error. HSBC then looked into things and in
March 2021 it issued a further final response. This explained that as another party had
already attempted to raise a S75 claim about this issue it couldnt pursue this for Mr S and
he would need to contact the retailer.
Mr S was unhappy with this and referred his complaint to our service. HSBC responded to
us and said Mr S didnt purchase the car and so there was no debtor-creditor-supplier
(DCS) link. Our investigator questioned this with HSBC. It looked into things again and said
it should not have declined the claim based on the DCS link as it had seen evidence Mr S
had bought the car. It instead said the S75 claim shouldve been rejected as there was no
evidence to suggest a breach of contract had occurred.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he was persuaded that the car
did have the issues Mr S described, but he said he thought the issues were caused by the
cars design rather than a fault. So, he said he didnt think there had been a breach of
contract.
The case was passed to me to decide. I sent Mr S and HSBC a provisional decision on 30 
August 2022. My findings from this decision were as follows:
S75 is relevant to this complaint. This explains, under certain circumstances, that the
borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
Firstly, I need to consider whether Mr S had a valid claim under S75.
HSBC initially said as another party had attempted a claim under S75 for this issue, Mr S
had no right to make a claim under S75. I disagree this was the case.
HSBC then said there wasnt a DCS link in this case, as it said Mr S didnt purchase the car.
It later said this wasnt the case. Having looked at things, Im satisfied a valid DCS link does
exist here. I say this as Ive seen a payment on Mr Ss credit card of £7,000 to the dealer
who supplied the car. Ive seen a vehicle order form for the car, in Mr Ss name. Ive seen
the V5, which is also in Mr Ss name. And Im satisfied Mr S took possession of the car for
his use.
Ive then considered the financial limits that apply to a valid S75 claim. Mr S needed to have
purchased a single item with a cash price of over £100 but no more than £30,000. I can see
from the vehicle order form that the cash price of the car was £18,488.06.
It follows this that Im satisfied Mr S had a valid claim under S75. So, I now need to consider
what HSBC shouldve done given this was the case.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations
and guidance. The Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 (SGSA) is relevant to this
complaint. This implied a term into the contract to supply the car that the car would be of
satisfactory quality. It explains goods are of satisfactory quality if they meet the standard
that a reasonable person would regard as satisfactory, taking account of any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In this case, I would consider relevant circumstances to include, amongst others, that the car
Mr S acquired was new, and cost nearly £20,000. So, I think a reasonable person would
have very high standards for its condition and would expect trouble free motoring for a
significant period.
If the car supplied to Mr S wasnt of satisfactory quality, then I would consider it a breach of
contract and so may consider HSBC needs to do something to put things right under S75.
Mr S has complained about various issues, which Ill address in turn. However, I think its
worth me briefly commenting on some of the evidence here before I do so.
Mr S has provided written evidence from garages A and B. I am not putting as much weight
on either testimony as I might otherwise have. I say this as neither garage has explained
what it investigated in any detail  for instance neither garage explains whether the car was
test driven or not, or what, if any, tests were carried out. Neither explains why the garages
reached the conclusions they did. And the testimony from garage A in particular contains
some factually incorrect information which makes me question its validity.Speed limit issue
Mr Ss car came equipped with a feature that displays road signs on the dashboard to the
driver. He complains that the car displays the wrong speed limit. He has provided photos
and videos that he says show this was the case.
Ive considered the testimony of the garages here. Garage A states that screen on the Dash
cam shows wrong speed limits. A dash cam is significantly different to the system
Mr S is complaining about.
Garage B said the speedometer does not show the accurate speed limit. Again, it is not the
speedometer that is in question here. Garage B also says the only way around the issue is
to connect a mobile phone to the screen to show the correct speed. But Im afraid I dont
understand this reasoning.
Thinking about the above, Im not persuaded by either garages findings here.
The manufacturer said we could not find fault with the speedometer  again Im not
persuaded by this as its possible it didnt investigate the correct issue.
From what I believe is the cars handbook online, I can see the system in question works, in
part, by a front facing camera reading the speed limit from road signs, and then displaying
this on the dash. The handbook says:
Do not rely solely upon the (system). (The system) is a system which supports the driver
by providing information, but it is not a replacement for a drivers own vision and awareness
Ive gone on to consider the videos and photos Mr S sent. The videos Mr S sent show a lorry
with a speed limit sticker on the back in front of the car - and this speed limit is being
displayed to the driver.
The handbook explains the system may not detect speed limits correctly when:
Stickers are attached to the rear of the preceding vehicle
Here, it appears the system is working as it should. I appreciate that this shows a limit of the
system  as it appears the camera is reading the speed limit from a sticker on a vehicle in
front rather than an official road sign. But, the handbook specifically explains this may
happen. So I dont think this is a fault.
Parking sensors
Mr S said the parking sensors do not work properly, which led to the car being driven into a
wall.
Garage A said:
Due to the front parking sensors range not being in performance (which caused the bump to
the wall)
the sensors have a design issue which cannot be repaired
Garage B said:the front parking sensors are faulty as the mechanism that detects range does not work
adequately
Ive noted neither garage has explained how this was tested, why they believe the sensors
werent working nor why they concluded this was the cause of the accident.
The manufacturer said:
There is no fault with the parking sensors, the damage caused to the front bumper was due
to the car being driven into a very low wall that the sensor would not have detected. We
have explained to the customer how the sensors work and we even took the car back to
where the incident occurred to show that the sensor would not go off because the wall was
too low.
Ive also looked at what I believe to be the handbook for the car online. This says:
The sensors detection areas and reaction times are limited. When moving forward or
reversing, check the areas surrounding the vehicle
The area directly under the bumpers is not detected. Thin posts or objects lower than the
sensor may not be detected when approached
The shape of the object may prevent the sensor from detecting it. Pay particular attention to
the following objects:
Low objects
Thinking about everything here, Im more persuaded by what the manufacturer has said than
the garages. Its testimony is much more detailed and it explains it has investigated both the
car itself and the location of the incident.
I accept the sensors didnt pick up the wall in question  but this seems to be due to a limit of
the system rather than a fault. The handbook explains the sensors wont pick up every
obstacle and says drivers still need to check any area when manoeuvring.
On balance, Im not persuaded there was a fault with the parking sensors. It follows Im not
persuaded there was a breach of contract here.
Infotainment system
Mr S complains that the infotainment system goes blank and the sat nav loses its
destination. Hes sent some photos that show a blank screen, and some that appear to show
connection issues.
Garages A and B both say there is an issue with the infotainment switching on and off. The
manufacturer said:
Yes the car did come back with an intermittent fault, but to begin with we couldnt fault it,
however we did undertake the recommended software update in the hope this would
resolve the said issue, but as far as the customer is concerned it didnt
various modifications fitments had been fitted to the car that may have been causing
these issues due to electrical interference of some sorts, so we asked the customer to get all
of these removed so we could retest the car fault reference technical again, but the customer
refused to do thisThinking about this, it doesnt seem in dispute that the infotainment system was suffering
from an intermittent fault. But I note the manufacturer doesnt appear to have tested it since
the software update. The crux of the matter appears to be whether this was an issue with the
system itself, or whether this was caused by something that was installed after Mr S got the
car. It doesnt seem unreasonable to me that the manufacturer wanted to test further. As this
wasnt done, I have very limited information here to go on.
Thinking about things in the round, I havent seen enough to persuade me here that the
system has an underlying fault with it.
Conclusions
As explained above, I dont think HSBC initially handled Mr Ss claim under S75 correctly.
But, having considered everything, I havent seen enough to make me think its likely there
has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. So, I dont think HSBC needs to
take any further action.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence.
HSBC didnt respond. Mr S got in touch and said he disagreed with my findings. He said 
hed provided clear evidence via photos, videos and reports. He sent some further photos 
and a video of the dashboard showing a speed limit. And he said I should take the car 
myself to see the issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about all of the information on this case again, along with what Mr S said in 
response to my provisional decision, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
As our investigator explained to Mr S, it isnt practical for me to inspect the car personally. 
So, Ive based my decision on the information I have.
I appreciate Mr S has provided evidence in this case to back up what hes said. And Ive 
carefully considered the photos and video he sent in after my provisional decision. 
But, these dont show anything new. I explained in my provisional decision why this wasnt 
enough to persuade me there was a fault with the car, and theres little I can add at this 
stage to what Ive already said. The cars handbook explains the speed limit/road sign 
display shouldnt be relied on at all times and that various things can affect it. I appreciate 
this means the system isnt 100% accurate. But I still havent seen enough to make me think 
the system wasnt working as it was supposed to.
Ive thought about all of this again. And having done so, I still dont think its likely there was 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation here. This is due to the same reasons I explained 
in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman