DRN-4070189
The complaint
Mr C complains that, after switching his current account to Nationwide Building Society, his 
energy company, S, wasnt updated with the new details and failed to take direct debit 
payments.
What happened
In early October 2022 Mr C applied to switch his bank account to Nationwide. The process 
was duly completed by 22 October. Mr C then discovered that S hadnt taken direct debit 
payments and still had his old bank details. This has caused him some problems with S.
Nationwide said it received details of three direct debits to S, which it set up on Mr Cs new 
account. A revised direct debit was sent automatically to S and it was for S to request the 
payment, which it apparently did not. Nationwide paid Mr C £50 for the inconvenience and 
advised him that under the Current Account Switch Guarantee it would refund any charges 
caused by the switch, upon receiving evidence of them. Mr C was concerned about how it 
affected his credit status  Nationwide said that if needed it would provide a credit file 
amendment letter.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service Nationwide pointed out that all Mr Cs other 
direct debit providers took payments from him. Our Adjudicator said that she thought 
Nationwide had acted fairly.
Mr C didnt agree and said that S hadnt received his new payment details so he had to 
update the details manually himself. He is now having to increase his payments to S.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has shown us evidence that the three direct debit payments due to S were 
transferred over to Mr Cs new account. The Current Account Switch Guarantee (the  
Guarantee) says:
Q What happens to payments that people send to my old account?
A The Current Account Switch Service will redirect payments to your new account. Each 
time an electronic payment is redirected an automatic message is sent back to the originator 
advising them of the new account details so they can update their records. Some 
organisations may contact you directly to confirm your details have changed.
So if S had still been using Mr Cs old details the payments should have been redirected 
automatically, and I would have thought that if for some reason the payments didnt go 
through they would have been returned. Im satisfied that Nationwide placed the details  of 
the direct debits to S on Mr Cs new account. And, bearing in mind that all Mr Cs other direct 
debits transferred across with no problems I think it likely that all the necessary processes 
were put in place. For the same reasons I would have thought that Mr Cs old bank carried 
out the transfer properly. However Im not considering that bank in this decision and Mr C 
should approach that bank if he needs to get any information from it. Similarly I havent 
considered whether S was at fault.
The Guarantee also confirms that if something goes wrong and charges are incurred 
Nationwide should ensure that those charges are refunded. Similarly if Mr Cs credit rating 
was affected Nationwide will be expected to correct any problems to ensure that doesnt 
happen. I note that it has offered to refund charges and/or provide a credit file amendment 
letter if needed.
So I think Nationwide acted appropriately in setting up Mr Cs new account and in 
transferring the direct debits. In my view it has also made a fair and reasonable payment to 
him.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman