DRN-4118947
The complaint
Mr D and Miss J complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt fully settled a lost 
baggage claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr D brought the complaint to us, for ease, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I havent set it out in detail 
here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Mr D has travel insurance as a benefit of his bank account.
In August 2022, Mr D was on holiday with his family. Unfortunately, his luggage was lost by 
the airline. Mr D got in touch with IPA to make a claim on the policy.
IPA initially told Mr D that he could make a delayed baggage claim, which would attract a 
total benefit amount of £1000 per person after the luggage had been delayed by more than 
48 hours. Another member of IPAs claims team later told Mr D that the maximum amount he 
could claim in total for delayed baggage was £1000.
Mr D later contacted IPA to let it know that the airline had confirmed his luggage had been 
lost. Following ongoing progress update requests from Mr D, in November 2022, IPA paid Mr 
D a total amount of £750. While IPAs correspondence referred to settlement for baggage 
delay, IPAs settlement was made under the lost baggage section of the policy.
Unhappy with IPAs settlement, Mr D complained. He said hed been led to believe that the 
policy baggage limit applied per person, not per claim. IPA issued a final response to Mr Ds 
complaint. The complaints handler stated Mr Ds claim had been settled incorrectly, as the 
policy limit applied per person. Therefore, they said that Mr Ds total entitlement was £2250 
and that the claim would be passed back for reassessment and settlement. IPA also paid Mr 
D compensation of £100 to reflect the service hed received.
However, when IPA reassessed Mr Ds claim, it maintained that no further settlement was 
due. Thats because it said that the complaints handler had made a mistake and that a total 
limit of £750 for lost baggage applied per claim.  It did pay Mr D a further £100 compensation 
in recognition of the error its complaint handler had made.
Mr D remained unhappy with IPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He felt that the policy terms 
were unclear and ambiguous. He noted that members of IPAs claims team had made errors 
in interpreting the meaning of the contract and he felt that the terms could be read in 
different ways. So he concluded that the policy terms should be interpreted in Mr Ds favour 
and that Mr Ds claim should therefore be settled as if there was a benefit limit of £750 per 
beneficiary, rather than per claim, together with interest. He felt that the compensation IPA 
had already paid Mr D was fair to reflect the impact of the errors it had made.
Mr D accepted the investigators findings. But IPA did not. It maintained that its policy terms 
and conditions were clear. It said Mr D had initially claimed for baggage delay rather than 
lost baggage. Hed been told on 28 September 2022 that the total policy limit was £750 and 
hed indicated his understanding of this point in a follow-up email.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think IPA has treated Mr D fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ds policy and the available evidence, 
to decide whether I think IPA treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between IPA and Mr D. While Mr D initially made a claim under the delayed baggage section 
of the policy, the claim was ultimately settled under section E, which includes cover for lost 
baggage. This says:
What is covered
Up to the amount shown in the Benefit Table per trip for all beneficiaries travelling together, 
for the accidental loss of, theft of or damage to baggage and valuables. 
The amount payable will be the value at the time of purchase less a deduction for wear and 
tear based on the age of the property as shown in the table below, (or if the item can be 
repaired economically we will pay the cost of repair only). 
The maximum we will pay for all valuables in total is equal to the valuables limit shown in the 
Benefit Table.
The Benefit Table, set out on page three of the policy, lists a maximum limit for baggage of 
£750. This is also reflected on the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which 
says:
Baggage  Up to the maximum of £750 for the accidental loss of, theft of, or damage to 
baggage and valuables.
Mr D has claimed for lost baggage items for three people  himself, Miss J and their child. 
IPA says that it has already paid Mr J the maximum lost baggage benefit available under the 
policy terms. So Ive gone on to think about whether Im satisfied that the policy documents 
are clearly and unambiguously drafted.
And I dont think they are. I accept that IPA may have meant to provide total cover of £750 
for a lost baggage claim, rather than a limit of £750 per person. But I dont think this is clear 
from the policy wording. I think the term Ive set out above could be reasonably interpreted 
as meaning that IPA will pay up to the policy limit for all beneficiaries who are travelling 
together  in other words that all beneficiaries travelling together who have suffered the loss 
of their baggage will be entitled to a limit of £750 each. 
It's clear too that Mr D has been provided with contradictory information about the level of policy cover by different members of IPAs claims team. He was wrongly told by two 
members of staff that the policy limits applied per person, rather than per claim. As such, it 
seems to me that if staff members experienced in insurance contracts also appear to 
interpret the policy terms incorrectly, its reasonable to conclude that there is a lack of clarity 
in the way that those terms have been drafted. I dont think Mr Ds email of 28 September 
2022 negates the lack of clarity in the policy document and indeed, the final response letter 
was sent some months later, which did say that the limit was paid per person.
Ive noted too that neither the Benefit Table nor the IPID make any reference to the fact that 
the maximum policy limits apply to claims rather than individual beneficiaries. I can see that 
such a restriction also applies to cancellation and curtailment claims and baggage delay 
claims. In my view, this is an unusual restriction on cover, which ought reasonably to have 
been highlighted in the policy documents. 
Where a policy term has been drafted ambiguously, legal principle says that the term must 
be interpreted in favour of the party which didnt draft the contract. In this case, thats Mr D. 
So Ive concluded that the policy terms should be interpreted in Mr Ds favour and that the 
baggage policy limit should be applied per person, rather than per claim. This means that 
IPA should now settle Mr Ds claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, applying a benefit limit of £750 per person. 
IPA accepts that it made errors in the handling of Mr Ds claim. It acknowledges that there 
was delays in the settlement being made and that Mr D was caused frustration and upset 
when he was given conflicting and incorrect information. Its already paid him £200 
compensation to reflect this. In my view, this is a fair award which takes into account the 
likely material distress and inconvenience I think Mr D was caused by IPAs error. So I think 
it's already paid a fair amount for Mr Ds trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to settle Mr D and Miss Js claim, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, applying a maximum limit of £750 per person. 
IPA must also add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
claim until the date of settlement.
If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest it should tell Mr D and Miss J how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr D and 
Miss J a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman