DRN-3628864
The complaint
Mr G complains that an appointed representative of Sterling Wealth Ltd provided him with 
unsuitable advice about the transfer of some pension benefits to a new self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) in March 2017.
What happened
Mr G has been assisted in making his complaint by a firm of solicitors. But, for ease, in this 
decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr G 
himself.
The advice Mr G received was provided by an appointed representative of Sterling Wealth. 
So, although Mr G had no direct contact with Sterling, it is that firm that is responsible for the 
advice that was given to Mr G, and for dealing with his complaint. In this decision, again for 
ease, I will simply refer to the advising business as Sterling throughout.
Mr G met with Sterling in March 2017. The records from the time suggest that Mr G had 
asked the firm to provide him with advice about his retirement savings. At that time Mr G 
held pension savings with two separate providers. He was also in receipt of modest monthly 
payments from an occupational pension. He was aged 55 and had no financial dependents, 
and he was working in a self-employed occupation.
Sterling recommended that Mr G move his pension savings from the three plans he held with 
one of his existing providers into a new SIPP. It said that the SIPP would allow Mr Gs 
pension savings to be invested by a third-party investment manager, whilst allowing him 
online access to monitor the performance of his pension savings, and where his monies 
were being invested. And it noted that the SIPP would provide Mr G with the ability to take 
the flexible retirement benefits he might need at retirement. Sterling didnt advise Mr G to 
transfer the remaining pension savings he held with the other provider as doing so would 
mean he would lose an entitlement to take a higher pension commencement lump sum than 
he might normally be allowed.
Sterling did note in its suitability report that the costs of using the SIPP arrangement, 
including its ongoing advice fee, would be greater than Mr G was already paying. But it said 
that those additional charges would be recouped by better investment performance. Sterling 
measured Mr Gs attitude to risk as being that of a balanced investor. Mr G accepted 
Sterlings recommendation and moved his pension savings to the new SIPP.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think the 
recommendation Sterling had given to Mr G had been suitable. She didnt see any reasoning 
to suggest why the investment funds offered by the existing plan were insufficient for Mr G. 
And given the extended period left until Mr Gs retirement she thought any decisions about 
flexibility would have been better taken nearer the time. She thought that the projected 
investment returns used by Sterling had been significantly in excess of those proscribed by 
the regulator, so providing Mr G with an overly optimistic view of the benefits of the transfer. 
The investigator therefore thought that, had Sterling provided Mr G with suitable advice, hed 
have left his pension savings within the existing plan. So our investigator asked Sterling to 
pay Mr G some compensation.
Sterling said that it didnt agree with the assessment, but would need some additional time to 
provide us with its further comments. Despite the investigators assessment being issued 
over six months ago, Sterling has still not provided anything further. So, as the complaint 
hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is 
the last stage of our process. If Mr G accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by Sterling. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The applicable rules, regulations, and requirements
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Sterling advised Mr G were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Sterling, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
Mr G was seeking advice, and a recommendation, from Sterling. It was Sterling that was the 
expert when looking at the pros and cons of the transfer, and how Mr G could best use his 
pension savings to provide for him when he retired. Whilst it needed to ensure that it gave 
full and detailed information to Mr G to support its recommendation, it was primarily 
responsible for ensuring that the advice it gave was suitable for Mr Gs circumstances. So 
regardless of whether Mr G had any financial experience he was entitled to rely on the 
advice that Sterling gave to him when deciding how to proceed.
Sterling advised Mr G to move some of his pension savings into a new SIPP. It said that 
would allow Mr Gs pension savings to be invested by a third-party investment manager, 
whilst allowing him online access to monitor the performance of his pension savings, and 
where his monies were being invested. But I havent seen anything that sets out in any level 
of detail why Sterling thought that was necessary. It seems the pension plans Mr G already 
held offered him a range of investment opportunities. It doesnt seem to me that there was 
anything unusual about Mr Gs circumstances that he might have needed more bespoke 
investment funds, or significant additional diversity.By agreeing to transfer his pension savings, Mr G needed to pay a fee of 3.5% of their value 
to Sterling. I dont know whether that fee would only have been due if he agreed to the 
transfer, so there was potentially a conflict of interest in the advice that Sterling gave. 
Without recommending the transfer took place, Sterling might not have received a fee for its 
advice.
Sterlings analysis showed that the charges Mr G would need to pay following the transfer 
would be much higher than those he was paying on his current plan. On his current plan 
Sterling identified that Mr G was paying an annual management charge of 0.75%. If he 
agreed to the transfer to the SIPP Mr G would need to pay an initial dealing charge of 0.25% 
and an ongoing charge of 0.75% to the investment manager. And Sterling would add its own 
on-going management charge (in addition to the 3.5% initial advice charge) of 0.75% per 
annum. Overall Sterling suggested that Mr Gs pension investments would need to return an 
additional 1.1% per annum to recoup the additional charges.
But I think there were some difficulties with the fund growth calculations that Sterling relied 
upon. At that time the regulator required firms to provide illustrations to consumers based on 
low, mid, and upper projected rates. Since 2014 those rates have been set at 2%, 5% and 
8%. I understand those were the rates used by Mr Gs previous provider when giving him 
illustrations of his pension savings and their potential growth. But the rates that Sterling used 
in relation to the new SIPP, when providing its advice to Mr G were different. It used rates of 
4%, 8% and 12%. So that would mean that its calculations of the performance needed to 
cover the additional charges would likely to have underestimated the actual position.
Whilst it is reasonable to say that the information Sterling provided did make the charges 
differences clear, I dont think that is the end of the matter. Sterling was providing Mr G with 
advice, and needed to ensure the approach it recommended would be in his best interests. 
I havent seen anything that persuades me Sterling had any evidence-based expectation that 
the transfer to the SIPP would result in Mr G being better off. It is clear that the charges 
would be higher. I dont think there were any reasonable grounds to conclude that the 
alternative investment approach it was recommending would produce sufficient excess 
returns to justify those additional charges.
Sterling also noted that Mr Gs current pension plan didnt offer the flexible retirement 
benefits he might expect to need at retirement. Again, I havent seen any contemporaneous 
evidence to support that conclusion. Mr G was aged 55 at the time and said that he 
expected to continue working for at least the next ten years. So it doesnt seem that Mr G 
had a clear understanding of when he would retire, let alone what form he might want his 
retirement benefits to take. 
I agree with our investigator that any decisions intended to provide the basis on which Mr G 
might take his retirement benefits would have been better taken nearer to the time of his 
retirement. At that point Mr G would be able to better articulate his needs in retirement, and 
the regulatory landscape would be set. I dont think that there was any need to transfer 
Mr Gs pension savings, for this reason, from the stakeholder scheme at that time.
Overall I dont think it was appropriate for Sterling to advise Mr G to transfer his pension 
savings into the SIPP. I havent seen anything to persuade me that he needed the additional 
flexibility and investment funds that the SIPP would offer to him, or the support of the 
investment manager. And Im not persuaded that any investment performance 
improvements would have been sufficient to outweigh the significant additional charges Mr G 
would need to pay. So I think that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld and Sterling needs to 
put things right.Putting things right
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been 
worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Sterling do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Sterling must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with the notional value if it had remained 
with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no 
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable.
Sterling should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Sterling should pay into Mr G's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Sterling is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr G 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
I think its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr G £250 for the inconvenience caused by having to revise his retirement plans 
in light of the disadvantaged position he now knows himself to be in.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sterling deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. Sterling should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
New SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Sterling should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Sterling pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Sterling is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Sterling may require that Mr G provides an 
undertaking to pay Sterling any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Sterling will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr G's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Sterling should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the new SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Sterling totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Sterling will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr G's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr G into that position. It does not mean that Mr G would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Sterling Wealth Ltd to pay him 
the amount calculated as set out above. Sterling Wealth Ltd should provide details of its 
calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman