DRN-3336594
The complaint
Mrs K has complained to Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard, about the length 
of time that card payments she made using her Barclaycard showed as pending. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs K attempted to purchase goods from a third-party retailer on the last day of 
their sale using her Barclaycard. Following the payment request, the funds showed on her 
account as pending. So, unsure whether the payment had gone through, Mrs K called 
Barclaycard. But after waiting on hold for around two hours, she was unable to get through, 
and, not wanting to miss out on the reduced sale price, she put the payment through again  
but again, it showed as pending. So Mrs K messaged Barclaycard through their app, 
requesting they cancel the first transaction, as she didnt want it to leave her account twice. 
Barclaycard replied a few days later asking for more information about the transactions, but 
Mrs K later told this service she didnt receive this. Unhappy with the service received, she 
complained to Barclaycard. She said the matter had been very stressful, and had cost 
money on her phone bill. 
Barclaycard responded. They said they were sorry Mrs K was unable to reach them, but they 
were experiencing extremely high call volumes due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They credited 
Mrs Ks account with £50 by way of compensation. But they said they werent responsible for 
how long a payment shows as pending, as this was the responsibility of the merchant. And 
as they could see the merchant had now refunded both transactions, they felt the matter was 
resolved. But Mrs K remained unhappy and felt further compensation was due. So she 
brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mrs Ks complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She said 
she felt the responsibility for the transactions showing as pending rests with the merchant. 
She accepted the call wait times were particularly long, but she felt Barclaycards explanation 
for this, and the £50 compensation they paid, was ultimately fair. But Mrs K remained 
unhappy, and maintained that she felt the compensation paid was insufficient, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first turn to the issue of the payments showing as pending. As the investigator has rightly 
set out in their view, when Mrs K made the initial payment, a request was sent to 
Barclaycard for them to authorise the transaction. And as funds were available, Barclaycard 
authorised the payment and the amount was subsequently removed from Mrs Ks available 
credit limit. The payment then showed as pending, allowing the merchant to take the money 
without the risk of it being spent. The same process took place when Mrs K made a second 
attempt to process the payment, which was also marked as pending. 
I understand why Mrs K felt the need to process the payment twice, as she was unsure 
whether the money had gone through and was unable to contact Barclaycard to check this. 
But as the collection of the money is driven by the merchant, once Barclaycard had 
authorised it, they were no longer responsible for the money not reaching the merchant. So 
Im satisfied they followed the correct process in authorising both transactions, and I dont 
hold them responsible for the payments showing as pending. Im also pleased to see that the 
payments were subsequently returned to Mrs Ks card by the merchant just over a week 
after they were made.  
Looking next at the wait times Mrs K experienced, I appreciate that waiting on hold for 
around two hours wouldve been extremely frustrating, especially when she was trying to 
obtain specific information that day in order to purchase goods. But in June 2020, when 
Mrs K was trying to contact Barclaycard, it was at the height of the pandemic, when many 
businesses were receiving a much higher volume of calls then they were generally used to; 
and were also trying to adapt to new working practices, with many staff working from home. 
So while I appreciate this was frustrating for Mrs K, and I appreciate that the wait times seem 
to be particularly long, I think this was outside of Barclaycards control, and Im satisfied the 
£50 they credited to Mrs Ks account was sufficient to compensate her for the distress 
caused. 
I appreciate this may be disappointing for Mrs K, but I hope Ive been able to explain clearly 
why I think Barclaycard have resolved Mrs Ks complaint fairly. So I wont be asking them to 
do anything more.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman