DRN-3841163
The complaint
D complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC actions when closing its account and withholding 
the money left in it.
What happened
D held a business account with Barclays. Around June 2022, Barclays blocked Ds account 
and withheld the money in it. 
Barclays carried out a review on Ds account and made the decision to close it. Barclays 
sent D a letter in July 2022 and confirmed the account would close in September 2022. At 
the time, D held around £22,000 in the account which Barclays have continued to withhold. 
D said this is having an impact on its business profits, and the mental state of Ds director. D 
wants the account to be re-opened and access to its money.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Barclays had to do anything differently. He 
said Barclays were complying with their regulations. D remained unhappy, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to make D aware that our rules allow us to receive evidence in 
confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains information about other customers, security information or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to 
share a lot of detail with D, but Id like to assure it, along with its director, that I have 
considered everything.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing relationship. That sometimes means they need to review and sometimes block 
customers accounts. Im satisfied Barclays reviewed and blocked Ds account to meet these 
legal requirements. So, I cant say they have done anything wrong in this regard.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for D to realise it couldnt use its account; and I 
dont doubt the impact this has had on the business. But a bank cant always guarantee that 
funds in an account are readily available as they have wider obligations in which they need 
to comply. Ds director has also explained the impact this situation has had on him as an 
individual  with particular regard to his mental health. I cant consider any impact to the 
director  because the director is a separate legal entity to D. And in the circumstances of 
this complaint, D is Barclays customer. So, while Im sorry to hear of the difficulties faced 
and how Ds director has been left feeling, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on 
this part.
Barclays can choose to end relationships with customers. This can be due to a number of 
reasons and theyre not obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if D 
decided to end the agreement with Barclays  it wouldnt have to explain why. Im also 
satisfied Barclays complied with the terms and conditions of the account when deciding to 
close it. And Im pleased to see they referred to the specific term (section 9) they relied on. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial decision  especially in 
instances where we find the appropriate decision has been reached. 
Ive thought carefully about the overall situation, and whether I think Barclays are acting 
appropriately in withholding the money left in Ds account. Barclays have a duty to protect 
money which is paid into their accounts, and at this stage, based on the evidence I have 
seen, Im satisfied Barclays are entitled to hold on to the money. 
Ultimately, Barclays were entitled to close Ds account and withhold the money in it. 
Because of this, Im unable to provide D with the explanation it wants. But I want to reassure 
D, and its director on its behalf, that Ive made sure that Barclays did everything they were 
meant to do and followed the terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman