DRN-3210447
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Itc Compliance Limited mis-sold him a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr R booked flights to travel abroad. At the same time, he also bought travel 
insurance (the policy). 
His trip was subsequently cancelled for reasons relating to the Covid-19 pandemic, and he 
tried to make a claim on the policy. That claim was declined because the policy excluded 
claims relating to epidemics and infectious disease. 
Mr R says the policy was mis-sold to him and he brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.
Mr R disagrees so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Itc didnt provide any advice or recommend the policy to Mr R. However, it still had an 
obligation to provide Mr R clear, fair and not misleading information about the main terms of 
the policy so that he could consider whether it was right for him  including the main, and 
particularly onerous or unusual, exclusions in the policy. 
Ive seen an example screenshot from the online sales process when the policy was sold. It 
contains a declaration made by the policyholder and says:
by adding insurance I confirm that:
I have read the Status Disclosure Document, Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) and Policy Terms
The IPID is meant to provide key information about the policy being taken out in a short, 
easy to understand way. 
The IPID could be accessed via a link contained on the same page as the declaration set out 
above. The IPID sets out the main insured events as well as summarising whats not insured 
under the policy. It then lists some general restrictions under the section entitled: Are there 
any restrictions on cover? on the second page of the IPID. And that includes infectious 
diseases
This type of exclusion isnt unusual in travel insurance policies. But even if concluded that its 
an exclusion that ought to have been brought to Mr Rs attention at the time of sale in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way, based on what Ive seen, I think it was. And further, Mr R 
had the opportunity to consider the policy terms in full after taking out the policy and he 
couldve cancelled it within the cooling off period of 14 days if he felt it didnt meet his needs. 
I therefore conclude that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman