DRN-2299994
The complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) overcharged him for 
damage to a car he returned and it didnt properly engage with him.
What happened
Mr Ms finance agreement came to an end and he agreed to purchase another car and took 
it from the dealer that his car was in good condition. The car was collected by an agent 
acting for VFS and she identified six areas of damage. Mr M refused to sign the report. On 
14 August VFS sent Mr M an invoice for £439.92.
Mr M disputed the charge on 18 August and VFS responded on 6 September reducing the 
charge to £231.84, but it took £439.92 from his bank on 9 September. Mr M disputed all the 
VFS rejected his complaint, but Mr M felt the matter hadnt been addressed properly. He 
brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld.
She noted Mr M had said that what the dealer had told him about the condition of his car had 
influenced his decision to acquire a new one. However, she felt the revised charge was fair. 
She reviewed the report and the photographs and concluded the damage fell outside fair 
wear and tear as set down in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations (BVRLA) 
guidelines.
Mr M didnt agree and said that VFS had made a number of errors. It had sent an incorrect 
bill and then having agreed to reduce that bill it had collected the full amount. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I said I could appreciate Mr Ms frustration with what had happened and I thought some 
compensation was merited.
Firstly, I considered the charge imposed for damages. I reviewed the collection report and 
studied the photographs and I agreed with the revised charge made by VFS. BVRLA sets 
out what is fair wear and tear in some detail and I could see that the damage to the bumper 
and the left rear quarter panel was chargeable. Initially, VFS relied on the report made by its 
agent as is the norm, but after Mr M challenged the bill it reviewed the charges and reduced 
them. I considered that to be a reasonable response.
However, I didnt consider its handling of matters after that to be acceptable. I noted the 
initial invoice stated, If we have not received payment via one of the options above and/or 
have not heard from you within 14 days of the date of this letter, we will take this as your 
consent to take the full amount via Direct Debit, you do not need to do anything and we will 
organise the payment to be taken 30 days from the date of this letter.
Mr M replied four days later disputing the charge and on 6 September VFS agreed to reduce 
the charge. However, it took the full amount despite hearing from Mr M within 14 days. I 
asked VFS what authority it had to take the full amount when it did. It replied that it had 
nothing further to add.
I believed Mr M's response made it clear he didnt agree with the charges and so it cannot 
be said that he had given consent to take the full amount and furthermore VFS took the 
money less than 30 days from the issue of the invoice. So, while I agreed that Mr M owed 
£231.84 for the damages I thought the handling of the matter by VFS was less than perfect. 
It should not have taken the full amount when it did.
I also thought that Mr M was entitled to a clearer explanation when he complained about the 
charges and the debit to his account. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity and is 
not within my remit, but I considered that providing a clear explanation of the charges and 
the direct debit was not part of the complaint handling process. I said it was reasonable to 
expect VFS to set out for Mr M the basis of the charge and the reason for it taking money 
from his account.
Finally, I added that l couldnt hold that VFS is bound by anything the dealer said about the 
state of the car. It is a separate entity and VFS is not bound by any comments made by one 
of the dealers sales team.
Both parties responded to say they agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept my provisional decision it remains unaltered and I have nothing 
further to add.
Putting things right
VFS should compensate Mr M as directed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to pay Mr M £150 in compensation for the trouble and upset he has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman