DRN-3782493
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as V, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted its 
accounts  meaning it couldnt access the funds held within them, which included a £50,000 
Bounce Back Loan.
Vs director, Mr I, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
V banked with HSBC, holding a business current account and a business money manager 
(BMM) account. 
V successfully applied to HSBC for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 on 7 May 2020. The 
funds were drawn down on 14 May 2020 and transferred to Vs BMM account. Under the 
terms of the government-backed Bounce Back Loan Scheme, no payments needed to be 
made by the borrower during the first 12 months of the loan.
On or around 28 May 2020, HSBC undertook a review of Vs accounts. The bank applied a 
restriction to the accounts while it did so, meaning V was unable to access the funds held 
within them. HSBC only removed the restriction from Vs accounts on 2 March 2021. Mr I 
closed Vs HSBC accounts and transferred the funds to an alternative account that day.
In response to Mr Is complaint about being unable to access Vs funds, HSBC said it had 
been undertaking a review in order to comply with its statutory requirements and had applied 
the restriction in line with the applicable terms and conditions. So it didnt accept that it had 
done anything wrong.
Mr I didnt accept HSBCs response and asked us to look into things. He was particularly 
unhappy that V had been unable to utilise the Bounce Back Loan during the 12-month 
payment holiday period  and was now faced with having to start making the repayments 
despite only recently gaining access to the funds.
HSBC reviewed the complaint afresh after Mr I referred it to us, and changed its position. It 
offered to pay V compensation of £500 for the inconvenience caused by the delay in 
completing its review and removing the restriction. Mr I didnt want to accept this offer as he 
wanted HSBC to reinstate the payment holiday. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought HSBC needed to do more to 
put things right. In summary, she didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong in conducting 
a review of Vs accounts or applying a restriction while it did so  but thought the amount of 
time taken to complete the review was unreasonable. She thought HSBC ought to have 
removed the restriction by 1 July 2020. So she recommended that HSBC also pay V 8% 
interest on the account balances from this date until 2 March 2021 to compensate the 
company for being unable to use its funds.
HSBC accepted our investigators view, but with the caveat that it didnt think it was fair to 
pay 8% interest on funds held in the BMM account  which, being a savings account, 
already earned a level of interest and suggested that there was no intention to utilise the 
funds.
The complaint was then reassigned to a second investigator who thought HSBCs position 
was reasonable, and therefore that HSBC ought only to pay interest on Vs business current 
account balance. 
Mr V didnt accept the offer and asked that an ombudsman review the matter, so it was 
passed to me to decide. He also queried whether HSBC had recorded any adverse credit 
information about V, as two account applications had been declined by other banks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks have a number of legal and regulatory responsibilities to adhere to in their provision of 
banking facilities. These require them to keep accounts under review and may require them 
to restrict the services they provide when doing so. HSBC says that it reviewed and 
restricted Vs accounts in order to comply with its statutory obligations and Im satisfied this 
was the case. The terms and conditions of Vs accounts allowed HSBC to restrict them in the 
manner it did. So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in conducting the review or applying 
the restriction. 
However, I cant see good reason for the review or restriction lasting as long as they did. 
While there is no set timeframe for such a review to be completed, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that the nine months it took HSBC to remove the restriction was warranted. Neither 
party has challenged our investigators finding that this ought reasonably to have happened 
by 1 July 2020  thereby giving the bank around six weeks to have completed its review  
which also seems reasonable to me in the circumstances here.
It was, therefore, an error on HSBCs part that left V unable to access the funds held in its 
accounts from 1 July 2020 until their eventual release on 2 March 2021. So Ive thought 
about the impact that this had on V.
Mr I hasnt suggested that V suffered any direct financial losses as a result of the delay in 
regaining access to the money held in its accounts  for example, that it missed out on a 
particular business opportunity or was unable to operate. So I dont think HSBC needs to 
pay V any compensation in this regard. 
I appreciate why Mr I feels that V lost the benefit of the 12-month repayment holiday on the 
Bounce Back Loan, having been unable to access the loan funds for nine months (of which I 
think eight were down to unreasonable delays on the banks part). But I dont think this has 
left V any worse off. V was always required to repay the loan over a term of six years, with 
no payments required in the first year. The fact that it was unable to utilise the loan funds for 
eight months hasnt made the loan any more expensive than it otherwise wouldve been. 
V held a balance of around £20,000 in its business current account and £50,000 in its BMM 
account. HSBC has offered to pay compensatory interest on the former but not the latter. 
Ive considered whether this is fair and, in the circumstances here, I think it is. 
The compensatory interest is to reflect the impact of being deprived the use of the funds. 
While I accept that V may have used some or all of the balance held in its business current 
account, it seems unlikely to me that it wouldve utilised all of the funds held in its BMM 
account too  bearing in mind that i) the BMM account was primarily a savings account and so the funds being held therein doesnt suggest they were earmarked for imminent use, ii) 
the amount of money V held in its current account was significant, further suggesting that the 
loan funds wouldnt have been needed imminently and iii) Mr I hasnt said that V needed to 
obtain alternative funding elsewhere while unable to access its accounts. 
In addition to the compensatory interest on the business current account balance, Ive noted 
that some charges were incurred on the account while it remained inaccessible. As the 
account was frozen for longer than it shouldve been, I dont think its fair that V incurred 
these  so I also think the bank should refund these, if it hasnt done so already.
The matter also clearly put V to some inconvenience, with Mr I having to follow up with 
HSBC on a number of occasions to chase matters up because the accounts remained 
restricted for far longer than necessary. And I can accept at face value that there wouldve 
been some impact to Vs operations in the months it was left unable to access the funds. So 
its right that the company is compensated for this, and to that end I also think that £500 is 
fair. 
Lastly, I understand Mr I is concerned that HSBC may have recorded adverse credit 
information about V in light of difficulties obtaining an alternative account elsewhere. HSBC 
has confirmed that it hasnt done so, and Mr I hasnt provided us with any evidence (such as 
a copy of the companys credit file) to suggest otherwise. Mr I may wish to approach the 
relevant agencies to check the position and, should he have cause for complaint, he can 
raise the matter as a new complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Calculate interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on Vs business current account 
balance over the period 1 July 2020 to 2 March 2021 and pay this amount to V; 
Refund the charges applied to Vs business current account between 1 July 2020 
and the date of its closure; and
Pay V compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman