DRN-4154548
The complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a
conditional sale agreement (agreement) he couldnt afford to repay and about the sum it 
achieved for his car (a year later) when it was sold at auction. 
What happened
In July 2018 Mr S acquired a used car costing £6,795.00 financed by an agreement from 
Moneybarn.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr S undertook to make an 
advance payment of £400.00 followed by 59 monthly repayments of £257.81. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £15,610.79 at an APR of 51.2%.
Mr S made the advance payment of £400.00 and four monthly repayments of £257.81 under 
the agreement, but nothing further. 
In October 2018 Mr S complained about the quality of the car, a complaint that Moneybarn 
and then our service didnt uphold.
In April 2019 Moneybarn issued Mr S with a default notice.
In May 2019 Moneybarn terminated the agreement and took possession of the car.
In June 2019 the car was sold by Moneybarn at auction for £3,600.
In April 2022 Mr S complained to Moneybarn that it should have never agreed (on the 
grounds of affordability) to lend to him in July 2018 and about the sum it achieved on the 
sale of the car (at auction). In respect of the former Mr S said (amongst other things) it 
should have been apparent to Moneybarn that when he applied for finance he was in arrears 
with a company that I will call P, P being a subsidiary of the same parent company as 
Moneybarn.
In May 2022 Moneybarn issued Mr S with a final response letter (FRL). 
Under cover of this FRL Moneybarn, in respect of its decision to lend in July 2018, said it 
had performed several different checks before agreeing to do so which included (amongst 
other things):
a full credit search (with a credit reference agency) which provided details of Mr S
current borrowing levels and repayment history (including any arrears and defaults)
an independent check of Mr S declared net monthly income of £1,767.58 to two 
payslips
Moneybarn said that from the above checks it was able to establish:
Mr S existing borrowing levels were within its lending criteria
there were no recent missed payments recorded
Mr S had no county court judgements registered against him
Mr S hadnt been declared insolvent
Mr S could afford (as a maximum) £441.89 a month against a proposed monthly 
payment of £257.81
Moneybarn also pointed out that Mr S signed to say that repayments of £257.81 a month 
were affordable, and he didnt envisage anything (over the term of the agreement) that would 
prevent him from making (all) the repayments on time. It also said that it wouldnt have been 
aware of any arrears Mr S might have had with P simply by virtue of the fact that it and P are 
subsidiaries of the same parent company. However, if any arrears had been reported by P to 
the credit reference agency it used then this fact would have been taken into account by it 
before it agreed to lend.
Under cover of this FRL Moneybarn, in respect of the sum it achieved on the sale of the car 
(at auction), said it was satisfied a fair and reasonable price was achieved for the car.
In May 2022 Moneybarn had recorded in its books an outstanding sum due and owing from 
Mr S (under the agreement) of £10,656.55 broken down as follows:
cash price of the car £6,795.00
interest £8,815.79
sub-total £15,610.79
payments made (£1,431.24)
sub-total £14,179.55
auction fees £52.00
damage/repairs £25.00
sale proceeds of the car at auction (£3,600.00)
total £10,656.55
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He 
said that in all the circumstances Moneybarn could and should have undertaken further 
checks into Mr S financial position and personal circumstances before it agreed to lend. But 
he wasnt persuaded, based on what Mr S had provided our service about his financial 
position and personal circumstances prior to July 2018 that further (and proportionate) 
checks by Moneybarn would have, or should have, caused it not to lend.
The adjudicator also concluded that Moneybarn achieved a fair and reasonable price for the 
car when it sold it at auction.
Mr S didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision. In 
asking for his complaint to be considered by me (and a decision issued on it) Mr S said:
he had provided evidence to show Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to him
he was in arrears with P at the material time and it later went on to conclude it 
shouldnt have lent to him
Moneybarn advised him that it would get 90% of the value of the car back at auction 
but got only 50% back
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
I agree with the adjudicator that in the particular circumstances of this case Moneybarn
didnt carry out proportionate checks before it agreed to lend to Mr S. But I also find myself
agreeing with him that had Moneybarn carried out further (and proportionate) checks it
wouldnt have, nor should it have, concluded that it shouldnt lend to Mr S.
Mr S has provided our service with bank statements (for two accounts) for the period 
March 2018 to May 2018. These statements dont show running balances but do show 
debits out of, and credits into, the accounts. 
Now its not my role to say what further (and proportionate) checks Moneybarn should have 
undertaken. But had it asked Mr S for bank statements and assuming Mr S would have 
supplied Moneybarn with exactly what he has provided our service Im satisfied that 
Moneybarn wouldnt have had any cause to conclude that its proposed lending might be 
unaffordable for Mr S.
Ive reviewed the various extracts Mr S has supplied our service of his credit file for 
April 2023. Now I appreciate this isnt particularly useful in forming a view as to what 
Moneybarn would have seen when it undertook its credit search in July 2018. But Ive seen 
nothing in these extracts that, in themselves, should have, in my view, prompted Moneybarn 
to have concluded it shouldnt lend.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would add that I agree with Moneybarn that it 
wouldnt have been party to what Mr S says was arrears on an agreement he had with P by 
virtue of the fact that it and P are subsidiaries of the same parent company. And based on 
what has been said and provided by the parties, I cant reasonably conclude what would 
have been recorded by P with any of the credit reference agencies in July 2018. But even if 
P had registered arrears information with one or more third party credit reference agencies 
this doesnt mean, in itself, Moneybarn shouldnt have lent, especially when the very market 
Moneybarn operates in is taken into account.
In summary I can confirm (based on what both parties have said and submitted) that Im
satisfied that Moneybarn did nothing wrong when it took the decision to lend to Mr S in
July 2018.
Mr S says that Moneybarn achieved less at auction for the car than it was possibly worth, or 
less than it advised him it might reasonably achieve. But Ive seen nothing that would lead 
me to conclude that Moneybarn ever advised Mr S what it might achieve for the car at 
auction or that it was sold for anything other than for a fair and reasonable price.
I dont know what Mr S current circumstances are. But I would remind Moneybarn of its 
obligations to treat Mr S fairly and with due consideration and forbearance in the event he is 
in financial difficulties and in the event it wishes to seek recovery of any sum it has recorded 
in its books as due and owing to it from Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman