DRN-3168101
The complaint
Mr P complains to Trading 212 UK Limited about problems he had using their trading 
platform in January 2021. He says he had issues with logging in to manage his positions, as 
well as trouble in executing trades for an American stock called GameStop Corp. Hes asked 
to be compensated for his losses. 
What happened
Mr P held shares in GameStop Corp (GME) with T212. In January 2021, the share price of 
GME rallied dramatically from around $4 to over $80 a share. Mr P had trouble getting into 
his T212 account on 27 January, and trouble with buying and selling GME stock on 
28 January. 
Unhappy about this, Mr P wrote to T212 to make a complaint  he explained that he and 
thousands of others were left with their money tied up in stocks which could rise and fall 
dramatically within minutes, yet they couldnt engage with the market. He explained he 
wanted to buy more GME stock and that he felt T212 were engaged in market manipulation. 
He also said he wanted to move his stock away from T212 and asked about the process. 
T212 treated Mr Ps concerns as a complaint, but in the meantime explained they didnt offer 
in-specie transfers so Mr P would need to sell his stock and withdraw the funds instead.
 
After investigating his complaint, T212 sent Mr P their final response and explained that they 
didnt agree theyd done something wrong. They acknowledged thered been a period of 
downtime on their platform for some users on 27 January around the time of the opening of 
the US market, but their agreement with him recognised their platform might sometimes be 
subject to disruption caused by external factors and so any claims would be waived given 
the circumstances would be outside of their reasonable control  something they called their 
force majeure clause. T212 also acknowledged the issue with trade execution in relation to 
GME stock, but they explained this was because their liquidity provider had restricted 
access. They pointed out that the regulator, the FCA, endorsed their approach too. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr P asked for our help. He reiterated his concerns about T212s 
platform downtime along with their decision to restrict the purchase of GME stock which he 
thought was clear evidence of market manipulation. He also explained that hed lost around 
$2,000 on his holding. 
One of our investigators had a look into what had happened, but she didnt agree T212 had 
done anything wrong. She thought T212s actions were justified given the unprecedented 
market movement so didnt agree theyd manipulated the market. She also noted the terms 
Mr P had agreed to which covered what happened, as well as the inability for him to transfer 
out. Mr P didnt agree and said, in summary:
he didnt agree there was evidence to show GME stock had been subject to a short 
squeeze and questioned financial regulation around shorting a stock over 100% of 
the available float  he said his concerns were about illegal share issuing by market 
makers and questioned T212s dealing with such institutions,
he questioned the fact that T212 were able to get prices from the liquidity provider to 
sell but not buy  he thought this was contradictory and broke financial conduct laws 
and asked our investigator to look into the reasoning behind it,
and he didnt think the FCA acted in the best interests of retail investors and asked 
for the handbook of rules and regulations.
Our investigator thought about what Mr P had said but wasnt persuaded to change her 
opinion on his case. She said the short squeeze had been well publicised at the time and 
shared links to a number of different media sources. She also shared a chart showing the 
dramatic increase in volumes. Our investigator made clear that she wasnt taking a view on 
whether the short squeeze was something that was or wasnt allowed under financial 
regulation, but instead she was taking a view on how T212 handled the practical challenges 
that arose as a result of the market movement  ultimately she didnt think it unusual for a 
brokers terms to acknowledge the sorts of problems that happened here, and thought theyd 
been applied fairly. She also shared links to the FCAs handbook where the dispute 
resolution complaints sourcebook and the conduct of business sourcebook could be found. 
Mr P remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to reconsider his case. He reiterated 
a number of his concerns surrounding the actions T212 took in relation to the GME volatility, 
but also mentioned some other concerns which had arisen throughout the course of his 
complaint such as why his shares werent in his name and instead in T212s name, why he 
couldnt have what he thought was a legal certificate for them and why there wasnt proof his 
shares werent synthetic shares. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at what happened in early 2021, and across 27 and 28 January in particular, there 
was considerable activity across the stock market  particularly with a handful of stocks. 
Across social media and forums, unprecedented interest in certain shares like GME drove 
prices up  as prices increased, short sellers had to buy stock to close positions in order to 
prevent larger losses  the share price continued to rise, hence the reference to what 
happened being a short squeeze. The activity caused a knock on impact across trade 
execution worldwide, so it made for far from normal trading conditions. In GME itself, I note 
the New York Stock Exchange halted trading a number of times on 28 January in an attempt 
to control volatility. In response to what happened, I the FCA issued a statement on 
29 January saying:
Broking firms are not obliged to offer trading facilities to clients. They might withdraw their 
services, in line with customer terms and conditions if, for instance, they consider it necessary 
or prudent to do so. Firms are exposed to greater risk and therefore more likely to need to 
take such actions during the periods of abnormally high transaction volumes and price 
volatility... 
Its not in dispute that there were problems for T212 and with trading GME on the days in 
question. Ive seen T212 acknowledged the issues and notified clients at the time including 
comments on their community page such as:
The unprecedented market activity in GameStop is causing extreme strain on the entire trade 
execution ecosystem worldwide.
 
We want to warn you of potential disruptions due to the excessive market risk of trading 
extremely volatile shares. Order execution of stocks with incredibly heightened trading activity such as GameStop and 
AMC Entertainment might face sudden and unforeseen circumstances. Please, consider the 
risks before placing an order with these securities.
Were currently not able to accept new orders for GameStop (GME) as our intermediary  
[liquidity provider] are unable to process them. They are working on resolving this ASAP.
Stemming from all this is the two-fold crux of Mr Ps complaint  hes unhappy about T212s 
platform downtime and hes unhappy T212 restricted the purchase of additional GME stock. 
Having said that, he also explained in his complaint form that he made a loss on the GME 
stock he held. 
Mr P has additional concerns, but as our investigator explained, our service can only help 
with matters a firm has already had the chance to address  so my focus has been on the 
points Mr P complained to T212 about, rather than the ancillary concerns that have arisen 
throughout his complaint journey. Should he wish, Mr P is welcome to raise them with T212.
Ive looked at what happened on 27 and 28 January when thinking about Mr Ps access and 
execution concerns. Ive also borne in mind the terms T212 have cited. While not an 
exhaustive list, Ive quoted some I see as relevant below:
From the share dealing terms of business:
Clause 5.4.
We shall not accept Instruction to Deal when: the relevant market is closed for trading; or you 
do not have enough money in your account to execute the Transaction; or there are events 
described as Force Majeure in Clause 25.
Clause 5.12
We shall have the right to introduce new Financial instruments and Market Hours for trading 
at the Trading Platform and to suspend and/ or remove from the Trading Platform any 
Financial instrument and Market Hours at our sole discretion.
Clause 5.14
We reserve the right to place a Sell-only Limitation in the following cases, but not limited to:
a. Where We have a suspicion of unlawful activity; 
b. Where We have suspicions of restricted or abusive trading activity; 
c. Where We have reasonable grounds to believe that allowing You to continue 
trading will be detrimental You as a client; or 
d. Where You have not provided your express consent whenever we have requested 
such, including but not limited to, in the event that we need to obtain express consent 
in order to introduce new features on the Trading Platform. 
Clause 6.4
You hereby agree and acknowledge that in the event of downtime of the Trading Platform 
You shall waive any claims against Trading 212 of missed profits and/or claims that You 
would have executed an order on a specific price during the downtime. You acknowledge that 
sometimes there may be technical issues or faults with the Trading Platform.
Clause 25.1
Whilst we endeavour to comply with our obligations in a timely manner, we shall incur no 
liability whatsoever for any partial or full default of our obligations by reason of any cause or 
event beyond our reasonable control, including but not limited to any communications, 
systems or computer failure, market default, suspension, failure or closure, or the imposition 
or change (including a change of interpretation) of any law or governmental or regulatory 
requirement and we shall not be held liable for any loss you may incur as a result
Clause 25.2Force Majeure shall include any of the following: the suspension or failure of any financial 
instrument, whether underlying or not, the suspension or closure of any markets, exchanges, 
the nationalisation and/or government sequestration, the failure of any of our suppliers, and if 
applicable our intermediate broker, agent or principal, dealer or any custodian, sub-custodian, 
clearing house or regulatory or self-regulatory organisation, for any reason, to perform its 
obligations. Whereas in any such event we will try to take reasonable steps to mitigate the 
effect of the said event in order to continue our operations and to continue to provide you with 
services and where we may therefore alter some of the (trading) terms and conditions as per 
this agreement.
And from the risk disclosure notice:
Trading 212 UK Ltd. relies on computer software, hardware and telecommunications
infrastructure and networking to provide its services to Clients, and without these systems 
Trading 212 UK Ltd. cannot provide the services. These computer-based systems and 
services such as those used by Trading 212 UK Ltd. are inherently vulnerable to disruption, 
delay or failure, which may cause you to lose access to the Trading 212 UK Ltd. trading 
platform or may cause Trading 212 UK Ltd. not to be able to provide CFD or Shares 
quotations or trading, or may negatively affect any or all aspects of Trading 212 UK Ltd.'s 
services. Under the Trading 212 UK Ltd. Trading Agreement, you accept the Trading 212 UK 
Ltd. systems and services "Trading212" and our liability to you is limited.
Ive first thought about the issues Mr P says he had in accessing his account on 27 January. 
In doing so, I note no specific claim has been put forward about how this affected him  such 
as that he was looking to place a specific trade at a certain time. Instead, I understand Mr P 
wanted, generally, to sell his stock to benefit from the price increase, or to buy more and sell 
that on too. 
Ive thought carefully about this, but from everything Ive seen Im afraid there is little else I 
can add to what our investigator has already explained. As quoted above, T212s terms of 
business and risk disclosure notice cover instances such as these. They say, in summary, 
that they cant be liable for losses flowing from events beyond their reasonable control or 
during technical downtime. I think it was fair for T212 to point to such terms in their response 
to Mr Ps complaint given what was happening at the time. 
This said, it isnt the case that our service simply looks to see whether a firm can absolve its 
liability based upon its terms  instead, we look to see whether firms have applied their 
terms fairly or reasonably. And while a consumer might not consider those terms to be in 
their favour, it doesnt necessarily mean I would conclude they were unfair if I were to be 
satisfied they were necessary for a firm to set out the parameters of how they work, what 
their process are and what service they can and cant provide to clients. Applying this to 
what happened here, I dont think T212s reliance on their terms was unfair or unreasonable 
 there was extreme demand on their systems at the time and so I dont find that an 
interruption was unreasonable. 
In addition, T212 shared evidence of their email conversation with their liquidity provider on 
27 January and I can see there were a number of hours of downtime where Mr P wouldnt 
have been able to trade. I can see T212 did what they could and pro-actively chased to try 
and resolve the issue, but it doesnt appear it was something they were responsible for. So 
even if Mr P didnt experience the access issues he did, its still unlikely he wouldve been 
able to trade.
In addition to the access issues, Ive also thought about the trading restrictions Mr P was 
unhappy about  both generally, and in relation to his concern about the scope for sales but 
not purchases. It appears Mr P was a holder of GME shares, so he mightve wanted to sell 
them for a profit during the price rise, or might have wanted to add to his position in the hope 
of profiting from the subsequent sale of a larger holding. T212 told us that on 28 January, a restriction on executing GME trades was set. This 
however wasnt necessarily their own decision  while they may also have had their own 
reasons such as the risks noted by the FCA, T212 didnt have direct market access and 
were unable to offer a price for the stock given it was restricted by their liquidity provider 
(who I note are both considerable and reputable, as well as that they were acting in line with 
other similar firms). The liquidity provider wouldnt allow trading in GME until capital 
adequacy issues were resolved  considerable additional collateral was required by US 
clearing houses in order to ensure firms had sufficient liquidity to settle trades.
As I mentioned, T212 shared evidence of their conversation with the liquidity provider during 
the time in question so I have been able to verify T212s version of events. I can see that 
before the US market opened, T212 were informed the liquidity provider would be putting 
GME into closing only  so Mr P was able to sell his GME stock, subject to the usual issues 
arising from the normal course of trading such as not achieving a price due to the extreme 
volatility. Although Mr P challenges why T212 could offer a sell and not a buy, Im satisfied 
they were unable to offer this at the time. 
I note T212 used the services of one execution intermediary, but I am satisfied that their 
decision to do so was a commercial decision at their discretion. This said, even if T212 did 
have another intermediary relationship, Im not persuaded it would have made any 
difference, given most firms were affected similarly. 
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the market conditions were so unusual that they 
satisfied the force majeure clause and T212 werent obliged to accept a deal instruction 
under clause 5.4, whether that be to buy or sell. I think T212 took reasonable steps to try 
and work around this for Mr P in order to mitigate the impact, so Im satisfied the events and 
subsequent impact on T212 were beyond their reasonable control. 
So as our investigator said, Im satisfied T212s terms were fairly applied. And Im persuaded 
that the position T212 took was supported by the FCAs statement that said firms are not 
obliged to offer trading facilities to clients and may withdraw their services if necessary or 
prudent. And though it could be considered that T212 were being prudent in not offering 
prices for GME, I think in reality the cause was because their execution intermediary 
restricted their access, so they werent able to provide a market. 
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that T212 acted fairly and reasonably in taking the 
action that they did in response to unprecedented circumstances  I think they did all they 
could to mitigate the impact on Mr P and were simply unable to offer the market access he 
wanted. I havent found that T212s actions were for their own convenience or their own 
advantage, instead that market access was limited and so they acted in line with their own 
terms. While I know Mr P will remain unhappy, on the evidence here I dont agree there are 
grounds for T212 to compensate him. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman