DRN-3037283
The complaint
Mr L complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (who Ill refer to 
as Amex) took a payment from him, even though he told them he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr L spoke to Amex on 11 September 2020. During the call a payment of £3,500 was taken 
from his debit card, towards his Amex charge card account.
Mr L later complained that this payment shouldnt have been taken because he told Amex 
hed have to miss out on other essentials.
An investigator here looked into the matter, and listened to the call in question. He felt Amex 
had treated Mr L fairly by not demanding the payment be made, and by giving Mr L the 
option to talk to their financial difficulties team.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator and said that he hadnt addressed Amexs failure to 
escalate his complaint about an earlier call. So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr L has raised several complaints about Amex. I confirmed to him what the 
remit of this complaint was  essentially, the payment being taken when he thinks it 
shouldnt have been. And despite his view that its been misunderstood, he has declined to 
elaborate on this or clarify matters. So, Ive said Ill proceed on that basis.
I too have listened to the call Mr L had with Amex on 11 September 2020. During the call
Mr L explained that hed been trying to make a payment online, but that it didnt work. So, it 
seems to me that Mr L was already volunteering to make a payment to his Amex account.
I acknowledge that Mr L has said he felt he was given no option but to make the payment, 
and he said that during the call in-question.
During the call Amex said to Mr L there was a payment due of nearly £4,000. But they also 
said this isnt a demand for payment, I just wanna understand the situation. Regarding that 
payment, are you um, are you able to make that payment? Whats the situation from your 
side regarding that?
Mr L didnt immediately answer that question, but I think it was clear that no demand for 
payment was being made at that point.
Amex said a payment of £3,954.68 would bring the account fully up to date. And Mr L asked 
if they wanted to take some money now, explaining that he had a clear £3,500 he could give 
now and that he could pay the rest later.
Mr L then asked Are there any other options to take the strain a bit? Because Im still, as I 
mentioned at the beginning, Ive still not actually got any work coming in until, err, October.
Amex then said theyd ask some questions about Mr Ls financial situation. He explained that 
he had no income other than Universal Credit. He said that he had to pay for his utilities up-
front and was not currently up to date with those.
Because of this, Amex said they wanted to give Mr L some tailored support for his situation. 
They explained that theres a specialist area called the financial difficulties team who can 
have conversations with people like yourself who just need that bit of support, and they can 
see what options are available, and advise you on the best way to pay your balance on the 
card.
Mr L asked if they were part of Amex because hed heard he might lose his account if he 
used them. Amex reassured Mr L that the financial difficulties team are part of Amex and he 
might not necessarily lose his account, but they felt hed be best off talking to that team, 
given his circumstances.
Mr L said hed rather not enter into any complications, that hed make a part payment now 
and the rest later. Amex explained that if payment wasnt made shortly then the account may 
be considered for cancellation, but Mr L didnt want that so he said he would pay £3,500 now 
and the rest later.
Amex said they didnt want to put Mr L in financial difficulty by making that payment. Mr L 
said it would and it would mean he couldnt pay certain bills. He said he felt between a rock 
and a hard place and that Amex were bullying him. Mr L said he would find it easier to 
negotiate with utility companies than with Amex.
Amex then said I dont want to take a payment that could put you in, in difficulty. Over the 
next couple of days did you want to have those conversations with [utility company] and any 
other utility companies?. Mr L declined this, saying he wants the bullying to stop.
Amex then offered to help with that by ceasing collection activity for the next seven days. But 
Mr L still said he wanted to pay.
When it came to payment, Amex asked Mr L if he was happy to pay. Mr L repeated that he 
didnt feel he had a choice. He said he was having to pay Amex because they were being 
the most aggressive and bullying. Amex said theyd take the payment because Mr L said he 
wants to make it, but they also offered the services of their financial difficulties team again. 
Mr L said he will pay what he can afford.
Mr L has also complained about Amexs complaint handling and a failure to raise concerns 
hed made about another call a few days earlier. Amex raised this complaint during the
11 September 2020 call, so while it might not have been raised immediately, Ive not seen 
anything to make me think this delay warrants compensation.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr L said he felt bullied he said he could afford the payment and 
he was told he didnt necessarily have to make it there and then. Mr L was also offered the 
opportunity to talk to the financial difficulties team if he wanted to explore other options. But 
Mr L didnt want to do that. I appreciate he may have felt he had no options, but he 
acknowledged their existence and declined to take them up.
I also appreciate Mr L may have felt the options were effectively taken from him by what he 
describes as bullying, but Amex said they could suspend collections activity. I also note the 
call handler was polite throughout, and gave Mr L several opportunities not to make the payment. But it seems to me that he chose to do this instead of exploring the other options 
which had been recommended. I dont think Amex was wrong to accept the payment.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman