DRN-2478105
The complaint
Mr D complains about the fee Harwood Claims Management Limited (trading as Hidenda) 
charged him following a successful claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr D completed Hidendas online form for a free PPI check. Mr D says he 
electronically signed a letter of engagement (LOE). But he later decided to pursue his claim 
directly with the lender. So, he didnt return the forms Hidenda sent to him in the post.
In November 2019, a lender upheld Mr Ds PPI claim and offered him compensation. Shortly 
afterwards, Hidenda invoiced Mr D for its success fee of 20% (plus VAT) of the settlement 
from the lender. 
Mr D told Hidenda he didnt want it to progress the claim or any other claims on his behalf. 
Hidenda said it had raised the invoice because the settlement from the lender was as a 
result of its investigation. It continued to pursue Mr D for his fee.
Mr D asked Hidenda to stop sending him emails and texts saying he owed it money for a PPI 
claim. He had sent Hidenda an email saying he would not be engaging its services in 
December 2019.
Hidenda said it believed it was entitled to its fee because it was successful in achieving a 
refund for Mr D. It had submitted a data request to the lender for the mis-selling of PPI after 
Mr D had electronically signed its LOE. Mr Ds request to cancel Hidendas service was after 
the 14 day cancellation period and also after the date the lender had issued their final 
response to the claim.
Mr D remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He said he hadnt signed a LOA or returned 
forms Hidenda had posted to him. He hadnt engaged Hidendas services, other than the 
initial enquiry. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr D has acknowledged signing Hidendas LOE electronically. This says:
Harwood Claims Management Limited trading as Hidenda shall on behalf of the 
undersigned: 
1. Complete a Subject Access request under the Data Protection Act 2018 / General 
Data Protection (GDPR) where required.
2. Complete a thorough investigation of Clients account(s).
3. Pursue a settlement against the Company where Hidenda considers there to be 
a(any) Claim(s).
4. Negotiate and settle the Claim(s) with the Company.
So, Im satisfied Mr D gave Hidenda authority to not only check for PPI, but to also pursue a 
settlement from the lender if it was found. 
The LOE goes on to say:
You should only sign this document if you have read our Letter of Engagement and Terms 
and Conditions and agree to the content of both documents, and you wish to enter into a 
legally binding contract with Harwood Claims Management Limited.
The terms and conditions set out the fee as being 20% plus VAT (making a total of 24%) of 
the compensation, payable to Hidenda for the Services carried out by it. They go on to 
explain how the fee is calculated with some examples.
The terms and conditions also say that should the Compensation be paid direct to the 
Client, the Client will immediately notify Hidenda. Hidenda will invoice the Client for the Fee 
which will become due and payable by the Client to Hidenda within 14 days.
So, I think Hidenda gave Mr D clear information about its fees in its terms and conditions and 
Mr D agreed to these when he signed the LOE.
 
Mr D says that after signing the LOE, he decided not to use Hidendas services and to 
pursue the claim himself. So, he didnt sign the documents Hidenda sent in the post.
 
Hidendas terms and conditions say a client can cancel the agreement within 14 days of 
signing the authority without incurring any charge and sets out the fees for cancelling after 
then. 
They also say: To exercise the right to cancel, you must inform us of your decision to cancel 
this contract by a clear statement (e.g. a letter sent by post, telephone or e-mail). 
So, although Mr D didnt return documents Hidenda sent him, this wasnt enough to cancel 
the contract. From what Ive seen and been told, Mr D didnt tell Hidenda that he wanted to 
cancel the agreement until 7 December 2019 when he sent an email saying: Please note 
that I will not be progressing this, or any future claims through yourselves.
But this was after the lender sent its offer of compensation for mis-sold PPI to Mr D on 4 
November 2019. And Hidendas terms and conditions say: If the Claim(s) have already 
been submitted by Hidenda and the Claim(s) is(are) successful, the firms Fee (20% plus 
VAT making a total of 24%) will be payable on the compensation awarded.
Mr D strongly believes that Hidenda didnt have authority to pursue his PPI claim on his 
behalf. He says that although he signed the LOE, he didnt sign a letter of authority (LOA).
But Hidenda has sent us screenshots to show its online application process. The electronic 
signature box appears to be on a different screen to the LOE. On the LOE screen it says: 
Dont Forget  Please eSign Below and theres a tick box next to Use my eSignature from 
my Free PPI Check documents before clicking to submit.Although Mr D only needed to electronically sign once, I think Hidenda made him aware that 
the same signature would be used on different documents. And, as Ive already said, Im 
satisfied he gave Hidenda authority to pursue his PPI claim. 
Mr D has commented that the LOA doesnt contain his wet signature. While Hidenda sent 
Mr D paperwork to sign and return in the post, it seems the lender didnt require this to 
progress his complaint. The lender sent a copy of its final response letter to Hidenda. So, it 
appears to have recognised Hidenda as Mr Ds representative in his PPI claim.
 
Mr D says he would be willing to pay for the time Hidenda spent finding out if he had PPI, 
which he estimates to be around £40. But Hidendas fee was agreed on a no win, no fee 
basis so it didnt need to reflect the amount of work or time it spent on Mr Ds case. And I 
think Hidenda made Mr D aware of this when he agreed to use its service. 
Ive considered all of Mr Ds points including what hes said about recent communication 
from Hidenda asking him to complete another LOA to claim additional money owed to him by 
the lender. Hes suggested this is an attempt to get his signature on a LOA to bolster 
Hidendas claim that hed already signed one. But Ive already explained why Im satisfied 
Hidenda had authority to pursue Mr Ds PPI claim on his behalf. So, his comments about this 
havent made a difference to the conclusion Ive reached. 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr D, but I think its fair for Hidenda to 
pursue him for its fees.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman