DRN-2510321
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card in 2004. Mrs C says that AXA France IARD mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Mrs C took out a store card and PPI policy in a department store  but AXA has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so Ill refer to AXA in this decision.
Mrs C says that she was mis-sold the PPI policy. Our adjudicator looked in to this  but 
didnt think that the PPI had been mis-sold and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed 
with this  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about he sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  I know this will be 
disappointing for Mrs C  so Ill explain why.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Cs store card application  and I can see on this that the 
PPI is presented as an optional product  and Mrs C has signed to select it. This is separate 
to her signature for the store card itself. So, with this in mind, I think that AXA made Mrs C 
aware that she had a choice in taking out the PPI, and that she chose to take it out.
 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C  so it didnt have to check it was right for her  but 
it did need to give Mrs C enough information for her to decide if she thought it was right for 
her.
Its possible some of the information AXA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  but Mrs C doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
that the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances at the time, 
it looks like the policy couldve been useful for her if something went wrong  so I dont think 
that better information wouldve stopped her from taking the PPI.
Ive taken in to account all of Mrs Cs comments, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman