DRN-3119804
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited sent him a policy statement that 
provided a sum assured value that was out of date. Hes also unhappy with the length of 
time it took to settle a claim after his wife, Mrs B, passed away.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr and Mrs B set up a life assurance policy with Aviva on 10 April 2011. It provided cover on 
a decreasing basis over a 15-year term. 
A policy statement was sent to Mr and Mrs B on 21 May 2021. This explained that, as at 
9 April 2021, the policy provided £83,829.02 of life cover.
Mrs B passed away on 20 June 2021. Mr B notified Aviva of this on 28 June 2021 and he 
was told theyd be in touch in the next ten days. As he hadnt heard anything, Mr B chased 
Aviva on 23 July 2021 and requested a call back. This wasnt received by Mr B and so he 
called Aviva again on 26 July 2021. 
Aviva called Mr B back on 27 July 2021. The claim was registered and paid that day, with 
Mr B receiving £73,045.12. This included £80.96 interest for the period between Mrs Bs 
death and the claim being paid.
A complaint was raised about the difference in value between the May 2021 statement and 
the amount paid, and the delays in settling the claim. 
Aviva upheld the complaint. In short, they said:
The policy was taken out on 10 April 2011 on a decreasing basis. The May 2021 
statement was sent with a calculation date of 9 April 2021, when the sum assured 
was £83,829.02. This however decreased the following day, on the policys 
anniversary, to £72,964.16  which was in line with the policy terms. 
The policy statement shouldve been calculated on 10 April 2021 but, as this was a 
Saturday, the system made the calculation the day before. If the anniversary had 
been a weekday then the calculation wouldve been made on the correct day. They 
were sorry that Mr B didnt receive an up to date value and that the statement wasnt 
sent out until 21 May 2021. 
The policy was calculated correctly on 9 April 2021, as per the statement. But the 
policy value decreased each year and therefore the amount Mr B received was 
correct.
They created a note on their system following Mr Bs call on 28 June 2021, notifying 
them of his wifes death, but they failed to issue the claim letter  which then led to 
Mr B chasing them for a progress update. They apologised for the length of time it 
took to pay the claim and accepted it shouldnt have taken that long. 
They paid £500 to Mr B for the trouble and upset caused by the claim payment being 
delayed and the confusion around the value.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator acknowledged Mr Bs frustration 
with what happened but didnt think Aviva had to do anything further. She said the policy 
statement was generated incorrectly and there was a delay in it being sent to Mr B. But that 
mistakes do unfortunately happen and she didnt think it would be fair to expect Aviva to pay 
the value on the May 2021 statement. Our investigator thought Aviva had acted 
appropriately by adding interest to the claim value for the delay in paying it. And that the 
£500 compensation Mr B received was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it wouldve been a very difficult time Mr B and his family following his wifes 
death. Mr Bs dissatisfaction with how the claim was handled is therefore understandable. 
But I agree with our investigator that Aviva has acted fairly in trying to put things right and so 
they dont need to do anything further. Ill explain why.
The May 2021 statement was accurate in stating the sum assured value was £83,829.02 as 
at 9 April 2021. But, given the policy anniversary was the following day, I think this was 
somewhat misleading as the value wouldnt be relevant going forward, and it wasnt accurate 
at the time the statement was issued. Aviva has explained the statement shouldve been 
calculated on 10 April 2021 but wasnt due it being a non-working day. 
Ive noted Mr Bs point that surely his policy cant be the only one affected by this issue. 
Although I understand his concern in this regard, I think it would be helpful for me to explain 
that I can only look at how Avivas actions have impacted Mr B. And so, I cant look at how 
Aviva more widely run their business or how this could affect other policyholders. 
It is however accepted by Aviva that the statement shouldve been sent out more promptly 
and that it ought to have been calculated using the anniversary date of 10 April 2021. Had 
this happened, it wouldve shown the correct sum assured for that year. Because of this 
error, it seems Mr B thought the claim was going was to pay more than it did. While I 
appreciate Mr Bs disappointment at finding out the correct claim value, Im satisfied that he 
received what he is contractually entitled to under the policy. 
There was however a delay in paying the claim which, again, isnt disputed by Aviva. And I 
understand Mr Bs frustration at having to chase Aviva for an update when he wasnt 
contacted as he was told he would be. I think this inconvenienced Mr B at a very upsetting 
time, which couldve been easily avoided by Aviva. While the impact of this cant be undone, 
Ive looked at how Aviva have tried to put things right. And theyve added interest (about 
£81) for the delay in settling the claim. This is in line with what I would expect to see as a 
way of recognising the loss of use of funds Mr B suffered. I therefore think this is fair.
Aviva also paid Mr B £500 in compensation to recognise that they didnt handle things as 
well as they shouldve. I know Mr B feels strongly about this matter as he considers Aviva acted grossly negligent in their handling of the claim. Because of this, he thinks Aviva should 
take more responsibility. Ive given this careful consideration but, having done so, I think 
£500 - in addition to the interest paid  is fair here. Although its difficult to place a monetary 
figure on the trouble and upset an individual suffers, particularly at a time of grieving, I think 
its a reasonable amount to recognise that Mr B had to contact Aviva on several occasions to 
progress the claim and for the confusion about the sum assured caused by the May 2021 
statement. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr B is hoping for but, for the above reasons, Im not directing 
Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman