DRN-3008493
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia (and 
referred to throughout as Britannia) treated them unfairly by refusing to extend the term of 
their mortgage. They are also unhappy that, when the fixed-term interest rate on their 
mortgage came to an end, their payments increased. Mr and Mrs D have also complained 
about poor customer service when they were misquoted an incorrect redemption figure, 
which resulted in them having to find an additional £1,000 to make up the shortfall on 
redemption of the mortgage. They were also upset to receive a letter about mortgage 
arrears.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs D want Britannia to compensate them for the increased 
mortgage repayments for the period September 2020 to December 2020 inclusive, and pay 
compensation for the other errors the bank made.
What happened
At the time of the events giving rise to this complaint, Mr and Mrs D had an interest-only 
mortgage with Britannia. The account notes show that as far back as 2008 Mr and Mrs D 
had explained that the repayment vehicle for the mortgage was the sale of an overseas 
property. 
The original mortgage term had ended in 2015, and, at Mr and Mrs Ds request, Britannia 
extended this for a further three years. However, in 2017 Mr and Mrs D explained to 
Britannia that they were in the middle of renovating the overseas property with a view to 
selling it, but unfortunately Mr D had been diagnosed with a serious illness. 
On 14 September 2017 Britannia extended the mortgage term for a further three years. The 
mortgage offer explains that, assuming the mortgage starts on that date, there will be 25 
payments at a rate of 1.49%, followed by one payment at a variable rate of 4.49% 
(discounted by 0.25% if Mr and Mrs D were members of Unison at the time). Mr and Mrs D 
accepted the term extension.
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs D asked for a further extension. They explained that the renovation 
of the overseas property had come to a half due to Mr Ds illness. They also explained that, 
due to the pandemic, they were having to shield at home. Mr and Mrs D wanted Britannia to 
extend the term for a further two years, until September 2022.
Although sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, Britannia noted that there had 
already been two long-term extensions  in 2015 and 2018  and that Mr and Mrs D had 
said as far back as 2008 that they were renovating and selling the overseas property as the 
repayment vehicle. In the circumstances, Britannia agreed to a short, informal extension to 
31 December 2020 for the mortgage to be redeemed. Britannia wrote to Mr and Mrs D on 
16 April 2020 to confirm this.
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs D asked again for a two-year extension. They explained that theyd 
been looking at other options, including equity release, but this wasnt an option due to the 
loan to value ratio of their existing mortgage. Mr and Mrs D explained they had about 
£70,000 set aside to cover the remaining work that needed to be done on the overseas 
property, but thought it was going to take another two years to get the work done.
After reviewing the account, Britannia wasnt able to agree to a two-year extension; the 
existing extension to December 2020 was to remain in place.
The fixed rate on the mortgage ended came to an end in August 2020, and so from 
1 September 2020 the payments reverted to the variable rate set out in the mortgage offer, 
increasing from around £400 per month to about £1,200 per month. Britannia wrote to 
Mr and Mrs D about this on 1 August 2020. 
Mr and Mrs D were very unhappy about the increase in the monthly payment. They asked 
for a payment holiday, and explained they were re-mortgaging to another lender. Britannia 
looked at Mr and Mrs Ds income and expenditure and, even taking into account the 
mortgage repayment, they had disposable income of almost £1,400 per month. 
Mr and Mrs D raised a complaint, saying that it was not morally right for Britannia to increase 
the payments. They were unhappy that the letter they were sent in April 2020 about 
extending the term to December 2020 never mentioned any increase in the monthly 
repayment.
Whilst the complaint investigation was taking place, Mr and Mrs Ds re-mortgage was going 
ahead. On 17 November 2020 Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors requested a redemption statement 
made up to 24 November 2020, but Britannia didnt receive this until 24 November 2020. On 
that day, Mr D spoke to Britannia and asked for a redemption statement made up to 
3 December 2020. On the telephone he was given details of the capital balance, rather than 
a redemption statement (which includes additional costs required to close the mortgage 
account). 
Mr and Mrs D say that, as a result of the incorrect information provided by Britannia, they 
were left with a redemption shortfall of about £1,000, which they had to take out of their 
savings.
Mr and Mrs D were also unhappy that they received a letter about the cancellation of their 
direct debit and warning of arrears and referral to credit reference agencies. Britannia says 
this was a system-generated letter sent in error. A complaint was also raised because 
Mr and Mrs D had received a letter acknowledging their complaint on The Co-operative 
Banks letterhead. Britannia didnt think this had caused any loss or inconvenience, given 
that Britannia is part of The Co-Operative Bank.
Britannia acknowledged communication could have been better in relation to giving Mr D 
what he believed was a redemption figure over the phone (rather than just an account 
balance), but it didnt think it had resulted in any loss. Britannia said that Mr and Mrs D would 
already have known how much they were borrowing from their new lender and so ought to 
have been aware of the amount theyd need to cover any shortfall. However, for any 
confusion Mr D might have been caused, and because the letter about the direct debit 
cancellation had been sent in error, Britannia offered Mr and Mrs D compensation of £100.
Mr and Mrs D escalated their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator didnt think Britannia had acted unreasonably in declining a further term 
extension. She was also satisfied that Britannia had never led Mr and Mrs D to believe that 
their fixed rate would be extended to 31 December 2020  only the length of the mortgage 
term.In relation to the issues around communication, the investigator noted that Britannia had 
acknowledged some errors, and she thought the £100 offered by Britannia to put this right 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the investigators findings. They say that Britannia didnt write 
to them, either about the term extension in April 2020 or about the mortgage reverting to a 
variable rate in August 2020. They believe that the Financial Ombudsman Service has been 
misled by Britannia as to their existence.
Mr and Mrs D acknowledge they were expecting to have to make up a shortfall on 
redemption, but to have it increased by another £1,000 caused significant distress. 
Mr and Mrs D say they never requested a redemption date of 3 December 2020, because 
their intention was always to redeem in November 2020.
They are also unhappy at the lack of continuity in Britannias management of their mortgage 
account, and that they had to deal with different members of staff.
Mr and Mrs D also raised concerns about the way Britannia had dealt with their complaint, 
and said they were treated aggressively by Britannia.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I apologise for the length of time Mr and Mrs D and Britannia have had to wait for a 
decision on this complaint. I know Mr D has been in poor health, and I am sure that the 
pandemic has contributed to his and Mrs Ds worries. I hope that Mr D is now in better 
health.
Its not disputed that this mortgage was originally due to be repaid in 2015. Because Mr and 
Mrs D were unable to repay it at the time, a term extension was agreed, for three years, 
which was due to expire in 2018. But before that term had expired, in 2017 Mr and Mrs D 
asked for another term extension, which was granted to the end of September 2020.
Following the 2014 mortgage market review, in 2016 the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, had put in place new rules about interest-only mortgages, requiring lenders to 
assess their affordability, and to scrutinise the viability of any repayment strategy. However, 
to ensure that existing mortgage customers were not unfairly penalised by these changes, 
the rules allowed lenders to waive certain requirements around assessing affordability in 
certain circumstances. As existing customers, pre-dating the mortgage market review, not 
asking for any new borrowing, Mr and Mrs D fell into this category when their request to 
extend the term for the second time in 2017 was made. 
The term was extended for a further three years. Although Mr and Mrs D asked for a further 
two years in April 2020, I dont think it was unreasonable for Britannia to decline that request. 
One of the reasons why a lender can extend a mortgage term for existing borrowers is 
where the term extension is considered to be in their best interests. But Im not persuaded that a further two-year extension to September 2022 would have been in Mr and Mrs Ds 
best interests. 
I say this because by that time theyd already had twelve years from the time theyd first told 
Britannia they were renovating and selling the overseas property as their repayment vehicle. 
It was also five years since the original mortgage had expired, during which time thered 
been two formal term extensions. So in all the circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Britannia to decline the further two-year extension. Whilst I acknowledge 
the pandemic affected the renovation of the property, I think that the length of time already 
taken to deal with the renovations is indicative that, the more time that was granted, the less 
likely it was that the property would be finished in a timely manner. Indeed, that is what 
appears to have happened in relation to the previous two term extensions.
So overall, I dont think Britannia was wrong to decline the term extension in April 2020. I do 
think it was fair for Britannia to extend the term, informally, to 31 December 2020. I note that 
Mr and Mrs D say they never received the letter about this, but I can see that it was correctly 
addressed to them, and it wasnt returned as undelivered, which would have been noted in 
Britannias records. 
The letter confirms the term extension to 31 December 2020 and says that all other terms of 
the mortgage remain the same. The fixed rate expired on 31 August 2020, and so from 
September onwards the mortgage was on a variable rate of interest.
Mr and Mrs D say this came as a shock to them, but Im satisfied Britannia wrote to Mr and 
Mrs D on 1 August 2020 telling them the fixed rate was due to end and explaining what their 
new payments were. Again, Mr and Mrs D say they didnt receive this letter, but Im satisfied 
it was correctly addressed and wasnt returned to Britannia.
Mr and Mrs D have suggested that Britannia has fabricated these letters for the purpose of 
this complaint. I do not find that to be the case, given that the letter of 6 April 2020 is 
referenced in the contemporaneous account notes, and the letter of 1 August 2020 is a 
system-generated letter, automatically sent out to all customers whose fixed rates are about 
to expire.
Mr and Mrs D believe Britannia should reimburse them for the difference in the mortgage 
repayment between the fixed rate and the variable rate which they paid from 1 September 
2020 to the date of redemption of the mortgage. But I can see no basis on which this would 
be fair or reasonable. The fixed rate had come to an end on 31 August 2020, and the term 
extension contract to which Mr and Mrs D had agreed in 2017 provided for the mortgage to 
move onto a variable rate. Im satisfied that Britannia did not say to Mr and Mrs D that the 
informal term extension to 31 December 2020 would be on a fixed rate.
I appreciate there was confusion over the redemption statements. Britannia didnt receive 
the solicitors request dated 17 November 2020 for a redemption statement until 
24 November 2020  which is the day Mr and Mrs D wanted to redeem the mortgage. Ive 
seen the letter, and the printed fax header shows that this wasnt sent by the solicitors until 
8.18 am on 24 November 2020. 
When Mr D spoke to Britannia that same day, he was given the account balance, but 
Britannia has acknowledged that it wasnt made clear enough to Mr D that this wasnt the 
redemption figure. I cant see that Britannia made any other error in relation to the 
redemption statement. Britannia has acknowledged that Mr and Mrs D received a letter about the cancellation of 
their direct debit, which it accepts caused them distress. 
For this, and for its mistake in not being clear enough about the information given to Mr D 
during the phone call on 24 November 2020, Britannia has offered compensation of £100. I 
think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. It is proportionate to the errors 
made and for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In relation to the way in which Britannia dealt with the complaint  including sending a 
holding letter on letterhead from The Co-Operative Bank  I will explain that complaint-
handling isnt a regulated activity and so falls outside the scope of our rules. I therefore make 
no comment about this part of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
In relation to the other issues, I dont uphold the complaint. I find Britannia acted fairly and 
reasonably in respect of its decision not to allow a further two-year term extension. Im also 
not persuaded that it would be fair to order Britannia to reimburse Mr and Mrs D for the 
higher mortgage repayments they had to make after 1 September 2020, pursuant to the 
terms of their mortgage contract.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs D were hoping for, but, other than the minor 
customer service issues for which Britannia has offered £100 compensation, Im satisfied the 
bank has done nothing wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs D to 
decide if they want to accept the £100 offered by The Co-Operative Bank Plc trading as 
Britannia in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman