DRN-3571231
The complaint
Mr R complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Portal Financial Services 
LLP (Portal) to transfer a defined-benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with a 
former employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
What happened
Mr R sought advice from Portal about his OPS. On 14 January 2014, after first speaking with 
Mr R, Portal wrote to him noting his OPS had a transfer value of £57,942. It set out the 
critical yield and identified some options available to Mr R, including doing nothing or 
transferring the benefits to access tax free cash (TFC) with different options for his remaining 
fund. 
On 3 February 2014, Portal gathered information about Mr Rs circumstances and 
objectives. At the time, Mr R was 55 years old and living with his wife. He was employed, 
earning £19,500 per year and he had no savings. He told Portal he lived in a property he 
owned worth around £150,000, with an outstanding mortgage of £110,000. Mr R had debts 
totalling £10,000 in a debt management plan that he was repaying at £340 per month. It also 
notes that Mr R told Portal he was regularly overdrawn, incurring bank charges. And Portal 
said Mr R had a moderately cautious attitude to risk. 
On 5 February 2014, Portal wrote to him summarising some of his OPS benefits and it 
recommended he didnt transfer out of this. It said that if he still wished to go ahead with the 
transfer then it could help him. And included was an options form and an insistent client 
form. The option form asked him to choose between:
Option 1: Income drawdown  Taking TFC of £14,485.50, with the remainder being 
reinvested until he required an income. He would be treated as an insistent client.
Option 2: Do Nothing  Our recommendation. 
On 17 February 2014, after Mr R had signed and returned the forms, Portal sent him a 
suitability report which said his aims were to take TFC to clear debt and put towards living 
costs and an emergency fund. It said Mr R also had an overdraft of £1,300. And that despite 
the fact find noting he had a disposable household income of £500 per month, Mr R told it 
hes regularly overdrawn, incurring bank charges. It went on to say that, although it 
recommended Mr R leave his OPS where it was, it was treating him as an insistent client 
and recommended he transfer his benefits into a new SIPP to take TFC. It also 
recommended he invest some of his fund in the following:
Lakeview  9.19%
Real Estate  12.17%
Strategic Residential  9.19%
Tambaba  9.19%
Mr R accepted the insistent client recommendation. The SIPP was established shortly after 
and the value of his OPS, which had increased to £61,245.40, was invested (after hed taken 
TFC). Mr R then went on to take a further taxable lump sum in 2015.
In 2021, Mr R complained to Portal, in summary, that it advised him to invest in unsuitable 
funds, which caused him a financial loss and meant he couldnt access all his funds when he 
wanted to. Mr R said Portal didnt tell him some of his investments were illiquid. He also 
complained that he didnt meet Portal face to face, receive ongoing reviews or advice from it 
or performance updates, despite paying it a fee for this. 
In response, Portal said Mr R had made his complaint too late for our Service to consider it. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R brought his complaint to us, adding that he used the TFC to repay 
debts, as he had no other funds to do this. 
We decided we could consider Mr Rs complaint about the suitability of the advice and the 
service he received from it, as it had been made in time. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint and said that while his circumstances 
may explain why he sought TFC, she didnt think that advising Mr R to invest in high risk 
funds was appropriate. So, she thought Mr R should be compensated for the unsuitable 
advice and that Portal should pay Mr R £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Portal didnt agree. In summary, it said the SIPP was low cost and Mr Rs pension could be 
invested in mainstream funds within it. It said the transfer allowed Mr R to take TFC without 
having to commit to taking an annual income. And that the SIPP it recommended is suitable 
for pensions the size of Mr Rs. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Portal said Mr Rs complaint was brought to our Service too late for us to consider it. I dont 
intend to revisit that, given an Ombudsman has already given a decision explaining why hes 
satisfied Mr R brought this complaint about the suitability of the investments in time and that 
its one I can consider. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Having 
done so, while I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed, Im not upholding his complaint for 
largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from an OPS scheme is that 
its unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that this was in Mr Rs best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Portal doesnt dispute that Mr R would be worse off in retirement by transferring out of his 
OPS. For this reason, it advised Mr R against transferring out of the scheme and instead 
treated Mr R as an insistent client. And while there might have been some flaws in its 
insistent client process, Ive thought about whether Mr R wouldve gone ahead anyway even 
if the process had been delivered more fairly and Mr R had been able to make an informed 
choice.The documentation shows Mr R wanted TFC to clear his debts and put towards living costs 
and an emergency fund. Ive taken into account that the fact find shows most of Mr Rs debt 
was in a debt management plan and that he still had a disposable income, suggesting he 
didnt have a pressing need to repay his debts or to access TFC to do so. But both it and the 
suitability report go on to show that Mr R didnt agree he had a disposable income, as he 
was using his overdraft to live and incurring bank charges.
While it appears Portal explored some alternative ways to generate cash to achieve Mr Rs 
objectives, it doesnt seem to have explored whether he could have negotiated a more 
affordable repayment to his debt management plan. But, even if it had, I cant safely say    
Mr R would have been able to achieve this or that it would have resolved the problems he 
was experiencing meeting his expenses. 
It doesnt seem that Mr R could have accessed his OPS benefits early and taken TFC from it 
instead. And, in any case, it looks like he wouldnt have been able to achieve nearly as much 
TFC as he needed by doing so, as the documentation says he may only have been entitled 
to £6,285.31. 
I also note that Mr R hasnt disputed that he needed to access TFC to repay his debts. 
Instead hes told us he needed to do this and that he had no other means to do so. In which 
case, given the situation Mr R was in I think he had a strong need for TFC which could only 
be achieved by transferring his OPS benefits. And for this reason, overall, I dont think Mr R 
wouldve decided against transferring out of his DB scheme, despite the fact it would leave 
him worse off in retirement, if Portal had given him all the necessary information and 
properly considered the alternatives. 
While I think Mr Rs desire to access TFC means he wouldve proceeded with the transfer, 
that doesnt mean Portals advice was suitable overall. And I dont think it was in light of the 
investments it recommended Mr R invest in within his SIPP. Ill explain why. 
Portal said Mr R was a moderately cautious risk investor, which doesnt appear to be in 
dispute. I note Mr R was a standard retail investor, with no investment experience or 
savings. And Mr Rs said this pension was his main retirement provision, which means it was 
one of his biggest assets. So I think his capacity for loss in respect of it was low. 
Yet based on Portals advice, a significant part of the funds in Mr Rs SIPP was invested in 
UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here, when it said that as well 
as these only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, high 
net worth investors), for example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a clients exposure to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr R at all, and 
certainly not in the proportion invested, given theres nothing to indicate he had the requisite 
knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these types of 
investments. 
I can see Mr R was made aware some of the investments were illiquid in the suitability 
report. But it went on to focus on the rewards these would produce. And I think Mr R went 
ahead because he trusted Portals advice. Had it recommended he invest in mainstream, 
regulated funds in line with his attitude to risk, which I think would have been suitable advice, 
I think hed have done so for that same reason.
In summary, I think the investments Portal recommended were unsuitable, given these were 
likely to lead to Mr R being exposed to far more risk than appropriate. And I dont think he 
had the capacity for loss that investments like this carry. Instead, I think suitable advice would have been for him to invest in regulated mainstream funds. Had Portal given suitable 
advice, I think Mr Rs likely to have invested in that way.
Therefore, I think a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice is 
to use a benchmark based on an investment strategy in line with his circumstances and 
attitude to risk. Mr R also raised concerns that he didnt receive an ongoing service from 
Portal, despite paying it an ongoing adviser fee from his pension. And I think this redress 
fairly compensates him for this, as it gives Mr R the return he ought to have achieved when 
bearing in mind his circumstances and risk profile, while also taking into account that he 
would have been paying for ongoing advice. 
Im satisfied this matter has also caused Mr R distress  this is because he wanted to 
withdraw funds from his pension but couldnt do so because the investments were illiquid. 
So, Portal should pay him £250 compensation. I think this is a fair amount to make up for 
this in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr R back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Portals unsuitable advice.
I think Mr R would have invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Rs 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with the benchmark shown below. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr R £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice, which has led to a significant loss.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Portal 
should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr R provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
Fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically. The SIPP only exists because of illiquid investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive 
set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr C can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Ive chosen this method of compensation because: 
Mr R wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Rs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr R would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr R could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the amount calculated as set 
out above. It should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman