DRN-3841127
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs K complains about the acts of Mr K. It says the person with power 
of attorney for Mrs K believed Mrs K was investing money through Mr K (on Mr Ks advice) 
but its now clear Mr K kept most of the money himself. It says Quilter Financial Limited 
(Quilter) is responsible because Mr K was with a business that was an appointed 
representative of Quilter at the relevant time.
What happened
I can see from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register that Mr K worked for a 
business between 6 January 2010 and 31 December 2012. That business seems to have 
consistently used the trading name of CFC Financial Services (CFC) when dealing with 
Mrs K and her estate. This is therefore the name Ive used throughout this decision. CFC 
has been an appointed representative of Quilter since 5 October 2010.
The estate of Mrs K says she became unwell and was going to need to pay care home fees 
so Mr K  a family member and financial adviser  advised that Sterling investment bonds be 
set up using a discounted trust (bare) trust deed. Sterling has explained that this type of 
bond allows a donor to make a gift to a trust that isnt treated for inheritance tax as a 
settlement to enjoy a tax efficient series of regular withdrawals whilst ensuring that on the 
donors death, the funds are available to the named beneficiaries in a tax efficient manner.
Two of these bonds were set up initially  one for £140,00 on 25 May 2010. And one for 
£280,000 on 18 June 2010. Ive been provided with some of the documentation for these two 
bonds. This shows they were sold by Mr R and Mr K of CFC. These bonds and the 
withdrawals from them are the subject of separate complaints.
Later that year, Mrs Ks house was sold and there was a further £380,000 to invest. The 
estate of Mrs K says Mr K again advised a Sterling investment bond be set up  in exactly 
the same way as before.
Ive been provided with a Sterling bond illustration for £380,000 dated 14 December 2010. 
Mrs K and Mr K were named as joint applications and trustees and the application was 
witnessed by Mr K. Sterling has searched its records and can see an application for this third 
bond. But it says no money was ever received and the bond was never started. Mr K has 
since confirmed that he didnt invest this money and instead misappropriated it.
This decision relates to the £380,000 that Mrs K paid to Mr K in December 2010 that wasnt 
invested in a Sterling bond.
Ive set out below an extract from Mr Ks sentencing hearing as this is useful background in 
explaining what happened next:
In February 2014 [Mrs K] passed away, and the probate process caused things to 
begin to unravel for [Mr K]. Because of his expertise, the family tasked him with 
requesting the funds from the trusts in order to distribute [Mrs Ks] estate in 
accordance with her wishes
Probate on the [K] estate was granted in March 2015, and in July 2015 the family 
solicitor contacted [the representative of Mrs Ks estate] to advise her that HMRC had 
some concerns over some of the withdrawals from the bonds and would be 
investigating them. Again, [Mr K] was trusted by the family with liaising with HMRC 
throughout this process, due to his expertise and previous involvement.
In July 2016 HMRC allowed the release of bonds 1 and 2, but the family had heard 
nothingabout the third bond, which they had asked [Mr K] to create using the 
money from the proceeds of the sale of [Mrs Ks] property. The family began to feel 
that [Mr K] was giving them the run-around. But, ultimately, because he was their 
son and brother, they trusted him.
Several members of [Mr Ks] family were relying on receiving their inheritance from 
their grandmother and mother in order to buy property, or get married
In September 2017 [a member of the family] received documentation for a life 
insurance policy that had been taken out for him by [Mr Ks] company, CFC Financial 
Services. [He] became suspicious and went to see [the managing director] of CFC 
Financial Services, who wasalso the trustee for bond 1. During this visit [the 
managing director] disclosedthat he had been removed as a trustee from that bond 
sometime ago. Which meant, effectively, that [Mr K] had sole control over both bond 
1 and bond 2.
The family had had their concerns and doubts about [Mr Ks] prevarications and 
excuses for some time, but they had put their concerns out of their minds on the 
basis that he was family and that they trusted him. However, after the issues with the 
life insurance policiesand the information that [Mr K] had taken sole charge of the 
trusts without telling them, the family began to suspect that [Mr K] had, in fact, 
already cashed in the bonds and that was the real reason for the delay in them 
receiving their money.
They informed [Mr Ks] motherwho confronted [Mr K] over the telephone about it, 
and his response, according to her statement, was simply as follows Mum, youre 
not going to like this, but Ive spent the money and I never invested the money from 
the sale of Grannys house. When she asked how much money remained, [Mr K] 
told [her] that there was around £300,000 left. [She] flew home from her holiday, and 
once she returned [Mr K] transferred £305,264 into her bank account.
Mr K was later convicted of fraud and given a prison sentence.
The estate of Mrs K complained to Quilter on 16 December 2019. Quilter issued a final 
response letter saying it wasnt responsible. In summary, it said:
The police investigation said Mr K was solely responsible for the fraud and didnt 
mention Quilter at any time.
It has Mrs K as a client on its system but has no documentation for any of the 
investment bonds.
Mr K acted outside its authority and the permissions he held through it. His actions 
were out of its control.
An investigator was satisfied we could consider the complaint and that it should be upheld. 
In summary, he said:He was satisfied thered been a regulated activity  advice had been given on a 
specified investment.
Quilters omission from the police report isnt determinative. It was responsible 
because Mr K was most likely acting as CFC when he gave the advice, and he was 
authorised by it to give advice on Sterling bonds. 
If everything had happened as it should have, Mrs K would have invested in a 
Sterling bond identical to the two shed previously invested in. 
Quilter didnt agree. It noted that it seemed Mr K had returned some money to Mrs Ks 
estate, and it raised an issue with the date being used to calculate compensation. It also said 
the estate of Mrs K had raised the complaint too late.
The investigator therefore issued further views addressing Quilters comments on 
compensation and its time bar objection. He was still satisfied we could consider the 
complaint and that it should be upheld. But he updated the compensation he felt was 
appropriate to deduct a proportion of the money that had been returned and to reflect the 
fact it was likely the £380,000 bond would have been surrendered on 6 April 2017 (the date 
the two genuine ones were) if itd been genuine.
Quilter hasnt said whether itd be prepared to pay compensation in line with the 
investigators view. But given the length of time since the final view, the issue has been 
passed to me for a decision. Ive read and considered everything Quilter has said. In 
summary, its said:
There should be one complaint for the issues raised.
A decision should be made on the jurisdiction issues first. 
Jurisdiction is a matter of law that requires legal analysis  it doesnt involve 
consideration of whats fair and reasonable.
The events complained about were more than six years ago and Mrs Ks estate 
ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint more than three years 
before it complained. Probate was granted in March 2015 and Mrs Ks estate was 
told HMRC had concerns about the bonds and had started an investigation in 
July 2015. The first two bonds were released in July 2016 but not the third bond and 
this ought reasonably to have caused concern.
The estate of Mrs K didnt need to know for certain that it had cause for complaint, it 
just needed to know enough that it ought reasonably to have investigated further.
The sentencing hearing said things started to unravel for Mr K during the probate 
process and it referred to the family being concerned when HMRC questioned the 
bonds and starting to feel as though Mr K was giving them the run-around. Time 
therefore started to run in July 2015 when HMRC began investigating and probate 
was delayed. And the estate definitely ought to have realised there was an issue by 
July 2016 when the first two bonds were released but not the third.
Checks should be made to find out whether any further money has been returned to 
Mrs Ks estate.What Ive decided  how many complaints have been made
The FCA Handbook defines a complaint as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on 
behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, 
claims management service or a redress determination, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, 
material distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with 
whom that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing 
financial services or products or claims management services, which 
comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The key question here is whether the complaint is about one or more provisions of a 
financial service. 
The investigator was satisfied three financial services had been provided to Mrs K and so set 
up three complaints  one for each of the two genuine bonds and one for the fictional bond.
Quilter says these were all one financial service and should therefore be considered in the 
same complaint. I dont agree. Instead, I agree with the investigator that the fictional bond 
being considered in this decision involved a separate financial service.
As Ive set out above, Mrs K had more money available approximately six months after the 
genuine bonds had been set up. The estate of Mrs K has been consistent and plausible that 
when this additional money became available, Mr Ks advice was sought. And given there 
was such a relationship of trust between Mrs K and her family and Mr K, I think its most 
likely their recollections are an accurate reflection of how things operated and what actions 
were taken when more money became available.
Im therefore satisfied a new financial service was provided by Mr K in relation to the 
£380,000 he was given in December 2010 and so this should be the subject of a separate 
complaint.
This decision therefore only considers the £380,000 paid in December 2010 that the estate 
of Mrs K says was intended to be put into a Sterling bond.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
I agree with Quilter that I cant decide jurisdiction on the basis of what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. Thats the basis on which the merits of the 
complaint will be determined if, but only if, we have jurisdiction to consider it.
I accept that jurisdiction involves considering the rules and law. But Id add that if there are 
any disputed issues of fact that I need to resolve to help me decide either jurisdiction or the 
merits of the complaint, it falls to me to decide them according to the balance of probability.
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is in the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.
Was the complaint made too late?This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the FCAs Handbook of Rules and Guidance.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limitswas as a result of exceptional circumstances.
The advice complained about here was in December 2010. The estate of Mrs K complained 
to Quilter on 16 December 2019. So, the complaint is outside the first part of the time limit  
i.e. it was made more than six years after the events complained about.
The issue for me to decide is therefore whether the complaint was also made outside the 
second part of the time limit  i.e. whether it was made more than three years after the 
estate of Mrs K knew, or ought reasonably to have known, it had cause for complaint.
The estate of Mrs K says it didnt know it had cause for complaint until September 2017  
when the family confronted Mr K and he admitted what hed done  and the complaint was 
made within three years of that date. It says up to that point thered been frustration with 
delays caused by Mr K but nothing more. 
Quilter says the estate of Mrs K ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint 
earlier than this. I agree with Quilter that a complainant doesnt have to know for certain that 
something has gone wrong, or the full extent of whats gone wrong, for the purpose of the 
time limit rules. Ive therefore considered whether anything ought reasonably to have made 
the estate of Mrs K aware of cause for complaint more than three years before it complained 
with this in mind.
Probate being delayed
The sentencing hearing said things started to unravel for Mr K during the probate process. 
Its likely this was the case as this was the point that things started to be looked into in detail 
and questions asked of Mr K. However, just because Mr K knew that his story was about to 
be tested and exposed, doesnt mean that the estate of Mrs K knew that anything was 
wrong.If probate was delayed  which its not clear to me it was  I havent been provided with 
anything that suggests this was because of any concerns or issues connected with the 
Sterling investment bonds. 
HMRC concerns in July 2015
Ive been provided with a letter from HMRC to the probate solicitor dated 25 March 2015 
saying it was considering the values of the arrangements which were returned in the 
inheritance tax account and reconciling the discounted gift values so it needed information.
A further letter from HMRC to the probate solicitor dated 1 October 2015 read:
I note that you have been advised by the Financial Advisor that we should have 
received all the requested information from Sterling. On reviewing my file, and also 
after speaking to my colleague at the Boards Actuarial Office, I can advise that we 
have not received all the information requested. We have only received the certified 
copy of the death certificate sent in with your letter dated 16 June 2015.
Please contact either the Financial Advisor or Sterling to advise that we have not 
received the information requested and ask that it now be forwarded on to us. I look 
forward to hearing from you.
Mr K then emailed the probate solicitor on 21 October 2015 saying:
See the docs attached in relation to the 3 investments made. These were sent to [the 
probate solicitors firm] via email on 27th Jan 2015 so you should have them on file  
no worries if not.
This information was provided to HMRC in April 2015 shortly after our initial letter 
from them requesting copies etc. Copy of my covering letter to follow. The items that 
are not included are the GP reports and age additional details  these were sent as 
the letter instructed to HMRC at the address quoted at the end of August 2015.
I note that the latest letter from HMRC is from a different individual at a different 
address. However I have spoken to her and she has given me an email address I 
can send the docs to along with her address via the post. I have sent the 
attachments in this email to her last week.
Sterling have to reissue the GP docs now due to the time taken and the fact that now 
i have left CFC i cannot access the secure mail server in which they sent the original 
docs to me. I made a call to them on Thursday 15th October to chase these and they 
informed me it would take a maximum of 11 days to provide this documentation. 
They have my telephone and email details to contact me in relation to this query and 
have confirmed this will be done by 30th October latest after a conversation i have 
had with them this afternoon.
I would re iterate that HMRC have indicated that they will review the investments 
made and decide if the level of discount was prudent or excessive. When we know 
the outcome of this we may, depending on the size of any bill, need to take action 
against Sterling in this regard. If you can therefore wait for HMRC to reach a verdict 
I would be most grateful so we do not incur any further costs your end.
I have some further docs on file that I need to scan and send in relation to this and I 
will get this done tomorrow as these docs merely service to pad out the file for HMRC 
and may help us in any action we take with Sterling.Mr K then emailed HMRC on 22 October 2015 saying:
Following on from our conversation the week before last I have attached the trust 
docs and bond schedules for the 3 investments made.
I have also requested that Sterling provide the GP reports and age addition details to 
you as well. Given the importance of collating this information correctly they had 
advised this should be ready on 30th October 2015. They will also confirm any rates 
of withdrawals at this time.
I can only apologies [sic] for the delays with this as it was our understanding that the 
docs had already been sent to you. I am in the process of collating copy 
correspondence for this but in any event we need to get the information to you in 
order to process a decision.
I would be grateful if you can confirm receipt of this email so I know you have the 
information contained within.
If there are any other items outstanding then please do not hesitate to contact me 
and I will aim to get them over to you as soon as possible.
HMRC replied the same day saying:
Thank you for this. Once the GP reports and age addition have been received, I will 
forward all the information to our Boards Actuarial Office to be considered.
Thats no problem, you had thought we already had the information requested, so the 
delays could not be helped.
I will check my file and if there is anything else outstanding, I will let you know.
The probate solicitor then emailed Mr K on 31 October 2015 saying:
I know we are all keen to finalise the Estate as soon as we can and since there has 
been a considerable delay I thought it was worthwhile contacting HMRC again just to 
clarify what they had received and hence what they were still waiting for.
I therefore telephonedthe relevant caseworker at HMRC on Friday who said that so 
far they had received nothing from either Sterling or you. They [sic] only thing they 
have received is the certified copy death certificate which I sent to them. She 
acknowledges that she was not the same person who started the case but she has 
checked with the person/office who started the matter and they had [not] received 
anything from you either.
You said in your email of 21 October that copy documents were sent to [the probate 
solicitors firm] on 27th January but we have no record of having received an email on 
that day (the only email activity on that day was an email which I sent to your Mother 
responding to an email I received from her of 26th January saying that I still had not 
received any information in relation to the three discounted gift trusts). In the same 
email of 21st October you said you would send to me a copy of your covering letter to 
HMRC of April 2015. I look forward to receiving a copy of that letter as it might be 
useful.
I should be grateful if you would send to HMRC copies of all documents which they 
originally requested in their letter of 25th Match [sic] 2015 and send me a copy of that 
letter.Mr K then emailed the probate solicitor on 2 November 2015 saying:
I enclose a copy of an email toHMRC dated 22 October 2015 which shows she has 
received the trust docs and schedules for the 3 investments.
As per her letter the only items that are outstanding are the age addition calculation 
and any GP records. As per my conversation on Friday 30th October 2015 with 
Sterling they are sending me this information today so in the interests of 
thoroughness I will re email everything to HMRC and will of course do hard copy in 
the post.
I can send over the letter to HMRC from earlier in the year at some stage tomorrow 
when I am in the office.
I enclose two email copies from Jan 2015 which show the trusts were also send [sic] 
to [the probate solicitors firm] on 27/01/2015  I do not propose we get carried away 
with this as at this stage we had no idea the trusts were going to be challenged by 
HMRC. However, the emails should be placed on file.
I will confirm receipt with [HMRC] later on today that she has everything she needs.
Can I ask you to send a copy of the grant of probate? This is so I can prepare the 
trusts to be dispersed pending HMRCs decision.
The next letter from HMRC Ive been provided with is dated 3 December 2015 (again to the 
probate solicitor). This said it was accepting first two bonds, but in relation to the third it 
looks as if there has been some kind of mistake and it talks about there being some 
inconsistencies. HMRC therefore asked for:
A copy of the remainder of the trust deed (only pages one to six have been 
provided)
Confirmation of the value, frequency and start date of the regular withdrawals
Confirmation from Sterling that a Basic basis of mortality is applicable to this 
arrangement.
Ive carefully considered all of these emails and letters. I accept it seems as though the 
probate solicitor was getting frustrated with Mr K not doing what hed been asked and what 
hed said hed done. And I accept the letter from HMRC talks about a mistake and 
inconsistencies. But taking everything into account, Im satisfied these would have simply 
seemed like administrative issues to Mrs Ks estate. Theres nothing in the letters from 
HMRC that suggests it had any real concerns or that one of the bonds might not exist. And 
Im satisfied it would have simply seemed as though HMRC was following its processes and 
making sure it had everything it needed, and Mr K wasnt quite as on top of complying with 
the requests as he should have been.
Whilst this would have been frustrating for Mrs Ks estate, Im not persuaded theres 
anything that ought reasonably to have made them aware of cause for complaint. The emails 
seemed to be genuine and to contain genuine documents. I also note that the probate 
solicitor didnt raise any concerns with Mrs Ks estate about the legitimacy of the third bond.
The fact the third bond wasnt released in July 2016
The probate solicitor emailed Mr K on 8 August 2016 saying:There were three Discounted Gift Trusts referred to in the Probate papers and the 
Revenue have allowed the smaller two but all the queries they are raising are in 
relation to the Sterling Investment Bond when £380,000 was invested in 
January 2011. The discount was £41,800 and if that discount was not allowed by 
HMRC (which is currently the case) that would mean that the taxable Estate would 
be increased by £41,800 which would mean there would be further inheritance tax 
payable of about £17,000.
Could you please therefore ask Sterling for the information requested by HMRC and 
also let either us or HMRC have a full copy of the Trust deed.
Once again if you would prefer me to contact Sterling direct I shall be happy to do so.
Mr K replied the same day saying:
I will continue to ask for the information provided and I have already asked for copies 
of the trust deed which will be stamped by Sterling as file copy  this should show 
HMRC that the copy provided is the correct trust deed as I cannot find another trust 
on my electronic client database or indeed the paper file.
I will sort out asking for the medical evidence as this needs a letter from mum which I 
will collect on Wednesday.
Theres then a gap in the correspondence Ive been given. But on 13 June 2017 Mr K 
emailed the executor of Mrs Ks estate saying:
see the statements from inception to date  these show the withdrawals and values 
etc across the years which is part of the calc for HMRC and surrender
the HMRC doc does not show all the information needed
sterling have told me today they will re issue these docs by email to we [sic] in 3 
working days to complete this side of things
And on 18 July 2017 Mr K emailed the probate solicitor saying:
Just a quick one  I have been in contact with Sterling who are preparing me some 
documents to send into HMRC.
I have on file the trust deed, the mortality rating and documentation and the 
withdrawals summary  the only docs to go from Sterling to HMRC was the 
confidential medical evidence.
I also have an email from [HMRC] stating they had all the relevant paperwork twelve 
months ago but I want to be absolutely certain that when I speak to [HMRC] that I 
know what paperwork they have had historically and also if there is anything still 
missing.
The trust deed does seem to have some odd page numbers on it that appear out of 
sequence but this is the same document that is available to download via their IfA 
site today so I want to see the file copy that Sterling have rather than my photocopy 
of the original one. The same applies for the withdrawals made as well as I provided 
an illustration from the time of application and not the summary they can prepare for 
me. This will need to be done manually by sterling as well.Sterling have advised that it can take up to 15 working days to send this info to me 
via secure email so il wait for this and then see if there are any missing areas.
Mr K then emailed HMRC on 26 July 2017 saying:
Thank you for the letter of 28 June 2017.
I am somewhat surprised that the letter indicates that you do not have the contract 
rate of withdrawals and the signed trust deed as these have previously been supplied 
to HMRC, albeit not to your office, and have been confirmed as received.
I have attached the discount confirmation which shows the amount invested, the 
income taken, the amount outside of the estate by Sterlings assessment and a copy 
of the trust deed. I have no other documents on file, so I have been discussing this 
matter with Sterling as there was some mention of missing pages on the trust 
document. This is not the case as the trust attached matches the one Sterling have, 
but I have asked them to send me a copy which will be stamped file copy as well. 
This will take up to 15 working days as they have to retrieve the file from their 
archives.
I have asked for copies of the medical evidence to be sent to your office as indicated 
on the letter. I have no file copies of the GPR report or the medical questionnaire but 
again I will be obtaining file copies of these.
I have also enclosed the guide for Sterlings mortality assessment. 
I am happy for you to contact me on the mobile number below should you have any 
queries on the documentation attached.
Again, theres nothing included in these letters and emails that satisfies me Mrs Ks estate 
ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint at this time. The executor of Mrs Ks 
estate says they were told tax enquiries were normal. The probate solicitor and Mr K were 
dealing with HMRC and seemed to be providing what was asked for  albeit with delays  
and I think its important to note that again the probate solicitor never raised any concerns 
(other than about the delays).
Being given the run-around by Mr K
The estate of Mrs K accepts being frustrated by the delays Mr K was causing. The term run-
around seems to have been one that was used in the sentencing hearing with the benefit of 
hindsight. The representatives of Mrs Ks estate have been consistent and plausible in 
explaining that they simply thought there were delays. Mr K was a family member and its 
clear his family trusted him.
Whilst the estate of Mrs K now knows Mr Ks delays were a warning flag, Im satisfied based 
on everything Ive seen that none of the beneficiaries of the estate knew this at the time. And 
Im also satisfied it was reasonable to not know this at the time and to rely on the explanation 
they were given by their trusted registered financial adviser and the involvement of a probate 
solicitor. Its also clear that Mr K was very plausible and persuasive in how he carried out the 
fraud.
Taking everything into account, Ive not seen anything that satisfies me the estate of Mrs K 
ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint more than three years before the 
complaint. Im therefore satisfied the complaint was made within the time limits.Responsibility
I agree with the investigator that the fact Quilter wasnt named in the police reports and isnt 
criminally liable isnt determinative and that it may still be responsible for Mr Ks actions.
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). CFC (and therefore Mr K) wasnt directly 
authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Quilter. Quilter is an authorised 
firm. Its authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising 
on investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints 
about Quilter. And this includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Quilter was authorised to do. The 
starting point for deciding whether Quilter is responsible for the actions of Mr K here is to 
consider the terms of the contract between Quilter and CFC.
To decide whether Quilter is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts the estate of Mrs K has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts the estate of Mrs K has complained about?
The estate of Mrs K complains Mr K advised Mrs K to invest money through him in a 
genuine investment but its now clear he kept the money himself. 
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
agreeing to advise on investments and agreeing to arrange deals in investments is a 
regulated activity under Article 64 RAO.
To satisfy the definition of the activity under Article 53 RAO there must be advice and, as the 
investigator explained, the advice must:
Be to a person in their capacity as an investor or potential investor.
Relate to an investment thats a security or relevant investment.
Relate to the merits of buying, selling etc the investment.
Relate to a particular investment.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its most likely Mr K advised Mrs K to invest 
£380,000 into a Sterling bond in December 2010. Its also my view that Mr K agreed to 
arrange that investment. Im satisfied the Sterling bond was a specified investment. So, 
these acts therefore amounted to regulated activities.
Im satisfied that if an adviser advises a client to invest in a specified investment, theres 
regulated investment advice even if the adviser then intercepts the payment and steals the 
money. This is because, as the investigator explained, although buying an investment 
naturally follows investment advice, the actual purchase isnt part of the definition of the 
regulated activity of advising on investments. The subsequent arranging of the deal is a 
separate regulated activity under Article 25 RAO  even if the two activities normally run one 
into the other without much thought being given to that process.Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr K acting for?
To answer whether Quilter accepted responsibility for the acts complained of, the first 
question I need to satisfy myself of is whether Mr K was acting for Quilter when carrying out 
any of the acts.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied he was. I say this because he was named as an 
adviser on the two genuine bonds that were set up in May 2010 and June 2010 and its clear 
he advised on these two bonds in his role at CFC. He also asked a follow up question to 
Sterling on 7 June 2010 in his role at CFC. There isnt as much documentation for the 
fictional bond and the page where the adviser would be inserted isnt included. But Mr K was 
clearly involved  he was stated to be an applicant and a trustee and he witnessed the 
application. I havent seen any evidence that he held himself out as acting in his personal 
capacity or representing any other businesses for these events and I think its most likely he 
continued holding himself out as acting in the same capacity.
Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Quilter accepted responsibility for the acts 
complained about under the agreement it had with CFC.
The agreement with CFC
Quilter has accepted that Mr K was allowed to give advice on Sterling bonds under the 
appointed representative agreement. So, Im satisfied that Quilter did accept responsibility 
for Mr K advising Mrs K to invest £380,000 in a Sterling bond. 
What Ive decided  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quilter has argued that the merits of the complaint shouldnt be considered until the issue of 
jurisdiction is resolved. Ive set out above my view on jurisdiction. Ive made it clear how Ive 
approached the issue and that I havent based any part of my view on a consideration of 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
As its my view that I have jurisdiction and as both parties have been given the opportunity to 
comment on both jurisdiction and merits and, given the nature of our role to resolve 
complaints which are within our jurisdiction speedily and with minimal formality, I now set out 
my conclusions on the merits of the complaint of Mrs Ks estate also. I dont agree that the 
DISP rules or the caselaw Quilter has quoted mean this has to be done in separate 
decisions. And I note that the investigator told Quilter on several occasions that this might be 
the next step and to make sure it made any arguments it had in relation to merits and 
compensation.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied Mr K advised Mrs K to invest £380,000 in a Sterling bond 
but then failed to arrange that investment. He failed to do so because he was acting 
dishonestly. Instead, he paid Mrs Ks money into his account and used it for his own 
purposes. 
Mr Ks conduct in not arranging the recommended investment as hed agreed to do but 
instead stealing the money caused the estate of Mrs K to lose money. It also lost the 
investment return it could have earned on the money. Is it fair and reasonable that Quilter compensate the estate of Mrs K?
Clearly Quilter didnt actually authorise Mr K to steal Mrs Ks money. And it didnt receive it. 
So, the question is whether its fair to require Quilter to compensate the estate of Mrs K for 
the losses?
Ive found that Quilter is responsible for Mr Ks conduct because I consider the law would 
impose liability on Quilter for his actions. So, it isnt necessarily unfair to require Quilter to 
pay compensation for the losses caused by Mr Ks dishonesty. I dont have to follow the law 
but, bearing in mind the legal position, I do think it fair and reasonable to take as my starting 
point that I should ask Quilter to compensate the estate of Mrs K for the effect of Mr Ks 
actions unless theres a good reason why it shouldnt do so.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs K or her estate acted unreasonably in their 
belief that Mr K was conducting genuine Quilter business and was acting in their interests. 
They werent careless. They were the innocent victims of a dishonest financial adviser.
In my view its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to require Quilter to compensate 
the estate of Mrs K.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
estate of Mrs K as close to the position it would probably now be in if Mrs K had not 
entrusted Mr K with advising her on her investments.
In the particular circumstances of this case, it seems most likely that Mrs K would have 
invested the £380,000 that was misappropriated into the same type of Sterling bond that she 
actually did invest £420,000 in in May/June 2010. She seems to have been happy with this 
recommendation and it appears to have been in line with the risk profile.
Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs Ks 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
What should Quilter do?
To compensate the estate of Mrs K fairly, Quilter must:
Contact Sterling to obtain a notional value, as at 6 April 2017, of the £380,000 Mrs K 
thought shed invested. The £380,000 should be treated as though itd been invested 
on 14 December 2010 into a Sterling bond the same as the ones she did in fact 
invest in in. The two genuine Sterling bonds were surrendered on 6 April 2017 and 
whilst Ive considered whether all three would have been surrendered on an earlier 
date if the third bond had been genuine, this involves too many assumptions and Im 
satisfied its simpler and reasonable to assume they all would have been surrendered 
on 6 April 2017.
From 6 April 2017 to the date of settlement, interest of 8% simple a year should be 
added to the notional value to reflect the fact the estate has been without the money 
since then. Income tax may be payable on this interest. If Quilter considers its 
required by HMRC to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell the estate of 
Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give an appropriate certificate showing 
this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Pay this notional value  less money returned (explained below)  to Mrs Ks estate.Provide the details of the calculation in a clear, simple format.
Money returned to Mrs Ks estate
I understand that Mr K returned £305,241.66 which was then distributed amongst Mrs Ks 
estate. Quilter should deduct a proportion of this from the notional value at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
The proportion to be deducted here will be £380,000 as a proportion of the total amount 
Mr K misappropriated from Mrs Ks estate.
Quilter has asked us to confirm whether any other money has been returned. The 
investigator asked questions about this and was satisfied no other money has been 
returned. Im satisfied with the investigation thats been carried out on this and so I make no 
further deductions.
Quilter may require that the estate of Mrs K provides an undertaking to pay it any 
repayments it may receive in the future. Although if Quilter chooses to limit compensation 
to our award limit, the undertaking should only apply to any amounts received once the 
estate of Mrs K has been fully compensated in line with this decision. Quilter will need to 
meet any cost in drawing up the undertaking.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Quilter Financial Limited should pay the 
estate of Mrs K the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
plus any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Quilter Financial Limited pays the estate of Mrs K the 
balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Quilter Financial Limited 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that the estate of Mrs K can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. The estate of Mrs K may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman