DRN-3465404
The complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. paid him when he made a claim on his Guaranteed Asset 
Protection (GAP) motor insurance policy. He wants the payment he expected and 
compensation for his time spent on the claim. 
What happened
Mr Ms car was stolen, and he made claim to his motor insurer and to Mapfre. Mr M 
expected Mapfre to pay him the difference between his invoice price for his car and the 
motor insurers settlement. Mr M was unhappy with the length of time that it took Mapfre to 
authorise his claim and with its level of service. He then was unhappy that it only paid him 
£200 in settlement of his claim. Mapfre said this was in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mapfre 
had settled the claim correctly and fairly and reasonably in keeping with the policys terms 
and conditions. He thought it had handled the claim reasonably after it received all the 
required documents, including the motor insurers settlement letter. And so he didnt think 
Mapfre needed to do anything further. 
Mr M replied that he thought the policy terms and conditions that Mapfre relied on were 
buried in the policys small print. He thought he had been misled about what the policy 
provided. Mr M asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels disappointed and frustrated that he didnt receive the 
payment he expected. He said this was £2,936 which was the difference between what he 
paid for the car and the settlement paid by his motor insurer, a return to invoice payment. 
But Mapfre paid him just £200, which was the policy excess his insurer had deducted from 
its settlement. Mr M has told us that this caused him financial difficulties as he bought a new 
car on the expectation of a higher settlement. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. So Ive looked firstly at the 
policys terms and conditions. 
In the policys introduction, on page three of the policy booklet, it states that the policy:
has been designed to cover the gap between the Motor Insurance Settlement and either 
the amount You paid for the Insured Vehicle, or the Finance Early Settlement Balance 
payable by you to the Finance Company if the Insured Vehicle is declared a Total Loss 
within the Period of Cover. Please refer to What is Covered Under This Insurance on page 6 
of this policy.
The Certificate of Insurance, as Mr M has pointed out, states that the period of cover is 48 
months. But the policy terms and conditions state clearly, on page 6, under what is covered:
If the Insured Vehicle is declared a Total Loss between 37 and 60 months from the Start 
Date, this policy will cover the difference between the Motor Insurance Settlement and the 
Finance Early Settlement Balance payable to the Finance Company at the date of Total 
Loss.
Mr Ms car was stolen between 37 and 60 months after purchase. The motor insurer made a 
settlement to Mr M and paid the early settlement amount required by the finance company. 
And it deducted the policys £200 excess from its settlement. 
Im satisfied that the policys terms and conditions only provide a return to invoice payment 
within the first 36 months of cover. After this period, when there is a successful total loss 
claim, the motor insurer settles the balance outstanding with the finance company from the 
settlement. If there is balance still outstanding, then Mapfre will pay this after a successful 
claim. 
There was no outstanding balance that Mapfre needed to pay the finance company. So, in 
that case, all Mapfre needed to pay Mr M in settlement of his claim was his policy excess, as 
also stated under what is covered on page 6 of the policy booklet:
If you incur a Motor Insurance Policy excess as part of Your Motor Insurance Settlement 
and We Authorise Your claim, We will also pay You up to the limit specified on your 
Certificate of Insurance toward the cost of Your Motor Insurance Policy excess.
So Im satisfied that Mapfre settled Mr Ms claim fairly and reasonably and in keeping with 
the policys terms and conditions. I dont require it to pay him a return to invoice gap 
settlement. 
Mr M was also unhappy with the length of time that it took for Mapfre to deal with his claim 
and with its level of service. 
I can see that Mr M had some difficulties making his claim and then there was little 
communication from Mapfre until it had received the motor insurers settlement letter. I think 
Mapfre made it clear in its correspondence with Mr M that it needed a set of documents, 
including this letter, in order to authorise the claim. I think that was fair and reasonable as it 
would need evidence of how the claim had been settled by the motor insurer to consider its 
liabilities. 
I can see that Mapfre authorised the claim and settled within nine days of it receiving all the 
required documents, including this letter from the motor insurer. So, although I can 
understand Mr Ms frustration, I cant say that Mapfre acted incorrectly in processing his 
claim. 
In regard to the level of service provided, I have no doubt that Mr M felt poorly treated. But 
without evidence of what happened in his calls I cant comment on Mapfres agents 
behaviour. 
So, in summary, I think Mapfre settled Mr Ms calim in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. I think it processed his claim fairly and reasonably and in keeping with its stated 
target. I agree with the Investigator that it could have done more to explain to Mr M that it 
was waiting for the motor insurers settlement letter. But I cant say that it caused any delays 
in the claim or needs to pay Mr M any compensation. Mr M said he was mis-sold the policy. But from what I can see the policy was sold to him by 
a motor dealer. And so Mapfre isnt responsible for the sale of the policy, explaining what it 
covers, or ensuring that it meets Mr Ms needs. If Mr M remains unhappy, I think he should 
complain to the motor dealer he bought the policy from. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman