DRN-3842988
The complaint
This complaint is about the purchase of premium bonds for Miss D not long after she was
born.
Miss Ds grandfather (Mr K) wished to purchase the bonds for Miss D. And given Miss Ds
age, her mother (Ms K) was required to complete the application as well.
Mr K and Ms K have brought this complaint on behalf of Miss D. They are unhappy with
National Savings and Investments (NS&I) handling of the application to purchase the
premium bonds.
Mr K who has mainly been leading the complaint is also unhappy with how NS&I have
handled the complaint itself.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision to both parties. The background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings below are taken from my provisional decision, and now form part of this 
final decision.
What happened
As noted above, Mr K wished to purchase premium bonds for his granddaughter, but the
applicant for purchasing such bonds needed to be either the guardian or parent, and so
Ms K needed to complete the application to be a point of contact until Miss D reached 16
years of age. Ms K already had existing accounts with NS&I which were registered at Mr Ks
address (Property A).
The first four attempts to purchase the bonds for Miss D were unsuccessful. Below are the
dates of each application and the date each one was cancelled as recorded by NS&Is
systems:
First application: submitted 24 October 2020; cancelled 16 November 2020.
Second application: submitted 2 December 2020; cancelled 24 December 2020.
Third application: submitted 26 February 2021; cancelled 19 March 2021.
Fourth application: submitted 14 April 2021; cancelled 7 May 2021.
The fifth application was made on 25 May 2021 and the bonds were successfully purchased
on 8 June 2021.
Mr K and Ms K broadly accepted that the first application was declined because it hadnt
been possible to provide a birth certificate for Miss D due to the challenges relating to the
pandemic.
NS&Is records show that for the subsequent second, third and fourth applications while they
were able to verify Miss Ds identity when the second application was made (as it had been
possible to obtain a birth certificate for Miss D), they had not been able to confirm Ms Ks
identity and proof of address.
Mr K and Ms K both say there was no communication from NS&I to say that it was Ms Ks
evidence of identity (EOI) documents which were outstanding. Rather they said they had
understood it was Miss Ds EOI documents that were needed. Mr K says he only found out it
was Ms Ks documents that were required when he spoke with a member of staff (T) around
17 March 2021, at the time of the third application.
Mr K says it was not until 22 April 2021 that NS&Is complaint handler explained the problem
with Ms Ks documents was that the driving licence she had submitted as proof of address
did not match the address on the applications being submitted. The complaint handler
proposed that a handwritten form be submitted and that Ms K complete the form using her
current address (Property B), even though she was in the process of selling this property to
move back to Property A.
A handwritten form was completed by Ms K, signed and dated on 1 June 2021, which used
Property B as her address (I have seen a copy of this). Together with the form it appears
Ms K enclosed a number of documents to support her identity and proof of address for the
application including: a copy of her passport (where it is not possible to see the photo), a
copy of her driving licence (where it is possible to see the photo, and shows Property B as
her address), a copy of her Freeholders letter dated 22 June 2020 and a mortgage
statement for 31 January 2021 for Property B.
NS&Is records confirm that on 8 June 2021 the premium bonds were successfully
purchased.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they didnt think NS&I had done anything
wrong. Mr K strongly disagreed with the investigators findings, and as the investigator was
unable to reach a resolution, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the available submissions I am aware there is much correspondence
between the parties involved, and they should note that it is not my intention to repeat all the
submissions here, or to answer each and every single point that has been raised. My role is
to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and so I have
commented on what I consider to be relevant to the outcome of this matter. But I would like
to reassure the parties I have reviewed everything that has been sent to this service to
consider.
Before I set out my provisional findings, I think its important to comment on what does and
does not fall within the scope of my authority here. Mr K and Ms K may not be aware, but I
do not have a free hand to consider all complaints that are brought to this service, so in each
case I must first decide whether our service has the power to look into a complaint.
Our powers come from the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, and we follow the rules
and guidance set out in the regulators handbook  known as the DISP rules. The DISP rules
set out when we can and cannot become involved in a complaint. And this includes ensuring
that a business has had an opportunity to respond to a complaint before we are able to
become involved.
I mention this as NS&Is final response letter to Ms K was dated 9 April 2021  which is partway through the chain of these events  and so Im satisfied I can consider everything until
this point. Ive noted from the submissions that Mr K continued to raise concerns after this
which I can see NS&I did engage with, although Im unaware of any further formal response
being issued to Ms K. However, given the permitted time has passed for NS&I to have
formally responded about events post 9 April 2021, Im satisfied I can consider what has
happened with all five applications.
The rules also set out the types of complaint we can look into, or activities we can consider.
Mr K has made several points about NS&Is handling of the complaints he has raised.
However, complaint handling is not an activity that is covered under our rules and
jurisdiction, so I do not have the authority to comment on any concerns Mr K has raised in
relation to NS&Is handling of the complaints.
Lastly, in relation to the scope I have here, I think it would be helpful to explain for Mr K and
Ms K that I do not have the authority to interfere with a businesss processes, systems or
controls. That is for the regulator to keep under review. It therefore follows that it is not for
this service to investigate a businesss wider practices, or fine or punish a business. That is
the regulators role.
The role of this service is to consider individual complaints, so Miss Ds complaint has come
to me to decide whether NS&I have handled the application for Miss Ds premium bonds
fairly and reasonably.
Having reviewed everything I think NS&I could have been clearer in their communications
with Mr K and Ms K. I say this because NS&I issued letters incorrectly stating that the reason
applications two, three and four had failed was due to not receiving identification for Miss D,
while their records clearly show Miss Ds identification had been verified at the time of the
second application. So I can understand how this would have been confusing to Mr K and
Ms K. Im also aware that when Mr K spoke with T he was given an incorrect deadline date
by which to submit documentation, which I think was unhelpful and Ill refer to this later.
Mr K and Ms K also mention that they did not receive any letters requesting documentation
for Ms K. And Mr K has mentioned other correspondence that he says he has not had sight
of such as NS&Is reference to a letter dated 7 January 2021.
NS&I say they sent several letters (which included a guide to acceptable forms of identity
documents) to Ms K at Property A requesting EOI documents. Copies of the letters have
been provided and they are dated 26 October 2020, 3 December 2020, 26 February 2021 15
April 2021 and 25 May 2021. Copies of letters requesting Miss Ds identification document
have also been provided in the submissions, and are dated 26 October 2020 and 3
December 2020.
In the submissions, Mr K and Ms K mention a letter dated 11 November 2020 which they
have said confirmed Ms Ks identity documentation had been accepted. However, NS&I
have no record of such a letter. And, to date, Mr K and Ms K have not provided a copy of
this.
In view of the above I think there is enough for me to say there were some communications
from NS&I which were unhelpful  notably in terms of explaining why the various
applications had failed, and so perhaps leaving Mr K and Ms K with the wrong impression of
what information was outstanding. So I think NS&I could have done a better job here.
And I think its fair to say that Mr K and Ms K disagree with NS&I that certain
correspondence or communications were sent to them.I understand Mr K in particular is very invested in what correspondence and what
communications were sent or not sent. However, while I accept perhaps there may be some
gaps in the exchange of correspondence, I also think Mr K and Ms K did have information
available to them during the course of these events about what NS&Is EOI requirements
were.
When applying online, NS&Is website sets out for customers what documentation is
acceptable for EOI. The information explains NS&I has a legal obligation to check
someones identity and where they live, and that at times they may need to check this
information to ensure their records are up to date. And where its not possible to verify the
information electronically, then relevant documentation will be requested. In relation to proof
of address it explains that the name and address on the document must match the name
and address on the NS&I application. It seems this has been the main problem with the
applications  that Ms Ks address on the application did not match her proof of address
documents.
The guide I mentioned earlier contains similar information. And Ive noted this was
referenced as an enclosure in the complaint correspondence that was sent to Ms K on 9
April 2021, and a letter sent to Mr K on the same day  before the fourth application was
submitted.
Mr K says he didnt learn that Ms Ks address on the application needed to match the
documentation being used for proof of address until the complaint handlers letter dated 22
April 2021, and the suggestion was made at that time to submit a handwritten form
amending Ms Ks address to Property B. However, I think its fair to say the above would
suggest its likely Mr K and Ms K had access to information about what NS&I required before
then.
As part of his submissions Mr K discussed the events around the third application. Mr K says
it was after his call with T that he learned Ms Ks documentation was still outstanding and he
sent that in straight away on 17 March 2021. The deadline he was given to provide the
information wasnt correct, and so it doesnt appear the posted information reached NS&I
before the actual deadline of 19 March 2021. However, I dont think this wouldve made a
difference given it seems likely the address being used on the application at that time still did
not match the documentation to prove Ms Ks address. I say this as Mr K says he wasnt
aware this was the problem until 22 April 2021, and his letter of 17 March 2021 explained
why the identification and application address didnt match.
Mr K also said NS&I had both accepted and not accepted documentation that had been
submitted. He said NS&I had said it was too faint to accept, but then later agreed to use it.
There are copies of documentation that I have understood to have been sent with the last
submissions from Ms K around 1June 2021 with her handwritten application. As noted
earlier, the passport photo and details are not clear, and I dont think its unreasonable for an
organisation to decide that such a document did not meet the requirements for identification.
I cant say what changed for NS&I  its possible they later used Ms Ks driving licence as
identification rather than proof of address. Mr K has said exactly the same documentation
was submitted again and at this point I have no reason to doubt him, but ultimately it is for
NS&I to determine the level of risk acceptable to them and what documentation they are
happy to accept to satisfy their obligations.
Mr K believes NS&I should not have needed to check Ms Ks identity given she was an
existing customer at the time of the applications (something Ms K highlighted to NS&I at the
outset), and in view of this and the amount of premium bonds being bought (£500) for hisgranddaughter, Mr K does not believe the application was such a high risk so as to warrant
the need for this level of scrutiny about Ms Ks identification.
Ive noted Mr Ks frustrations, but it is not for Mr K to decide what level of risk NS&I are
prepared to take any more than it is for me to make that decision. NS&I have regulatory and
legal responsibilities to check the identity of their customers. As noted earlier, they explain in
their literature and online information that they may need to later check someones identity
for their records. Ms K was an existing customer recorded as living at a different address to
the one her documentation was now showing  so I dont think it was unreasonable for NS&I
to want to check her identity for their records, and I think the checks were proportionate in
the circumstances.
Taking everything I consider relevant into account, Ive seen enough to reach my provisional
conclusions that there have been times when NS&I could have been clearer in their
communications to Mr K and Ms K. But Ive also noted there was information available to
Mr K and Ms K about NS&Is requirements for acceptable identification documents. And I
think it was reasonable for NS&I to request the documentation they needed to satisfy their
legal and regulatory obligations.
As mentioned earlier, where something has gone wrong, I need to consider what the impact
has been. In this case, I think NS&I  at times  were not as clear as they could have been
with Mr K and Ms K. However, the errors Ive noted  such as letters wrongly stating the
reason for applications being cancelled; NS&Is staff member T giving Mr K the wrong
deadline date; potentially a letter wrongly telling Ms K her identification documents had been
accepted, and potentially missing correspondence  must also be considered against the
information that was available to Mr K and Ms K about NS&Is acceptable documents for
identification and whether it was fair for NS&I to request identification documents for Ms K.
Even if I were to conclude that the purchase for Miss Ds premium bonds could have been
completed sooner, it is difficult for me to say that she has lost out financially. Premium Bonds
do not incur interest as they are entries into a prize draw and the advertised odds of winning
on NS&Is website describes the odds of winning as 24,000 to 1 (for every £1 Bond). I
therefore dont think its fair to say that Miss D would have definitely won something.
And while I can see the matter has taken up much time for Mr K and Ms K, under our rules
neither of them is the eligible complainant in this matter  that is Miss D. So, while I
understand Mr K and Ms K will no doubt find this disappointing, I am not able to direct any
payment to either Mr K or Ms K for any distress or inconvenience as this is a complaint being
made on Miss Ds behalf, and I can only make an award to the individual whos complaint
this is. As our investigator explained, given Miss Ds age she was of course not involved in
the complaint and has not suffered any direct distress or inconvenience herself, so Im
unable to make any such award to her.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr K replied to my provisional decision to say he was not satisfied with it, but provided no 
new submissions for me to consider. NS&I also provided no further submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party submitted any new evidence or submissions for me to consider, I see no 
reason to alter my findings from those set out in my provisional decision, as set out above. While I think NS&I could have, at times, communicated better with Mr K and Ms K, there is 
nothing here to put right because of this.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my Final Decision upholds that at times National Savings and 
Investments could have done a better job of communicating with Mr K and Ms K, but there is 
nothing National Savings and Investments need to do to put things right here. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision on Miss Ds behalf before 3 January 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman