DRN-2882373
The complaint
Mr G complains about the settlement U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered him under his 
motor insurance policy for the loss of his car. 
What happened
Mr Gs car was stolen and UKI offered him £21,324, less the policy excess, as the cars pre-
loss market value. But Mr G was unhappy with this as hed seen similar cars advertised for 
£30,000. UKI increased its offer to £21,795. But Mr G remained unhappy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKIs 
offer was more than that provided by the average of the market guides we use. So she 
thought it was fair and reasonable. 
Mr G replied that he thought the guides we use to obtain valuations were out of touch with 
the market. He provided adverts for similar cars to his advertised at higher prices. Mr G 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr G wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. Hes explained that 
his car is rare and is no longer made. Ive seen policies for rare or classic cars which provide 
an agreed value in the case of loss. But this isnt the case with Mr Gs policy. 
I can see that Mr Gs policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its loss. This is 
defined in the policy booklet:
Market value  the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and 
of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr G has said that the guides we use are out of step with the market and hes provided 
adverts for similar cars to his own advertised at much higher prices to show this. So he 
thinks we shouldnt use the market guides in his case. 
But I dont agree. We dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are 
essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides 
are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
In Mr Gs case, the guides do provide valuations for his car. And I can see that his car had a 
significantly higher mileage than the examples he provided advertised at higher prices. So 
Id expect a valuation for his car to be lower than these examples. And I can see no reason 
why we shouldnt rely on the guides. 
Our investigator thought UKIs valuation was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how she 
came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked the motor trade guides we use for cars 
of the same make, model, mileage, age and condition as Mr Gs car. The average of the 
valuations she found was lower than the settlement offered by UKI. So she thought UKIs 
offer was fair and reasonable.
I can see that UKI took Mr Gs concerns about the market guides seriously and it asked one 
of the guides to provide a specific valuation for Mr Gs car. This increased the valuation 
slightly. I think that was a fair and reasonable response to Mr Gs concerns. 
So I think UKIs valuation of Mr Gs car was fair and reasonable. I think it was based on our 
approach and then offered a tailored valuation of the market value of Mr Gs car to take into 
account its rarity. So I dont require UKI to increase its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman