DRN-3041951
The complaint
Mrs B, Ms D, Miss D and Mr S complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc refused to change the
parties named on the mortgage this complaint is about. 
What happened
Mrs B, Ms D and Miss D had a mortgage with Clydesdale Bank. Mrs B wanted to be
removed from the mortgage and Ms D and Miss D wanted to add Mr S to the mortgage in
her place.
Clydesdale Bank assessed the application, but declined it. It said that as Ms D was not living
at the property the application could only be considered on her income, and this was
unaffordable.
Clydesdale Bank subsequently agreed to remove Mrs B and add Mr S. But in order to do so
Ms D had to be released from the mortgage.
Miss D and Mr S decided to proceed with another lender and the mortgage with Clydesdale
Bank was redeemed.
Ms D felt that Clydesdale Bank had acted unfairly. She said she had paid into the property
from the outset and that it was meant to form part of her retirement provision.
Clydesdale Bank didnt agree it had made an error in assessing the application. It said that
as Ms D wasnt resident in the property this had impacted how it had assessed the
application and the maximum loan available. But it felt it could have made more of an effort
to contact Ms D to inform her of its decision. And it agreed that it hadnt always provided the
updates expected. So it offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill to say sorry for the poor
service and lack of communication experienced.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. But Mrs B, Ms D,
Miss D and Mr S didnt agree, and so the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
My provisional view
I issued my provisional view on Mrs B, Ms D, Miss D and Mr Ss complaint on 1 July 2021. I 
said, in summary: 
When Ms D and Miss D applied to remove Mrs B from the mortgage and add Mr S, 
Ms D was no longer resident at the property. Clydesdale Bank therefore assessed 
the application under its non-resident borrowers policy. This means that it assessed 
affordability on the non-resident applicants income only. Clydesdale Bank said that it 
did this because something could happen to the applicants living in the property 
which would leave the non-resident applicant with sole responsibility to pay the 
mortgage, together with their other financial commitments.
But, from the information Id seen, Mrs B, Ms D and Miss D took out the mortgage 
before April 2014 and hadnt borrowed anything more since then. This meant that, 
under the transitional provisions that apply to mortgages pre-dating the changes 
made in 2014 to the relevant mortgage rules, Clydesdale didnt need to carry out an 
affordability assessment if the proposed transaction would be in the customers best 
interests.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I was provisionally 
persuaded that it would have been in the customers best interests for Clydesdale to 
have allowed Ms D to remain on the mortgage and retain her interest in the property 
while leaving Mrs B free to take out the new mortgage she wanted. And as 
Clydesdale subsequently approved Ms D and Mr S for a loan I was provisionally 
persuaded that Ms D, Miss D and Mr S together would have been able to pay the 
mortgage going forward.
As Clydesdale Bank didnt agree the change to the mortgage it was redeemed and 
Miss D and Mr S re-mortgaged elsewhere. I was not aware from the evidence 
supplied to me that there has been any financial loss as a result. But I was 
persuaded that Mrs B, Ms D, Miss D and Mr S had been caused trouble and upset as 
a result of the way Clydesdale had handled their application. They had explained that 
the issue caused trouble and arguments between them, and that it had affected Ms 
Ds health. My provisional view was that Clydesdale should pay Mrs B, Ms D, Miss D 
and Mr S £300 compensation in respect of this issue in addition to the £100 already 
offered in respect of its poor service and lack of communication. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale has responded to my provisional decision. It says, in summary, that the 
transitional provisions do not apply in this case as Mr S was not an existing party to the 
mortgage. Ms D has also responded, and has confirmed she doesnt have any further 
information for me to consider.
Ive carefully considered what Clydesdale has to say. And I agree that Mr S was not an 
existing customer and therefore the transitional provisions didnt apply to him. But Mrs B, Ms 
D and Miss D were existing customers, and I remain of the view that the transitional 
provisions applied to them. So I also remain of the view that it was open to Clydesdale to 
allow the proposed transaction if it was in Mrs B, Ms D and Miss Ds best interests. As part 
of this, it would have been reasonable for it to check whether the arrangement with the 
different borrowers would be affordable. But Im not persuaded in the circumstances of this 
complaint and taking account of the transitional provisions that it was fair and reasonable for 
Clydesdale to base its assessment of best interests only on Ms Ds income. I remain of the 
view that it was in Ms Ds best interests to remain on the mortgage and retain her interest in 
the property while leaving Mrs B free to take out a new mortgage. And I havent seen 
anything to change my provisional view that Ms D and Miss D would have been able to 
afford the mortgage with Mr S.   
Putting things right
Clydesdale should pay Mrs B, Ms D, Miss D and Mr S a total of £400 (including the £100 
compensation already offered). 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay the 
compensation set out above.  For the avoidance of doubt, Clydesdale may discharge its 
obligation by making the payment to any one of them. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B, Ms D, Miss 
D and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman