DRN-4217526
The complaint
Mr R complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs (RBSs) approach to a chargeback 
he raised with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the evidence I have suggests Mr R hasnt been treated fairly here, and Im asking 
RBS to take some action to put things right for him. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by RBS, its administered by Mastercard, and 
they set the rules. RBS didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice 
for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success. I think RBS were 
fair to raise the chargeback here and to take it to arbitration in an attempt to resolve things 
for Mr R. 
Mr R says he was advised his chargeback claim had been successful and that RBS 
refunded the transaction fee to his credit card account and allowed him to move it to his 
current account  where he spent it, unaware there may ever be a need for him to pay it 
back.
He's provided evidence that he called RBS on 6 May 2022 and whilst RBS initially disputed 
whether a call had been made, they now accept one was received but have suggested it 
was to an automated system and that Mr R was unlikely to have spoken to anybody and 
have been given advice his chargeback had been successful. 
On balance, I think it is likely Mr R was either led to believe the chargeback had been settled 
in his favour, or at the very least that the potential for the chargeback to be re-debited wasnt 
explained to him. I say that because I dont think its likely RBS would have moved a sum, of 
several thousand pounds, that was still in dispute, to his current account without explaining 
the credit may be reversed. And Ive seen no evidence that was communicated to Mr R. Ive 
also not been provided with copies of any communication from RBS to Mr R explaining the 
chargeback process, and the potential for the credit to be reversed. I can also see Mr Rs 
actions after the chargeback was moved into his current account were consistent with him 
thinking the money wouldnt be reversed  as he quickly spent it.
Putting things right
It wouldnt be fair to ask RBS to allow Mr R to keep the refunded transaction. The 
chargeback wasnt successful, and Mr R has had the benefit of that money.
But it is fair to consider the impact of, and to compensate Mr R for, what I think were RBSs 
failings in handling the chargeback properly. 
I think Mr R has spent money he wouldnt otherwise have spent and that when the £3,200 is 
claimed back by RBS he will likely experience some unanticipated financial difficulty paying 
it. Thats not to say that Ive seen sufficient evidence to suggest Mr R is struggling financially, 
its simply to explain that he will need to manage his finances to cater for an unexpected, 
and quite significant bill. Its also been necessary for Mr R to escalate a complaint to this 
Service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. When a payment is made with a 
credit card, as is the case here, it might also be possible for a consumer to make a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974). That says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower has the same right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. RBS havent 
considered a section 75 claim and I think they should have. Considering all of the 
circumstances, I think RBS should pay Mr R £500 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Our investigator suggested that RBS shouldnt charge interest on the £3,200 when it was 
recharged to Mr Rs account. I asked RBS how they would do that as the account had now 
been closed. They explained that it may still be possible to charge it to the credit card as the 
account remained active for a time, and that alternatively they could charge it to another 
account that Mr R holds with them. I would therefore agree with our investigator that RBS 
shouldnt charge interest on the £3,200 when it is recharged to Mr Rs account/s.
I also asked RBS why they hadnt considered a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974). They explained that on the evidence they had they thought it unlikely such 
a claim would succeed, but that theyd be happy to consider such a claim if Mr R reached 
out to them. That is something Mr R may wish to consider if he feels he can provide 
adequate evidence there has been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to:
Pay Mr R £500 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
Not charge interest on the £3,200 when it is recharged to Mr Rs account.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman