DRN-3674013
The complaint
Mr J complains about how One Insurance Limited has handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to write off his car so he can buy it back and repair it himself. 
What happened
Mr Js car was damaged whilst parked and One Insurance took it for repair. Its approved 
repairer said it needed two doors replaced and One Insurance authorised this. But after six 
months waiting for replacement doors, the repairer found that they were no longer available. 
One Insurance said it would then repair the doors. 
But Mr J was unhappy with this as he thought the repairs would be evident. He wanted One 
Insurance to declare his car a total loss so that he could buy back the salvage and repair it 
himself. But One Insurance said it needed to mitigate the claim costs and the repairs would 
achieve this and restore his car. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that if the 
doors were repairable and this would indemnify Mr J, then this should have been done in the 
first instance. He thought it was unfair for One Insurance to change its stance after keeping 
Mr J waiting so long. He saw that the repair costs, including replacing the doors, brought the 
car within the threshold for it being deemed a total loss. So he thought One Insurance should 
write off the car, and pay Mr J its pre-accident value, less the policy excess and the salvage 
value if he chose to buy it back. 
One Insurance replied that only one door was unavailable. It said repair rather than replacing 
the door was the only available option. It said that if the claim was dealt with as a total loss, it 
would also deduct the cost of the non-returnable parts from any settlement. One Insurance 
didnt provide the costs for these deductions. And as it didnt make any further response to 
the Investigators view, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr J feels frustrated by the delay in the repairs to his car. I can see 
that up to the point he brought his complaint to us he had been given incorrect estimated 
completion dates on several occasions. This was unfortunate. But I think One Insurance had 
reasonably chased the garage for updates and the garage was seeking to obtain the doors 
from alternative suppliers, without success. Mr J is now unhappy that as the doors arent 
available, then One Insurance wants to repair rather than replace them. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. I can see stated in Mr Js policy 
document:
Section 1 Accidental Damage
What Is Covered? 
If your car is damaged by accident, vandalism or malicious damage, we may:
 Pay the cost of repairs to your car.
 Replace what is lost or damaged.
 Make a settlement payment based on the cost of replacing your car at the time of the loss 
or damage, taking into account its make, model, age, mileage and circumstances of its 
purchase by you. This shall not exceed the estimate of value that you last gave to us.
When Mr J reported his claim, One Insurance arranged for its approved repairer to assess 
the car. The engineer estimated the repair cost, including replacing the two damaged doors, 
at £3,478.66. He also commented that this cost may increase slightly if further damage was 
found. The engineer said the cars pre-accident market value was £5,750.00. 
So the repair costs would be at least 60.5% of the cars value. The engineer asked One 
Insurance to authorise the repairs or deem the car to be a total loss. And One Insurance 
authorised repairs, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
As the Investigator has explained, its industry practice that an insurer will consider writing off 
a vehicle if the repairs cost around 60-70% of the market value. This is usually because the 
cost to the insurer of paying for repairs is more than it would lose on paying to write-off the 
vehicle, when also taking account of any amount it made on its salvage. We dont think this 
is unreasonable. 
Having said that, sometimes insurers may choose not to write-off a car even if the repair 
costs were above 60-70% of its pre-accident market value. The decision to write-off a car 
has to be reasonable based on the cost of the repairs versus the market value. So, wed 
need to consider the insurers reasons for wanting to repair.
I think the original repair costs brought Mr Js car into the bracket where writing off the car 
would be considered. But I cant see from its file why One Insurance decided to repair the 
car rather than write it off as proposed by the engineer. 
Six months later, when it was confirmed that the doors couldnt be replaced, One Insurance 
decided to authorise repairs rather than replace the doors. The costs were now significantly 
lower than the total loss threshold, £2,362.56, or 41% or the cars value. 
One Insurance said that only one door now needed repairs. But I can see that the engineers 
revised estimate includes the costs of repairing two doors. One Insurance said the repairs 
would indemnify Mr J. It relied on its qualified engineers view that repairs would restore the 
car to its pre-accident condition. Given the amount of damage to be repaired, I can 
understand Mr Js concern that this may not be effective. 
One Insurance hasnt explained why there has been a change in the engineers view that 
replacing the doors rather than repairing them was necessary in order to restore the cars 
condition. One Insurance said that the original decision to replace rather than repair may 
have been made to keep down other costs, such as hire. 
But Im not satisfied that One Insurance has justified its decision about the repairs. I think it 
has now been left with one option and is seeking to justify it rather than declaring the car a 
total loss. So I think its unreasonable for it to now decide to try to repair the car because 
parts arent available.
I can understand that One Insurance wants to minimise claim costs. But I think this is unfair 
as it could have decided this at the outset. Mr J has been waiting so long for his car to be 
repaired and Im not satisfied that One Insurance has justified its decision to repair the 
doors. To resolve Mr Js complaint, I think it would be fair and reasonable for One Insurance to take 
the further option provided by the policy of declaring the car a total loss based on the original 
estimate. And it should make Mr J a payment of the cars pre-accident value, as already 
assessed, less the policy excess. This would allow Mr J to buy back the cars salvage, if he 
so wished, and make his own repairs. One Insurance wanted to deduct from the settlement 
the costs of the parts already bought. But I dont think this would be fair or reasonable as I 
dont think Mr J is responsible for this. 
Putting things right
I require One Insurance Limited to write off Mr Js car, pay him its pre-accident market value 
and provide him with the option to buy back the salvage if he so wishes  subject to any 
applicable policy excess and salvage deduction.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman