DRN-1478013
 
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by PSA Finance UK Limited 
(PSA) at the end of a car lease. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is 
able to look into complaints about it;  
the terms of his agreement held Mr A responsible for returning the car in a good 
condition;
the industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
leasing Association (BVRLA);
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided, in the inspection 
report completed at handover, against that BVRLA guidance. Im persuaded that all 
of the damage is beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear except for the 
chip to the windscreen. I dont think the photograph evidences the chip being in the 
eye line of the driver or being too large;
Im not persuaded that its most likely that the damage was there before Mr A took 
receipt of the car. Im persuaded here by the preparation report that has been 
provided by PSA. I think that shows that care was taken to ensure the car was 
presented in a good condition prior to sale and I think the damage identified at the 
end of the lease would have been identified at this stage if it was present.
 
Putting things right
 PSA should therefore waive the charge they've made for the chipped windscreen. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons I've given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell PSA Finance UK 
Limited to waive the charge they've made for the chipped windscreen. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman