DRN-3604544
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with how The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) dealt with an international 
transfer of funds.
What happened
On 7 July 2021, Mrs M phoned to arrange a transfer of  £1,000 from her Co-op account, to 
an account in Italy. Co-op asked Mrs M if she wanted to transfer the money in sterling, which 
she did, and they told her this would need to be done through SWIFT, at the cost of £13. Mrs 
M opted to split the charges, so she paid £1,006.50, and the beneficiary received £993.50.
A few days later, when she phoned Co-op about another transaction, Mrs M queried the 
charges with Co-op. They agreed to return the £6.50 charge to her, and they transferred 
£6.50 to the beneficiary to make up the shortfall. They also paid Mrs M £10 compensation. 
However, Co-op debited £6.50 from Mrs Ms account in error, which they later refunded.
The transfer was rejected by the beneficiary bank because conversion not allowed and Mrs 
M was charged £20, which Co-op refunded. Mrs M contacted Co-op about this and, after a 
series of calls and emails, the situation was resolved, and the transfer made in September 
2021.
£6.50 transfer fees were deducted from the £1,000 Mrs M transferred on 24 August 2021, 
which Co-op refunded. Which had the effect of Mrs M transferring £1,000 at a cost to her of 
£993.50. In addition to the £10 theyd paid on 9 July 2021, Co-op also paid Mrs M £120 
compensation on 26 July 2021, and a further £25 compensation on 8 September 2021.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Co-op never explained Mrs Ms options, and that if she transferred 
the money in euros, this would be done through SEPA at no cost to either party. And he 
thought that, had this been explained, then Mrs M would most likely have chosen to send the 
transfer in euros. Which most likely wouldve meant that the issues Mrs M had with the 
rejection wouldnt have occurred.
But the investigator also said that Co-op had refunded all the charges, and paid Mrs M £155 
compensation plus £6.50 of the amount transferred  a total of £161.50. So, he thought 
theyd fairly compensated Mrs M for the trouble and upset shed been caused. And he didnt 
think they needed to do anything more.
Mrs M didnt agree. She didnt think that her time and energy [shed spent] as a result of the 
errors made by [Co-op] had been appropriately compensated. She said it took her at least 
a working day trying to sort this out, so she thought that a days salary of the person 
responsible for the error was an appropriate benchmark and it is insulting to be told my 
time and attention is devalued to such an extent.
Mrs M also said that shed suffered considerable long-term distress because this mess lives 
long in my memory. And shes asked that an ombudsman review her complaint and make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Its not disputed that there have been errors. And if Mrs M was given the option to make the 
transfer in euros, then she most probably would have. As such, my decision will focus on 
what I consider to be a reasonable remedy. 
When looking at a complaint like this, where possible Im looking to put the customer back in 
the position they wouldve been if the error hadnt occurred. Has Ms M been offered the 
option to send the transfer in euros, fee free, then, as previously stated, Im satisfied she 
wouldve done. So, Id expect Co-op to refund any charges she incurred. And they have.
But Mrs M has clearly suffered some distress and inconvenience because of what 
happened. And Ive seen that she repeatedly contacted Co-op by phone, email, and through 
social media, before the matter was resolved.
Mrs M has said that the compensation should be based on a appropriate benchmark and 
she considers the salary for a bank clerk at Co-op to be this benchmark. And, given that 
shes spent around a working day dealing with Co-op on this matter, she thinks that the 
equivalent to a days salary for a Co-op bank clerk would be reasonable compensation.
While I appreciate Mrs Ms depth of feeling on this matter, we dont look at compensation 
that way. The same level of service can impact on two customers in completely different 
ways, so its not fair to base the compensation on a fixed benchmark. Instead we look at 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, considering how the individual, in this case 
Mrs M, has been impacted.
I appreciate that Mrs M spent time trying to sort this out, and shes said this took her about a 
day, which was spread over a period of around two months. So, while frustrating for Mrs M, 
Im satisfied that the impact was limited. I know Mrs M has said that she continues to think 
about this, but I also have to consider that this is natural while her complaint is ongoing. 
Co-op have already paid her compensation totalling £161.50. And, while Ive said this isnt 
the way we look at compensation, for the purposes of how Mrs M views compensation, this 
is the equivalent to one days salary for someone earning around £42,000 a year. 
Taking into consideration the impact on Mrs M, and what we would normally award in similar 
circumstances; had no compensation been offered I would be asking Co-op to pay Mrs M in 
the region of £150. So, and while I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to her, 
given what Co-op have already paid Mrs M, I wont be asking them to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about The Co-operative 
Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman