DRN-2967379
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with the actions of Barclays Bank UK PLC including that she was without 
a debit card for several weeks and that her account was ultimately closed by Barclays.   
What happened
Miss A lost her debit card and requested a new one from Barclays. A few days later, Miss A 
noticed a transaction on her account that she didnt realise and contacted Barclays about 
this. In response, Barclays cancelled the replacement debit card it had recently sent and 
issued a second replacement debit card to Miss A.
A few weeks later, Barclays made the decision to close Miss As account. Barclays sent a 
letter to Miss A advising that her account would be closed in two months, but that Miss A 
would be able to bank normally for those two months. However, Barclays also cancelled the 
second replacement debit card it had sent to Miss A. Miss A didnt initially realise that her 
debit card had been cancelled, and when she did, she wasnt happy about this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Miss As complaint. They noted that they were within their rights to close 
an account and felt that they had provided reasonable notice to Miss A of their intent to do 
so. But Barclays acknowledged that a new debit card should have been sent to Miss A 
following the cancellation of her most recent card. So, they upheld Miss As complaint on 
that basis and made a payment to Miss A of £175. 
Miss A tried to contact Barclays about their complaint response on several occasions without 
success. Barclays apologised to Miss A about not responding to her communication 
attempts and paid a further £100 to Miss A as compensation for this.
Miss A wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that they could fairly 
censure Barclays for closing Miss As account, and they felt that the compensation that 
Barclays had already paid to Miss A did, for the most part, represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to Miss As complaint. 
However, they noted that there was an aspect of Miss As complaint that Barclays hadnt 
addressed  regarding the unnecessary cancelling of the first replacement debit card that 
Barclays had sent  and so they recommended that Miss As complaint be upheld on that 
basis only and that Barclayss should make a further payment to Miss A of £25.
Barclays accepted the recommendation put forward by our investigator, but Miss A remained 
dissatisfied. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating and upsetting for Miss A to have been 
without a debit card for the period of time that she was, especially as she was shielding due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic and so relied on the debit card to purchase groceries and other 
essential items online.
Miss A is unhappy that she had no working debit card for several weeks, and also that 
Barclays closed her account. Considering the latter point first, its up to a business to decide 
whom it will offer its services to, or whether it will continue to offer its service to an existing 
customer. 
In short, this means that a business is entitled to decide to close a customers account if that 
business has made the commercial decision that it no longer wants to offer its services to 
that customer. In such circumstances, what this service would expect would be that the 
business would provide reasonable notice to that customer that they intend to close their 
account, so that the customer can then make alternative arrangements, if they wish to do so.
Having reviewed all the information available to me, Im satisfied that Barclays did that here. 
They sent a letter to Miss A advising that they had made the commercial decision to close 
her account and that this closure would be implemented in two months, thus giving Miss A 
time to make suitable alternative arrangements.
As mentioned, while I can appreciate that Miss A might not be happy with Barclays decision, 
Im satisfied that this was a decision that Barclays were entitled to make, and that Barclays 
provided fair notice to Miss A of their decision such that Miss A had time to make suitable 
alternative arrangements. Because of this, I wont be upholding this aspect of Miss As 
complaint.
Miss A is also unhappy that she was without a debit card for several weeks. Barclays have 
acknowledged that their actions did mean that Miss A was without a debit card for longer 
than she ought reasonably to have been, and theyve paid compensation to Miss A relating 
to this. 
Furthermore, Barclays have also accepted the view put forward by our investigator relating 
to the fact that when Miss A contacted Barclays about an unrecognised transaction on her 
account  which had been transacted on a debit card which had already been cancelled  
that Barclays response included that they cancelled the replacement debit card sent to Miss 
A, when it wasnt necessary for them to have done so. And Barclays have agreed with the 
recommendation put forward by our investigator that they should make a further 
compensation payment of £25 to Miss A because of this.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as fair and reasonable 
by one party not being considered as such by someone else. But, while Im aware that Miss 
A might disagree here, the £175 compensation payment that Barclays have already paid to 
Miss A in relation to her not having access to a debit card, as well as the £100 compensation 
paid for their not communicating efficiently with Miss A - and the further payment of £25 to 
which Barclays have agreed as described above - do feel fair to me, and I can confirm that 
they are commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances here.
I understand that Miss A feels that further compensation is warranted in this instance, and 
Ive taken on board her comments that the timing of these events  taking place during the 
Covid-19 pandemic  meant that she was particularly disadvantaged, given that she was 
shielding and so trying to avoid going outdoors to, for instance, activate a new debit card. 
Ive also taken board Miss As comments about the final replacement card being declined 
when she did go to a store to make transaction to try to activate that card. However, it 
remains my opinion that the compensation described above, including the £275 total compensation already received by Miss A and the further £25 to which Barclays have 
agreed, does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this aspect of Miss As complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss A wants here, but it follows from all of the 
above that Ill be upholding this complaint on the same basis as recommended by our 
investigator, and that Ill only be instructing Barclays to make the further payment of £25 to 
which theyve already agreed. 
I hope that Miss A can understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
Putting things right
Barclays must make a payment of £25 to Miss A.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman