DRN-3959510
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard told him that in order for 
him to manage his credit card through its one-line app he would need to visit a branch and 
verify his identity.
What happened
Mr S successfully applied for a credit card with Barclays. Mr S, who was an existing Barclays 
customer, tried to access his credit card account through the mobile banking app but was 
unable to do so. After several unsuccessful attempts to merge the profile on Mr S existing 
account to the one on his credit card, Barclays asked Mr S go to one of its branches with 
identification so that it could merge the two profiles. Mr S declined and asked Barclays to 
close his credit card account.
Mr S complained to Barclays that the credit card didnt show in the on-line banking app and 
that as an existing customer it should have. Mr S said when he was asked to go into a 
branch to resolve the matter, he asked for his credit card to be closed, but that it took several 
more weeks for this to be done. Barclays provided a final response to Mr S and said it had 
two profiles set-up for him and in order for these to be merged, it required Mr S to take 
identification into a local branch. Barclays accepted that it didnt close the credit card 
account when Mr S first requested but explained it had now been closed. Barclays 
apologised to Mr S and offered to pay him £100 for the inconvenience caused. Mr S rejected 
the offer and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that the offer Barclays had already 
made to resolve the complaint was a fair and reasonable one. After the Investigator provided 
his view to Mr S and Barclays, Mr S commented that implied it was an error by Mr S that had 
led to the two profiles with Barclays being different. The Investigator went back to Barclays 
for further information and clarified that Mr S hadnt made an error, nor was there an error by 
Barclays  it was simply that the two profiles couldnt be merged because they didnt match. 
And as Barclays had suggested a reasonable way of resolving this the Investigator still 
thought the remedy offered by Barclays was a fair and reasonable one. Mr S didnt agree 
and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S will be disappointed, but Ive decided that the offer Barclays made to 
resolve the complaint was a fair and reasonable one. I will now explain why. 
Its not disputed the information Mr S provided on his credit card application contained no 
errors. Instead, Barclays accepts there were several questions on the credit card application 
that it didnt ask Mr S to complete, for example his mothers maiden name. Although these 
questions are not mandatory when applying for an account, this meant that when Barclays 
attempted to merge the two profiles Mr S held, it was unable to do so  one contained more 
information than the other and therefore there wasnt a match. This meant the profiles 
couldnt be merged and this is more likely than not the reason Mr S couldnt access his credit 
card account in his on-line app with Barclays. 
Barclays told Mr S it couldnt merge the two profiles because some of the information didnt 
match and asked Mr S to go into a branch with identification to resolve this. Mr S declined 
and asked that the credit card be cancelled, and for Barclays to confirm this to him. 
Unfortunately, Barclays didnt close the credit card account immediately and it remained 
open until it issued a final response to Mr S complaint. 
Having identified the two profiles didnt match, I think Barclays request that Mr S to attend a 
local branch with identification was a fair and reasonable one. Mr S declined to attend the 
branch, which he was entitled to do, but Barclays should reasonably have closed the credit 
card account when he instructed it to. I appreciate Mr S would have been frustrated by 
Barclays request to attend a local branch and that he spent some time using on-line chat 
with Barclays trying access his credit card account on-line. However, I cant see that Mr S 
ever used the credit card, so I dont think this would have caused him a significant amount of 
inconvenience - and its more likely than not Mr S would have received regular statements 
for the card or been able to contact Barclays telephone banking service to manage the card.
Mr S has provided a copy of his credit report confirming the Barclays credit card had a zero 
balance and that for the time he held the card he had access to a specific credit card limit. 
Therefore, while the credit card account was open and not being used, I cant reasonably 
conclude this would have had an unexpected impact on his credit score. I also have to take 
into account that the credit card account was closed by Mr S and not Barclays, so any 
impact there may have been on Mr S credit score after the card account had been closed 
was because Mr S had chosen not to attend a Barclays branch and to close his account. 
Taking all of the above into account, Im satisfied that the offer Barclays made to Mr S to 
resolve the complaint was a fair and reasonable one. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard has already made an offer to pay £100 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is 
that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard should pay Mr S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman