DRN-2572999
The complaint
Miss S complains that she wasnt able to access her bank account through the Barclays 
Bank UK PLC app, or otherwise, for a full day.
What happened
Miss S told us that she tried to access her bank account using the Barclays mobile banking 
app on 3 December 2020. But she said she couldnt get access, and she got a text telling 
her the service was down. Miss S said that she rang Barclays instead, but she was cut off. 
She said she wasnt able to access her bank account all day.
Barclays has paid Miss S £35 to say sorry for this, and for initially failing to record her 
complaint about the problem. Miss S said that wasnt enough, and she wanted our service to 
look at what had happened.
Barclays said that there was a short loss of service for mobile banking on the morning of 3 
December, just after 8am, but this was quickly resolved. It has been clear that only the 
banking app was affected, and people could still access online banking, or use phone 
banking. 
Barclays said it couldnt see any records showing that Miss S had called on that day. And it 
could see that Miss S had been able to access the mobile banking app on 3 December, 
once the service was restored. Her statement showed shed made a transaction on that day.
Barclays said that Miss S had online banking access too, but hadnt used this. And it didnt 
think shed experienced any financial loss from not being able to log on during the brief loss 
of service. Barclays didnt think it should pay Miss S any more.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She noted that Miss S hadnt 
suffered any direct financial loss. So she thought that what Barclays had done was enough 
to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Miss S didnt agree, she thought Barclays should pay more. She wanted her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that Miss S would have been inconvenienced if she wasnt able to log in to her 
banking app during the early part of 3 December. But shes confirmed to our service that she 
didnt lose out financially because of this. And her statements do show that she was able to 
transfer some money that day. So it seems most likely that the inconvenience was for a 
relatively short period. Barclays has also confirmed that its online and phone banking 
remained available even when mobile banking through the app was experiencing problems. 
With no financial loss in this case, I need to think about whether the amount that Barclays 
has paid Miss S is enough to make up for whats gone wrong. And, like our investigator, I do 
think that a payment of £35 is enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. I dont think Barclays has to pay Miss S more than this now.
I know Miss S will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman