DRN-2906121
The complaint
Ms S complains about the way Unum Ltd handled a claim she made on her employers 
private dental insurance policy.
What happened
Ms S has private dental insurance through her employer. This policy covers a policyholder to 
undergo private dental treatment and receive reimbursement of the cost that wouldve 
applied if the treatment had been carried out by the NHS. 
In January 2020, Mr S  a joint policyholder- underwent dental treatment abroad. So Ms S 
made a claim on her policy for the costs of Mr S treatment in mid-February 2020. This was 
around £631. Around a week later, Unum let Ms S know that it needed an itemised invoice 
showing what treatment Mr S had received. Ms S provided this information in mid-March 
2020.
Unum agreed to settle the claim about a week later. It paid Ms S £269.30, which is the NHS 
charge which wouldve applied if Mr S had undergone the same course of treatment on the 
NHS.
Ms S was unhappy with the way Unum had handled the claim and that shed had to ask the 
dentist abroad for information twice. She was also unhappy that the full claim hadnt been 
settled and she didnt think Unum had clearly explained how it had reached settlement. So 
she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Unum had done anything wrong which it needed to put right. He 
felt the terms of Ms S policy made it clear that Unum would settle claims by paying what it 
would cost the NHS to carry out treatment. He noted that while Unum hadnt initially given 
Ms S a detailed breakdown of how it had calculated the settlement, it had gone on to provide 
her with a link to NHS band charges. And while he accepted Unum had incorrectly asked Ms 
S for duplicate information, he didnt consider that it needed to pay Ms S any compensation.
Ms S disagreed. She felt that Unum had provided poor customer service and said it had 
taken months of emails to explain how it had worked out the settlement. And she said that 
when she disputed the claim amount, Unum had asked her for an invoice in her own name, 
even though itd been Mr S whod undergone treatment. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms S, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. 
Ill explain why.
The relevant rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So Ive 
considered, amongst other things, the terms of Ms S policy and the circumstances of her 
claim to decide whether Unum treated her fairly.
Unums settlement of the claim
Ive looked carefully at the terms of Ms S dental policy. Its clear that both she and Mr S are 
policyholders. The policy is described as a Clear 1 - 100% NHS dental cover. For each type 
of treatment listed, the applicable limit is set as 100% NHS. The policy states:
If you receive private treatment under the Clear 1 plan, we will reimburse the NHS 
equivalent charge for the whole course of treatment received.
Dental treatment you receive which is not listed on the benefit schedule will be reimbursed at 
the amount you would pay if you received a course of treatment under the English NHS.
Im satisfied Unum has made it clear that Ms S policy will only pay private dental costs up to 
the amount it wouldve cost the NHS to carry out the same treatment. In this case, Mr S 
treatment wouldve been categorised as band three treatment by the NHS, which at that 
point, wouldve cost £269.30. This means that if Mr S had undergone the same dental 
treatment on the NHS, he wouldve paid a total price of £269.30 for the whole of it. Ive 
checked the NHS dental charges which wouldve applied at the time Ms S made the claim. I 
agree that £269.30 wouldve been the amount charged by the NHS for Mr S dental work. So 
while I appreciate the treatment cost Mr S more than double the claim pay out, Im satisfied 
that Unum calculated the settlement fairly and in line with the policy terms.  
Unums handling of the claim
Its clear that Ms S feels strongly that Unum handled the claim poorly. I can see from the 
documents that she dealt with making the claim and in dealing with Unum. Ms S initially 
submitted some evidence in support of the claim, including handwritten notes from the 
dentist and payment receipts. But these didnt clearly itemise what treatment Mr S had 
undergone or how the costs were broken down. I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum 
to ask Ms S for this information before it calculated the settlement due.
I understand obtaining this information mightve caused Ms S some inconvenience, given the 
dentist was abroad. But I can see that once she sent it on to Unum, the claim was correctly 
settled in around a week. So I dont think there were any unreasonable delays in Unum 
settling the claim.
Ms S got in touch with Unum to query how itd worked out the settlement. I agree with the 
investigator that it couldve pointed her to the relevant NHS dental charges link it eventually 
provided her with back in March 2020. Instead, it didnt give her this information until Unum 
issued its final response to the complaint in June 2020. But I dont think its failure to do so 
caused Ms S to lose out. I say that because Unum did explain early on that Ms S policy was 
an NHS-only policy and how that impacted on claims. And even if it had given Ms S this 
information earlier, it wouldnt have changed the settlement Mr S was entitled to. Ive also 
noted that Unum apologised for its failure to provide Ms S with the link earlier and I think this 
was enough to put right its mistake.
Its unfortunate that Unum asked for duplicate information after the settlement had already 
been paid. I appreciate this was likely frustrating for Ms S and I know she feels 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience is due. But in this case, given that overall I 
think Unum settled the claim fairly and in a timely way and I note it has apologised for poor 
service, I dont think it needs to take any further action. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman