DRN-3036268
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mayfair Capital Limited treated him as having an adventurous risk 
profile when advising him on his investments in his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). He says that he has suffered significant losses as a result because he had a 
cautious attitude to risk (ATR).  
What happened
Mr H met with Mayfair in 2017, having been referred to them by a financial adviser. Mr H 
completed an application form to open a trading account through Mayfair on an advisory 
basis. That meant that Mayfair would provide him with advice on investments and make 
recommendations, but Mr H would need to agree and provide authority before Mayfair made 
the recommended trades.
The form Mr H completed and signed to open the trading account and appoint Mayfair 
included financial information including, Mr Hs income, outgoings, the value of his 
property and details of his pensions. The form said he had one pension valued at around 
£32,500. There was a section on the form which covered Mr Hs previous investment 
experience, his investment objectives and his ATR. It was noted that Mr Hs investment 
experience was limited and that he personally had no relevant employment experience or 
professional qualifications in relation to pensions and investments. It showed that his 
investments had been managed before. 
Mr H said on the form his objectives were balanced between returns on income and capital 
growth. The form noted down that he had a medium ATR and wanted to balance limiting 
losses and achieving positive gains. Further, it was noted he was willing to take a little more 
additional risk, if it could potentially improve returns. He said that he was prepared to lose 
up to 5% in his fund value in a 12 month period and was looking to invest over 5-10 years.
The form set out the proposed breakdown of investment types, according to the different 
levels of investment risk. It noted that 48% was to be invested in Global Large Cap 
Equities and 15% invested in Investment Grade Corporate Bonds, both of which were 
referred to as medium risk investments. There was also 2% to be invested in cash and 
20% in Investment Grade Government Bonds, considered to be low risk. The form 
recorded that 15% was to be invested in Global Small Cap Equities, noted as high risk 
investments. 
Mr H signed the form. The declaration said that he agreed with the contents, including a 
section about saying no if he didnt wish to make a recommended trade. His trading 
account was opened based on the information set out in this application form.
Mr H complained to Mayfair saying that he was a cautious investor and had lost out 
financially due his ATR being wrongly assessed.. Mayfair didnt uphold his complaint and so 
he referred it to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and did not recommend that it was 
upheld. This was because the investigator considered that the investments made were not 
inconsistent with Mr Hs ATR, stated objectives and investment profile.
Mr Hs complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr Hs application to open the trading account. I can see that hes been asked 
questions to establish his ATR, with answers recorded on the form. Ive also seen that its 
noted on the form that he has a medium ATR. Mr H has signed the form to say he agrees to 
whats said there. The form is not overly long, so I think it likely that Mr H wouldve been 
asked to look over the form at the time, before signing to say the information had been taken 
down correctly. Based on whats noted in the form, it doesnt seem to me that Mayfair 
unreasonably or unfairly proceeded on the basis that Mr H had a medium ATR to risk and 
wanted to invest as a balanced investor. The form recorded that Mayfair recommended that 
all bar those with a cautious ATR, invest in high risk investments. A large proportion of Mr 
Hs portfolio (85%) was to be invested in low and medium risk investments.
Ive also seen details of emails Mayfair sent to Mr H after he opened his trading account 
recommending certain trades and asking Mr H to confirm that he wanted the trades made. 
Ive seen some of the responses Mr H sent to Mayfair agreeing to the trades. I have not 
heard from Mr H that Mayfair made any of these trades without his agreement. So, Ive no 
reason to believe that the trades in the higher risk funds were made without Mr Hs 
permission.
Based on the information I have seen, it seems that Mr H was assessed as having a 
medium ATR and that he signed to say that he was prepared to have 15% of his SIPP 
invested in high risk investments. I cant see from the investment recommendations 
made that Mayfair later recommended investing more of his fund in high risk 
investments. 
Mr Hs pension had lost in value at the time he made his complaint to this service. 
However, it was made clear to him from the outset that investments can go up and down. 
I note that Mr H said he was looking to invest over a 5 to10 year period, so it may still be 
feasible for Mr Hs pension to increase again over this period, subject to any other 
investment decisions he makes. 
Im not satisfied that Mayfair wrongly assessed Mr Hs ATR to risk at the outset. Nor can 
I see that Mayfair acted beyond Mr Hs instructions in relation to the level of risk his 
pension was exposed to. It seems Mayfair provided Mr H with information each time it 
recommended a trade. It asked him to agree to the trade prior to making it. In all these 
circumstances, I cant see that Mayfair did anything wrong. I cant see that Mayfair 
provided him with unsuitable advice based on his risk profile and it gave him information 
about the trade up front to enable him to make an informed choice and agree to make 
that trade, before it was made. So, taking all this into account, I am not ordering Mayfair 
to take any further action or to make good any investment loss that Mr H may have 
suffered. I make no award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman