DRN-4463407
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the behaviour of Harvey & Thompson Limited trading as H&T 
Pawnbrokers in relation to a loan he took out with it. 
What happened
Mr M wanted to borrow £2,500 from H&T. He pledged a watch as security and entered into a 
fixed sum loan agreement with it on 22 March 2022. The total amount repayable under the 
agreement was £3,858.65 and it was due to be repaid within 6 months. 
At the beginning of April 2022, H&T said Mr M came in to discuss taking out additional 
money against the watch. H&T said Mr M explained at that point hed only received £1,500. 
H&T said it paid £2,500 and it referred to the agreement that had been signed. It also said 
there was no cash difference that day. H&T said that the CCTV was broken and so as a 
gesture of goodwill, it would waive the interest on the agreement. 
Mr M didnt pay off the agreement within six months. H&T wrote to him in December 2022 to 
say the watch would be sold at auction on 19 January 2023, and the asking price would be 
£4,737.35. But Mr M would have until 18 January 2023 to stop the sale. 
H&T wrote to Mr M on 25 January 2023 to say the watch realised £4,737.35, and the net 
sale proceeds were £4,712.35 after taking off the postage costs. 
Mr M contacted the Financial Ombudsman to complain. He said he was expecting some 
money back given H&T had sold the watch for nearly £5,000. To resolve the complaint, Mr M 
requested the difference in the sale price compared to what he borrowed. He couldnt 
understand why he wasnt due something if H&T had waived the interest. Mr M explained he 
was given conflicting information from H&T about whether the watch had sold at auction. 
H&T explained that the watch was sent to auction with a reserve price of the loan amount 
plus interest. This was the figure of £4,737.35 it referred to. H&T explained that if an item 
doesnt sell at auction, H&T would repay the loan plus interest, so the item is effectively sold 
to H&T. And this is what happened in Mr Ms case. H&T did, however, offer Mr M £1,358.65 
in full and final settlement. It said this equates to the interest that would have accrued on the 
loan to the end of its six-month period. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the offer. He said he wouldnt accept less than around the £2,200 
because this is the amount H&T said the watch was sold for (over and above the loan 
amount). 
Our investigator looked into things and explained he was only going to consider the 
complaint about the sale of the watch. He could understand why Mr M questioned the sale 
price given the watch didnt sell at the auction. But he thought that H&T had broadly treated 
Mr M fairly and that H&T should honour the offer it made of £1,358.65. 
Mr M and the investigator continued to correspond about the offer. Mr M accepted the offer 
in April 2023. But as he didnt receive the payment within a few days he asked for the case 
to be decided by an ombudsman. He received the payment, and I issued a provisional 
decision that said:
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr M and H&T that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr M entered into a regulated credit agreement with H&T and our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Our investigator focussed on the issues relating to the sale of the watch and explained the 
complaint about the alleged money not received wasnt within our jurisdiction. I can see H&T 
wrote to Mr M about that issue in April 2022. But I cant see Mr M was given referral rights to 
the Financial Ombudsman. Given I think the application of interest is relevant to consider in 
this complaint, I think it would make sense to look at this issue as well, as part of this 
complaint. 
From what Ive seen, Mr M took a few days to return to H&T and it said he asked if he could 
borrow more against the watch. It looks like he also said hed only received £1,500. While Ill 
never know for sure what happened, I think the agreement is clear in setting out he 
borrowed £2,500. I would have expected him to raise the issue near enough straight away if 
it was £1,000 short. H&T said there was no cash discrepancy for that day. And taking 
everything into account, I dont find I have the grounds to say the most likely thing to have 
happened is that it gave him £1,500. 
H&T took the decision to waive the interest because CCTV wasnt available. I dont have the 
grounds to direct it to do more than this. But I think the decision to waive interest is relevant 
when considering what happened next. 
Mr M didnt redeem the item and H&T contacted him in December 2022 to let him know it 
was planning to sell the watch at auction in January 2023 with an asking price of £4,737.35. 
And it gave Mr M another chance to prevent the sale of the watch. I think this was fair in the 
circumstances given the terms Mr M has supplied say that when the property becomes 
realisable H&T could sell it by public auction or by private treaty. 
H&T wrote to Mr M after the auction to say it had realised £4,737.35 on the sale. But that 
Mr M wasnt due a refund. 
H&T has let us know the asking price was calculated by adding the loan amount to the 
interest that was due. If H&T had applied the interest, and the sale proceeds only covered 
that (and the loan amount) Mr M wouldnt have been due any reimbursement. In this case, 
however, Mr M wasnt charged any interest. So it complicates things. I can understand why, 
upon first reading the letter, Mr M may have thought hed be due a surplus. The Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that any surplus shall be paid by the pawnee to the pawnor. But 
was there a surplus?
H&T has said it sold the watch to itself. It referred to terms and conditions, but its not 
explained specifically how that works in practice. I dont know if its simply done something 
internally with its records or if its sold the watch to a different part of the business (or 
separate entity) so that it can be sold on through a store. As per the terms of the agreement 
that Mr M supplied, if the watch wasnt sold at auction, H&T was able to sell it through 
private treaty, but I think the explanation of how this works in Mr Ms case could have been much clearer  particularly given the special arrangement for interest he had due to the initial 
complaint he raised. The terms Mr M supplied us dont mention H&T would sell the watch to 
itself if it wasnt sold at auction. The terms say H&T is entitled to accept any reasonable 
offer. But how does that work if its making the offer itself? I cant see H&T has explained 
that. 
Putting all that to one side, Mr M accepted H&Ts offer of £1,358.65. This means that hes 
had the £2,500 funds from the loan, plus this separate payment. And hes not been asked to 
pay any interest. As I explained above, Im required to resolve complaints quickly and with 
minimum formality. By accepting the offer, it indicates Mr M was happy with it. He hasnt 
alleged the gross amount hes received is unfair. Seeing as though hes accepted this offer, 
in all the circumstances, it seems like a fair way to resolve the complaint. Im not minded to 
direct H&T to take any further action. 
I cant see weve received a response from H&T. Mr M responded to say, in summary:
He didnt see the terms and conditions and wasnt told the watch was sold internally. 
He wants to see this is common practice within the industry and if it was approved by 
the regulator. 
When he accepted the amount offered, he said he wasnt happy with the outcome. 
If H&T sold the watch internally why wasnt this communicated to him.
Why wasnt he offered the chance to buy the watch back. 
It was confusing how it worked with regards to the interest being applied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to thank Mr M for his response. 
Mr M supplied the copy of the terms and conditions Ive referred to, so Im satisfied he had a 
copy of them. I appreciate Mr M wants to know more about H&Ts practices. He says the 
process is confusing and he wants to know why H&T didnt communicate with him more 
clearly. Ive set out I agree H&T hasnt clearly explained how the process works in practice. 
And this case is slightly unusual in that there was a previous arrangement not to charge any 
interest. But I must base my decision on what I think is fair and reasonable having reviewed 
what Ive been supplied by the parties. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Im required to resolve complaints quickly and with 
minimum formality. Ultimately Mr M did explain he accepted the offer. The complaint was 
referred for decision because he wasnt reimbursed straight away. But this happened within 
a few days. Mr M hasnt alleged the gross amount he received for the watch was unfair. Im 
mindful hes not had to pay any interest or fees. And I cant see he mentioned, until now, that 
hes unhappy he wasnt given the opportunity to buy the watch back. So this isnt something 
H&T considered, and it didnt form part of the complaint. Mr M may wish to contact H&T to 
see if the watch is still available to purchase if hes looking to do that. 
Taking everything into account, Mr M pledged a watch as security and entered into a fixed 
sum loan agreement with H&T. He was unable to pay back what was owed within the 
relevant timescale. H&T warned him the watch would be put to auction if the agreement 
wasnt paid. This didnt happen. And while H&T hasnt clearly explained how the mechanics 
of the sale worked, and I think it ought to have communicated more clearly, Mr M accepted 
an offer to resolve things. In the round, Im satisfied that this draws a line under things for all 
the parties. Im not going to make any further directions. My final decision
My final decision is that Harvey & Thompson Limited trading as H&T Pawnbrokers has done 
enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman