DRN-2654543
The complaint
Mr L complains that he couldnt operate his Fixed Savings Pot or close his account with 
Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo).
What happened
Mr L opened a Fixed Savings Pot with Monzo in June 2019. Its balance was £500. It 
matured in June 2020. The funds were transferred to his Monzo current account. In 
September 2020, he transferred the balance to another bank.
Mr L complained that he couldnt add money to the Fixed Savings Pot or withdraw money 
from it. He said it wasnt clear when he opened the account  and Monzo advertised that this 
was possible. When he wanted to close his current account with Monzo, he wanted them to 
send him a cheque, but they wouldnt. He then transferred the balance to another bank 
himself, but he wanted Monzo to close the account  but he didnt want to go through their 
online ID process to close it. He considered that the original ID that hed provided should be 
enough.
Monzo said that Mr L agreed to the terms and conditions of the Fixed Savings Pot when he 
opened it. They wouldve been accepted by Mr L  as it wasnt possible for it to be opened 
without that taking place. The terms of the account said that there couldnt be any additions 
or withdrawals of money to it until the end of its term. In August 2020, Monzo said the 
balance of Mr Ls account had to be zero for them to close it  unless he switched to another 
bank using the current account switching service. This could be set up using Monzos app. 
Monzo told us that Mr L transferred his balance to another bank in September 2020.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said that maybe Monzo wasnt a 
bank that suited Mr L  its an online bank with no branches. She said that the Fixed Savings 
Pots app shown at application for the account  showed that you cant add or withdraw 
money until the end of the term. So Monzo had acted fairly in not allowing Mr L to withdraw 
money before the end of the term. Monzo didnt offer customers a chequebook - so it was 
reasonable for them not to send Mr L a cheque for the balance of his account when he 
asked for it. Theyd offered him the option of making a transfer to another bank within the 
app. In order to close Mr Ls account, they needed to see up to date ID, or Mr L could close it 
himself by going into the app. He didnt want to do this. 
Mr L asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset  let me say that our role is an informal dispute resolution service. We do not 
regulate banks. Mr L has made some comments and views about the wider legal and 
regulatory obligations of Monzo  and as such Im not going to address those. Our role to 
consider the arguments of both sides of his complaint and come to what we believe is a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
Its the case that Monzo is an online bank  it has no branches. It told us that any money 
must be paid in through Paypoint. Almost all contact with it is done online, through its app. 
They dont give customers a chequebook. And the Fixed Savings Pot was provided though a 
third party. Thats what customers using Monzo get  and its probably fair to say that it suits 
a lot of customers  but not all. 
So  when Mr L applied for the Fixed Savings Pot, he accepted its terms and conditions 
within the application process. He picked a rate and term and the message was displayed: 
Starts with £500..Cant add or withdraw money until term ends 
It went onto say Adding and withdrawingAs this is a Fixed Savings Pot, you cant add or 
withdraw money until the end of the term youchoose. Even we cant withdraw your money
Mr L has complained he wasnt aware of this  but it looks to me that it was made clear to 
him at the application stage. Ive also looked at the terms and conditions for the Fixed Rate 
Pot and they also say You cant add money to your Savings Pot after youve created it. The
initial deposit you make will be the amount that earns interest for you. They also say Can I 
withdraw money?...No. Your money is locked in for the length of the term you choose.
This was clearly a fixed rate savings account  and it would be very common for any such 
account offered by most banks and building societies to have the same, or similar, 
conditions. So, I cant say that Monzo acted unreasonably here.
Mr L has said to us that he didnt accept the terms and conditions as he didnt sign anything 
or get anything in writing. Nor did he realise the savings account was operated by a third 
party. Ive considered this. I can see he was shown the details and rules of the Fixed 
Savings Pot in the online application process. I can also see that the terms and conditions 
were shown and a summary of them. And it also said the savings pot would be operated by 
another party. The way that Monzo operate is that theyre an online bank and so, given this, I 
cant say that they acted unreasonably here.  
Mr L wanted Monzo to send him a cheque for the balance of his current account and then 
close it. But  he was frustrated as Monzo said they didnt issue cheques. As our investigator 
said, they dont even provide a chequebook to its customers - Im afraid its just not part of 
how Monzo do business  and they offered Mr L the option of making a transfer of money to 
another bank within the app  and thats what Mr L did in September 2020. And so, I cant 
say they acted unreasonably. 
In order to close Mr Ls current account, Monzo ask for up to date ID. Mr L says they 
shouldve relied on what he gave them when his account was opened. He also says hes 
concerned about identify theft. But Monzo told us that to prevent fraud, their processes are 
to ask for new ID at that stage  and from what I have seen, that seems reasonable. Mr L 
could also have requested the account to be closed within the app when he transferred the 
balance to another bank in September 2020. But he didnt. So  to close his account, Mr L 
must close it though the app; or by providing fresh ID within the in-app chat where they could 
verify his ID with a PIN entry or a new selfie.
I can see that Mr L feels strongly about what happened. But Ive reviewed everything, and I 
dont think that Monzo acted unreasonably here  and so, I wont be asking them to do 
anymore.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman