DRN-3594186
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC when he visited one of 
its branches and that his credit card was declined when making a purchase. 
What happened
Mr T has a credit card with Lloyds. In November 2021 he tried to use the card in a shop but 
the transaction was declined. Later that month he attended a branch to report the problem 
and make a payment against his card. During this visit he was unhappy with the service he 
received and subsequently made a complaint, where he raised the following concerns:
The transaction in the shop shouldnt have been declined.
Two other branches that were closer to where Mr T lives were closed which meant he 
had to travel further to attend a Lloyds branch.
While waiting to be served another customer pushed in front of him which was upsetting 
and he felt was racial discrimination. 
When Mr T asked for a staff members name they didnt tell him but instead showed him 
their name badge.
He paid £18.11 onto his card but only £18.01 was credited to his account.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint, in response to his points it said:
The transaction in the shop was declined because Mr T used a card that had expired.
It apologised for the fact the branches were closed but explained one was due to a refit 
following a fire and the other was due to circumstances outside of its control.
It didnt agree its staff had provided a poor service in the branch when Mr T visited.
It hadnt seen anything to show that the amount credited to Mr Ts account was incorrect, 
however it credited his account with the 10p difference between what he said he paid in 
and what was, as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr T was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr T asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything Mr T has said in relation to this complaint and I understand its 
caused him a lot of upset. However in my assessment of this complaint, I need to look at 
what Lloyds has done and if I think it treated him fairly and reasonably. 
Ill address each of Mr Ts concerns in turn.
The declined transaction
Mr T has explained that his card was declined with no explanation and that this caused him 
embarrassment. Lloyds has provided copies of records from its internal systems that show 
the transaction was attempted on a card that had expired, which was why it couldnt go 
through. However from these records I can see the transaction was attempted shortly after 
on a card that hadnt expired and this was successful.
While I understand having a transaction declined would cause Mr T some embarrassment, 
as this was due to the card used being expired I havent found that Lloyds have done 
anything wrong here. 
Closed branches
Mr T has said that he was unable to visit two branches that were more convenient for him as 
they were both closed. While I appreciate this would have caused Mr T some inconvenience, 
Lloyds has explained the reasons for the closures, and these are reasonable. Further, it isnt 
the role of this service to tell banks which of its branches should be open at what times. So 
Ive not found that Lloyds have done anything wrong here. 
The person who jumped the queue
Mr T has explained that while he was waiting to see a member of staff in the branch, another 
customer jumped the queue in front of him. He felt this was racial discrimination and hes 
explained the upset its caused. 
I can understand why this would have been a frustrating experience for Mr T, particularly as 
hes already explained he had to travel further than usual to attend a branch. However I can 
only ask Lloyds to take action where it has done something wrong. And as this part of Mr Ts 
complaint relates to the actions of another customer, this isnt something I can hold Lloyds 
responsible for. 
Treatment by branch staff
I understand Mr T feels he was treated poorly by staff in the branch. Ive considered his 
account as well as accounts provided by Lloyds from those present on the day. And while I 
understand Mr T had a distressing time when he attended, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
provided a poor service that would warrant a compensation payment. Its passed Mr Ts 
comments to those in branch and I think thats enough to ensure the staff members are 
aware of the impact the matter has had on Mr T. SO I wont ask it to do anything further.
Incorrect amount credited to Mr Ts card
Mr T says that he paid £18.11 into his credit account however only £18.01 was credited. 
Lloyds has said that there was no discrepancy in payments when they balanced the tills at 
the end of the day, so Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that it made an error. 
However it has credited Mr Ts account with the additional 10p and this is what I would have asked it to do if I had found it had made a mistake here. So I wont ask it to do anything 
more.
Conclusion
While I appreciate Mr T had a frustrating and upsetting experience, Ive not found that Lloyds 
has got anything wrong and that it has treated him fairly and reasonably. So I wont ask it to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman