DRN-3825795
The complaint
Mr Ls representative Mr W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 17 October 
2019 that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt treat him fairly and/or properly take his 
circumstances into account when the term of his mortgage ended. Specifically, he is 
concerned that in March 2019 Barclays rejected options he put forward to settle the balance 
of the mortgage, and instead instructed solicitors to seek possession of the property.
What happened
Background
In 2008, Mr L took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays. The term of the mortgage 
was ten years, ending on 16 July 2018 (when repayment was due), with a balance of 
approximately £894,000.
In 2014, Mr L suffered a serious injury, which had a significant impact on his day-to-day 
living and which led to substantial cognitive impairment. 
Mr Ls representative, Mr W, has provided evidence of medical advice Mr L had received not 
to move home as it would affect his recovery and wellbeing. Between February and July 
2018 Mr L and Mr W provided Barclays with a substantial amount of information about Mr Ls 
condition. Barclays acknowledged this in correspondence and its internal notes make clear 
Barclays was aware of this. 
In 2018, the term ended. But Mr L wasnt able to repay the mortgage balance immediately at 
that point, and could not take out another product because at that point Mr L had not 
returned to work and therefore had no active income. 
Mr W said that Barclays assured Mr L in July 2018 that he would not need to sell his home. 
He put forward a number of proposals to Barclays that would repay the mortgage balance on 
his home. It is relevant to note that he owned:
The mortgaged property that he lived in (home).
Farm assets comprising at least three properties. They included property that was in 
the process of being converted (barn 1), with the original intention being that it would be 
used as a holiday let, and two other properties (barn 2 and farmhouse).
Mr W spoke to Barclays on a several occasions. He put forward a number of proposals 
between July 2018 and March 2019 (plans A, B, C, D, E and F) to repay the mortgage  the 
list is not in order they were put to Barclays:
A. Obtain planning permission for barn 2 and then sell it and the farmhouse.
B. After Mr L returned to work, he would apply to refinance his mortgage on the home.
C. Sell barn 1  the conversion would be finished in June 2019.
D. Once barn 1 was converted,  take out a mortgage on the property and run it as a holiday 
let. The proceeds of the mortgage would be used to repay the Barclays mortgage].
E. If none of the above were acceptable, give Mr L time to sell the mortgaged property 
rather than seek immediate possession.
F. Mr W offered to pay a reduced settlement of £800,000 to clear the mortgage to allow Mr 
L to move into another property he had found. Mr W said this was due to the worry of 
Barclays potentially deciding to repossess Mr Ls home
Mr L paid £150,000 to the mortgage during the period that Barclays considered his 
proposals.
In March 2019, Barclays rejected Mr Ls plans and wrote to him to say that it would start 
legal action to repossess the home. 
Mr L redeemed the mortgage on 1 May 2019, meaning that the proposed legal action did not 
take place. I understand the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property were used to 
repay the mortgage. 
The complaint
On Mr Ls behalf, Mr W complains that Barclays:
Went back on its assurance from July 2018 that Mr L would not need to sell his home.
Never properly considered plan C, in that this wasnt put to its panel.
Made a decision to start repossession action when it decided plan A wasnt acceptable in 
circumstances where plan C was still viable.
Delayed consideration of Mr Ls plans to repay the mortgage, and made that an 
unnecessarily drawn out experience, involving a lot of back and forth and lengthy phone 
conversations.
Led Mr L to make different decisions than he would have had the process not gone on 
for so long and if it had given him the correct information in the first place. That has led to 
him incurring over £200,000 in avoidable costs. It has also caused Mr L substantial 
distress and inconvenience.
Hasnt replied fully to a subject access request (SAR).
Provisional decisions
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. But following submissions from 
Barclays and Mr L I issued a second provisional decision. While I upheld the complaint in 
part, I didnt consider that Barclays acts or omissions were the cause of the financial loss 
that Mr L is claiming. My provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
This is a complex case. There have been detailed submissions from both sides following my 
provisional decision, including new evidence. I have thought very carefully about the 
outcome in this case. I will explain my findings below, using the same headings that both 
sides have used in response to my provisional decision.
Overall I still dont consider that Barclays treated Mr L fairly or reasonably. But following both 
sides submissions  and in particular the evidence about how Mr L was able to fund the 
purchase of the new property  I have found it difficult to sustain the argument that the 
losses Mr L is claiming flow from Barclays error. In other words, I dont consider the 
evidence we now have supports that Mr L was truly left with no other option but to sell the 
mortgaged property. I am therefore satisfied that Barclays is not responsible for the financial 
loss Mr L is claiming. I will explain my reason why.
1. Plan C to sell barn 1 immediately was not a viable option
Plan C was to sell barn 1 following its conversion, which would be finished in June 2019. I 
am satisfied that Mr W put that plan to Barclays during a phone call on 14 March 2019.
Barclays notes of that conversation state:2nd proposal is wait until 07/2020 for the barns conversion in to the residential houses then 
sell it. Cus already have the planning permission until 07/2019 so they have to convert that 
before 07/19 they want us to wait until 07/20 for them to sell these and pay our balance.
Barclays notes of the panel meeting on 21 March 2019 state:
Mr Ws original proposal to sell the barn development properties is subject to several 
phases. Currently one barn is being converted into a residential property but the intention is 
to retain this property and let it out as a holiday home.
That does not reflect the proposal that Mr W had put forward. So I am not persuaded that 
Barclays properly or fairly considered plan C.
I agree with Mr W that Barclays appear to have confused other plans in its response. And I 
agree that it did not ask for evidence to support that plan C was viable. I say that as plan C 
was put forward on 14 March 2019 and all of Mr Ls proposals were rejected by Barclays on 
21 March 2019. There is no evidence to support that Barclays asked for further information 
about that proposal between it being put forward and Barclays making its final decision.
Where a borrower has requested an extension, the rules allowed Barclays to waive its usual 
considerations and make a decision based on whether a proposed extension was in the 
borrowers best interests. In this case, under plan C, Mr L had a property that would be 
completed around three or four months after the panel made its decision in March 2019. So 
the renovation of that property was already well under way.
If Barclays had communicated clearly and fairly with Mr W or Mr L, it seems more likely than 
not, that they would have been able to provide evidence to support the stage the renovation 
was at and when it would be finished. Mr L had asked for a further year after completion to 
sell the property and then repay the mortgage. Although I am satisfied that this would have 
been a reasonable and probably viable plan in the circumstances, I accept that there is a 
degree of speculation about what Barclays would and should have decided, and I discuss 
further below the fact that asking Barclays not to enforce its rights under the mortgage 
required proper transparency.
Mr L could afford to continue to meet the mortgage payments over the extended term. So 
Barclays was simply being asked not to enforce its right to possession (in line with its policy 
and what it had told Mr L) while still receiving monthly interest payments. Allowing plan C to 
go ahead would have meant that Mr L could have continued to live in the mortgaged 
property in line with the medical advice he had received. This was an important point and 
should have been at the front of Barclays considerations. I am satisfied that all of the 
evidence I have seen (and which Barclays was aware of) made clear that this was Mr Ls 
key priority and was fundamental to his best interests.
So I remain satisfied that Barclays didnt treat Mr L fairly  because it didnt consider all of 
the plans he put forward in detail and it hasnt demonstrated that it properly understood Mr 
Ls need to remain in the mortgaged property.
2. Mr W was under the impression he would be guaranteed a 12-month Customer 
Voluntary Sale (CVS) hold
In my provisional decision I said that it was reasonable for Mr W to understand that Barclays 
operated the CVS scheme, where it gave customers 12 months to sell their property once 
the term had ended to repay the mortgage, subject to a few checks. But in this case, 
Barclays was first going to put plan A to its panel. Whether or not the panel accepted the 
proposal, Mr L would then have a further 12 months to carry out a sale.
I thought it was reasonable for Mr L to wait until he had received the panels decision on the 
understanding  based on what Barclays had told him - that he would then have twelve 
months to put any alternative plans into place. I said that as it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr L to put in place alternative plans  such as preparing to sell the home - until he 
knew whether his preferred plans were acceptable to Barclays or not.
I thought that in the circumstances it was not fair or reasonable for Barclays to try to go back 
on its earlier statement that, following the panels decision, Mr L would have twelve months 
to sell the property come what may. I said that the fact that it went back on its previous 
position meant that Mr L was forced to pursue an option that (i) was not in his best interests 
in the circumstances and (ii) caused him to incur substantial costs.
Barclays said that while it we did discuss the option of a 12 month CVS hold with regular 
reviews, this was never guaranteed or directly agreed but discussed as an option. Due to the 
complex nature of the proposals put forward which also relied on many variables, it is not 
unreasonable for Barclays to have requested supporting evidence in order for this to be 
considered. Barclays has said that it was never supplied with sufficient evidence to be able 
to agree a 12 month CVS hold
Mr W said that what Barclays said wasnt true  it didnt explain that the CVS would be 
conditional on the sharing of specific information and permission to speak to the estate 
agents. Mr W pointed to the transcript of the phone call of 2 July 2018, where Barclays said:
we have two options for customers that wanna sell their property on, like I say, whether its 
a second property that's unencumbered or its the security property that's being sold, either 
we're perfectly happy for customers to do it themselves or we've got what we call an 
assisted voluntary sale where we've got, I don't know whether you're familiar with something 
called AMG Asset Management Group
When Mr L explored the sale of the secured property, this was not under the CVS process 
that Barclays had said it would provide. Mr W says this was an emergency, last resort 
measure taken out of fear and desperation given that Barclays had failed to make a 
decision.
After listening to the phone call of 2 July 2018 I consider it would be difficult for me to 
maintain that the comments regarding a 12 month hold were unequivocally binding. Looking 
at what was said as a whole and all of the evidence that is available to me, it seems that any 
decision on whether to offer a 12 month hold or not was dependent on a number of factors. I 
dont consider that Barclays can necessarily be taken to have given an irrevocable 
guarantee that a 12 month old was on offer no matter what the panel agreed. And I think that 
 considering that it was being asked not to enforce its rights under a contract  it was 
reasonable for Barclays to expect full transparency from Mr L and Mr W about their affairs. 
However, Mr W does not appear to have been clear about the details of the sale of the 
mortgaged property or the purchase of the new property, as well as the associated finance.
I accept that Barclays communication has been poor. But I dont consider that is enough for 
me to say that Mr L and Mr W could rely on what was discussed on 2 July 2018 as being a 
firm offer from Barclays to agree the 12 month hold.
3. Allowing the mortgage to continue without a viable plan
Mr W proposed plan C in March 2019. Barclays is relying on earlier evidence it had received 
to show that plan C was risky. But it accepts that Mr L only had until August 2019 to 
complete the renovation of barn 1 (which Mr W points out was in fact until July 2019). 
Barclays made its decision in March 2019. It would have been straightforward for it to ask for 
up to date evidence to show the progress of the renovation and the likelihood of it being 
completed by the deadline. It appears that it relied on out of date information. And, there was 
some confusion about the different plans. This was avoidable and I consider it would have 
been reasonable for Barclays to set out its understanding of what plans it was considering 
and have Mr L confirm that its understand was correct in view of the complexity and scope 
for confusion.I cant see that Mr L or Mr W have ever said that the mortgaged property had been adapted. 
It doesnt follow that there was nothing stopping Mr L from moving home. The medical 
advice we have was clear that he shouldnt because of the likely impact on his wellbeing  
and on any reasonable view that was unlikely to have changed since it was given. It said that 
moving would cause Mr L stress and anxiety and that he needed the stability, consistency 
and routine of living in the mortgaged home. The advice said that moving would lead to 
confusion and reduced ability for Mr L to manage situations effectively and that it would 
detrimentally affect his long-term prognosis. Its not clear why Barclays considers that 
whether the property had been adapted or not was relevant to the disability Mr L has.
4. The sale of the subject property and its suitability
I consider that Barclays has a point here. We now know that Mr L was able to raise 
£500,000 from another lender, secured against the new property. I cant see any reason why 
he would not have been able to arrange similar borrowing against the mortgaged property. 
Mr L was able to raise a further £286,000 from his own resources. That would leave 
£108,000 of the Barclays mortgage to repay.
When Mr L moved, the shortfall of £72,000 was made up by funds from Mr Ws family in 
view of the threat of repossession. Mr W points out even if his family had been prepared to 
provide funds to repay the Barclays mortgage, that would still leave a shortfall of £36,000  
and Barclays made it clear that no shortfall would be acceptable to it. I agree that in the 
circumstances it would be unlikely that Barclays would accept any proposal that did not 
involve all of the secured debt being repaid in full.
What this does show, however, is that there were further options available to Mr L  and that 
those options had not been put to Barclays. It also shows that with Mr Ls resources, Mr L 
was able to raise sufficient funds to go ahead with his plans.
Its not clear why Mr L did not explore alternative ways of raising the funds before selling the 
mortgaged property. It also seems likely that a combination of borrowing, existing available 
funds and the sale of some assets would have been a viable plan to repay the mortgage.
Ultimately this was a two-way street. The contract Mr L had entered into meant that he was 
obliged to repay the mortgage in full by 16 July 2018. But Barclays should understand that  
as in this case  borrowers circumstances can change. It had the ability to waive its usual 
checks providing the proposed changes were in Mr Ls best interests. That was what 
Barclays panel was considering. That does not mean that Barclays has to accept every 
proposal put to it. Nor does it mean that it must approve a plan because it is what the 
borrower wanted. It is reasonable for it to balance its own interests against those of the 
borrower. There is likely to be so he mortgage balance was not repaid by the intended date.
Looking at the timeline provided by Mr L, it seems that the plan to sell the mortgaged
property and to buy the new property was well underway by the time that Barclays panel 
made the decision to begin legal action And the evidence we have shows that Mr L was able 
to raise £500,000 secured against the new property from another lender. We have a facility 
letter from 12 April 2019 for £500,000. While that was after the date Mr L exchanged 
contracts for the sale of the mortgaged property (10 April 2019) it seems likely that 
discussions regarding the loan were made before exchange and that Mr L knew that this 
was an option he could explore and that there was a strong likelihood that he would be able 
to raise funds this way.
Overall, the new evidence regarding the how Mr L was able to raise funds (using his own 
assets and new borrowing) makes it difficult for me to say that the losses that Mr L is 
claiming directly flowed from Barclays errors here. While there is necessarily a degree of 
speculation and a number of variables here, it seems likely that there were other steps Mr L 
might have taken which would have avoided the need to sell the mortgaged property. I am 
satisfied that  albeit one made in circumstances of significant stress  the decision to sell the property and move elsewhere has to be considered to have been a choice rather than 
something Mr L was forced to do. So on the basis of the evidence I have seen I dont think it 
would be fair to expect Barclays to cover the associated costs.
I should make it clear that I still consider that Barclays hasnt treated Mr L fairly  its 
communication was poor, it didnt consider all of the proposals that Mr L put to it and it didnt 
place sufficient weight on what it knew about the medical advice that Mr L had received. But 
I dont consider that those failings were the cause of the financial losses that Mr L is claiming 
here.
Putting things right
I consider that Barclays hasnt treated Mr L fairly and reasonably. I say that because:
Barclays hasnt demonstrated that it considered plan C in detail. This was a potentially 
viable plan that if it had been explored might have been in Mr Ls best interests.
Barclays didnt communicate with Mr L (or Mr W) in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Mr Ls circumstances and the plans hed put forward were complex. There 
was room for confusion. It would have been possible for Barclays to adjust its 
communication to make sure that Mr L and Mr W knew what information it needed and 
to check that Barclay understood the detail of what Mr L was proposing.
There was a lot at stake here. I consider that there was more Barclays could have done to 
set out what its process was, what the relevant timescales were to make a decision, to set 
out clearly what information it needed and to confirm what plans it was considering. It wasnt 
a clear or coherent process  and that has led to Barclays not considering all of Mr Ls 
proposals.
I can see why Mr W found it stressful in having to deal with different members of staff and to 
explain Mr Ls circumstances repeatedly over lengthy phone calls. The FCA defines a 
vulnerable consumer as someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to detriment, particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of 
care. It isnt in dispute that Mr L met that definition.
I think that Mr W  although not a customer of the bank  probably met that definition too. He 
was Mr Ls carer and Barclays decisions here would have a significant impact on his own 
life. While he was not Barclays customer  and is not eligible to bring a complaint to us in 
his own right  good practice would require businesses to put in place the same principles 
for carer where it could. And there was no limitation here because Mr W had authority to act 
for Mr L.
If Barclays had identified Mr W as vulnerable too, then it ought to have adapted the way it 
communicated with him  and that might have made the process more straightforward and 
less likely that misunderstandings would happen. I havent taken this into account in 
awarding redress, but do think it contributed to Barclays misunderstanding the available 
options.
I note the points that Mr W has made about the Equality Act 2010. I am required to take 
the relevant law (amongst other things) into account in deciding what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I agree that Mr L has a disability 
as defined by the Act. I also consider that Barclays could have done more to adapt its 
approach in dealing with Mr L  both in the way it communicated with Mr L and in the 
consideration of the proposals he had put forward bearing in mind the medical advice.
I dont consider that that Barclays acts or omissions were the cause of the financial loss that 
Mr L is claiming. As set out above, Ive found that it was more likely than not that Mr L had 
other options available to him that would have allowed him to remain in the property.
Further, I cant see that Mr L or Mr W told Barclays that refinancing a substantial part of the 
balance was a possibility. That might have made a significant difference to Barclays consideration of this matter. While there have been failings by Barclays, in this situation it is 
reliant on open and full disclosure from borrowers regarding their financial situation. There is 
a reasonable expectation that borrowers will tell the lender about all options that are open to 
them bearing in mind that the term has ended and that the full balance is due to be repaid
And for the reasons set out above, on reflection, I dont consider that Barclays comments in 
the phone call of 2 July 2018 could reasonably be taken to be a firm commitment to offer a 
12 month hold or CVS in any circumstances  it was always subject to the circumstances 
and the decisions made by Barclays panel. I accept, however, that Barclays failure to 
communicate properly might have led to it not considering whether to offer a 12 month hold.
I dont consider that Barclays should compensate Mr L for any financial loss he has suffered. 
Mr L had other options. And I dont consider I could fairly conclude that the losses he is 
claiming flowed directly from Barclays acts and omissions, rather than decisions taken by Mr 
L  albeit subject to unfair treatment by Barclays.
It is clear that Barclays has caused Mr L avoidable distress and inconvenience. But bearing 
in mind Ive found that the cause of the loss was due to decisions taken by Mr L it follows 
that I couldnt say that Barclays was solely responsible for any distress and inconvenience 
that flowed from those decisions. So I have revised my findings on the amount of 
compensation for distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering.
We know that Mr L had suffered an injury that had a significant impact on his life. Hed 
received medical advice not to move home, where he had lived for around 20 years. His GP 
said that moving home would affect Mr Ls:
recovery causing stress and anxiety as he need stability, consistency and routine here 
[where he lived] and also not being forced to live [where he lives now]. Removing him from 
his home is likely to lead to complications and confusion and reduced ability to manage 
situations effectively. I think it would detrimentally affect his long term prognosis and 
therefore any attempt to return to work. I would therefore encourage avoiding any attempt to 
cause stress and anxiety by having to sell.
Mr W has told us that Mr Ls injures are sometimes challenging to deal with ordinarily  but 
this matter has had an extremely negative impact on him. It had caused Mr L very significant 
levels of stress and anxiety. This information was before Barclays in 2018 and 2019 while 
the discussions were ongoing, and I think that its reasonable to say that Barclays could 
have foreseen the impact their decisions had on Mr L.
When Mr L sold the mortgaged property he moved into another property in the same city. Mr 
W said that Mr L wasnt settled following the move and that it had been an extremely 
destabilising and upsetting. He said that it had caused ongoing uncertainty, stress and harm. 
And that meant that Mr L had to move again, to barn 1, where he now lives.
The evidence we have shows that Mr L was settled in the mortgaged property  and he had 
received medical advice to remain there. He had to move against that advice. Ive found that 
Mr L had other options that could have allowed him to avoid such a move. But on the other 
hand Barclays had not properly considered all of Mr Ls proposals
The evidence we have supports that moving has had an extreme impact on Mr L. Mr W has 
told us that it caused Mr L ongoing stress and anxiety for at least three years. We have 
medical evidence that he was to avoid stress and anxiety because it would harm his 
recovery. Mr W has told us that Mr L feels isolated living away from friends and family and 
this matter overall has caused a significant deterioration in Mr Ls health.
That is along with the inevitable upheaval of moving home twice and the associated 
inconvenience of that. Again, bearing in mind what we know about Mr Ls health, that will 
have added to his distress and suffering.So the impact of Barclays acts and omissions and moving home has had an extreme impact 
on Mr L and has caused him distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering over a period of 
more than three years. Mr L is vulnerable  and the matter overall will have had a negative 
impact on his health.
I originally found that Barclays should pay Mr L £6,000 for any distress, inconvenience, pain 
and suffering. But that was on the basis that Mr L was left with no choice but to move 
because of the way that Barclays dealt with him. My revised findings are that Barclays was 
not solely responsible for Mr Ls decision to move. Moving home was a significant (but not 
the only) cause of the distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering Mr L experienced.
There is always going to be some distress and inconvenience for a borrower when the term 
of a mortgage ends without the means to repay it as agreed. Barclays is not responsible for 
that. But I have identified failures in the way that Barclays dealt with Mr L before it made its 
decision. I think that will have added to the distress and inconvenience Mr L suffered from 
the date the mortgage term ended until it was repaid. I agree there was likely some benefit to 
Mr L of Barclays taking as long as it did to make a decision. But it will also have led to 
uncertainty and stress for Mr L over a period of almost a year. I consider that bearing in mind 
Mr Ls health  and the implications of the delay and uncertainty on that  it would be fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to pay him £1,000 to reflect that.
In regard to the distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering caused by moving home to Mr L
 I think Barclays contributed to that in its failures. So I still consider it should compensate Mr 
L for a proportion of the distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering he experienced in 
moving home. Bearing in mind Ive found that compensation of £1,000 is fair for the impact 
on Mr L before the mortgage was repaid that leaves £5,000 for the impact on Mr L for having 
to move home. Ive found that was largely avoidable  but Barclays likely contributed to that. 
And it is likely that Barclays acts and omission will have caused Mr L upset on the basis that 
he will be left feeling that things might have worked out differently had Barclays acted fairly.
After very careful consideration, I consider it would be fair for Barclays to pay Mr L a total of
£2,750 for any distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering. That is made up of £1,000 for the 
impact to Mr L of Barclays handling before the mortgage was repaid and £1,750 to reflect its 
contribution to the impact of Mr L moving house and any upset caused by Barclays flawed 
decision.
Barclays accepted my provisional findings. Mr L did not. His representative made a number 
of points, including:
My first provisional decision accurately reflected the true position that Mr L and Mr W 
found themselves in as a consequence of Barclays conduct and behaviour in respect of 
this matter. Id concluded that Barclays should have agreed to plan C and if it had Mr L 
wouldnt have sold the mortgaged property. Almost all of the findings I made in my first 
provisional decision are either unchallenged or otherwise unchanged in my second 
provisional decision. That is important. My underlying findings of 1) Barclays numerous 
failings and 2) my assessment of what the bank should have done arent affected or 
changed by my second provisional decision.
My second provisional decision, which has been read in conjunction with my first 
provisional decision, has a number of differing conclusions but in many (in fact most) 
respects makes the same findings as the first provisional decision as to Barclays 
conduct in this matter. The first provisional decision and the second provisional decision 
both find that Barclays failed to treat Mr L either fairly or reasonably. It appears that the 
fundamental change between your first and second provisional decisions is that in the 
second decision I concluded that I dont consider the evidence we now have supports 
that Mr L was truly left with no other option but to sell the mortgaged property. That provisional conclusion is set against the backdrop of the findings in my first provisional 
decision. 
Context is fundamental to this matter. Barclays was the expert not the consumer, Mr L. 
In addition both Mr L and Mr W were vulnerable consumers within the 2015 FCA 
definition of the term, and where Barclays had clear and unchallenged medical advice 
that moving Mr L from his home would have a detrimental impact on his health that 
advice should have been at the forefront of its decision process  it was not. There was 
in those circumstances a clear inequality of arms between the parties  Barclays holding 
the power and control and the vulnerable consumer, Mr L, being in a position of 
disadvantage. That put the burden squarely on Barclays to ensure that it fully complied 
with MCOB and FCA principles including the fundamental principle to ensure that it acted 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer 
and where Barclays was required to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
customers and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. Barclays failed to fulfil those clear and straightforward obligations. That 
burden was enhanced because of the vulnerability of the customer.
The notes that have so far been disclosed by Barclays and the transcripts of the July 
2018 call with Mr W is a confused and dislocated approach by Barclays in circumstances 
where various bank representatives had little or no grasp of the circumstances facing its 
customer and where there was no continuity of contact for a vulnerable consumer and 
where Barclays  staff were imprecise and unclear in much of their communications with 
a vulnerable consumer.
The second provisional decision, as we understand it, to reverse the award made to Mr L 
in the first provisional decision and to instead find in Barclays favour was predicated on:
oA finding that Barclays did not make an irrevocable guarantee that a 12 month 
hold was on offer no matter what the Panel agreed; and
oThat I was unable to see any reason why (Mr L) would not have been able to 
arrange similar borrowing against the mortgaged property referring to the sum of 
£500,000 which Mr L was able to raise from another lender secured against a 
separate property.
 The finding I am satisfied that  albeit one made in circumstances of significant stress  
the decision to sell the property and move elsewhere has to be considered to have been 
a choice rather than something Mr L was forced to do. is disputed in its entirety and 
does not reflect the context nor the manner in which Mr L was treated by Barclays. Nor 
does it reflect the practical reality that Mr L was forced to leave his home in 
circumstances where it was clear he didnt want to.
I had also found that Barclays did not treat Mr L fairly because its communication was 
poor, it didnt consider all of the proposals that Mr L put to it and it failed to put sufficient 
weight on what it knew about the medical advice Mr L had received.
As they understood my second provisional decision, while I found that Barclays failed to 
treat Mr L fairly or reasonably I found that Barclays did not make an irrevocable 
guarantee of a 12 month hold, and I was not able to see any reason why Mr L would 
have been unable to have arranged borrowings of £500,000 against the mortgaged 
property. It Mr Ls representatives  understanding that it is for those two reasons that I 
reversed the conclusions in my provisional decision. 
My finding that Barclays did not make an irrevocable guarantee of a 12 month hold
My first provisional decision set against the background of Mr Ls vulnerability and the 
specific circumstances in which he and Mr W found themselves taking into account the 
overall discussions between Mr W and the various individuals from Barclays. I found it 
was reasonable for Mr W to understand that Barclays operated a policy where it would give customers 12 months to sell their property to repay their mortgage, and where, in 
this particular case, Barclays was going to first put Mr Ls proposal to its panel and then, 
if the panel did not accept that proposal, provide a 12 month period from that date of 
non-acceptance to carry out a sale and that the CVS process was to allow the sale of 
either the security property or any second properties that are owned. It doesnt really 
matter which. That explanation is telling and reinforced the belief that a CVS stay was 
available). There is nothing in the second provisional decision which contradicts that 
finding. In other words it remains the position that Mr W acted reasonably in 
understanding that Barclays operated a policy of giving customers a 12 month stay to 
sell their property to repay their mortgage. The reasonableness of Mr Ws belief was a 
direct result of how bank representatives had repeatedly presented that 12 month stay to 
him. He believed and it was reasonable for him to believe that he and Mr L would have 
that CVS 12 month stay extended to them.
Taken in the context of the circumstances facing Mr W at the time that understanding 
was objectively reasonable in all the circumstances and the evidence in fact suggests 
that it was also the understanding and the intention of employees of Barclays. Barclays 
own note on 9 October 2018 specifically stated,  to be followed by 12 month customer 
voluntary sale within standard policy. That note is important as it forms part of a chain of 
evidence whereby with increasing certainty Barclays Bank was making representations 
to Mr W that (1) the 12 month CVS hold was standard bank policy and (2) that if all else 
failed that safeguard was in place to provide a breathing space whereby Mr L would 
have control over the sale of his property rather than face a repossession. The threat of 
repossession was in fact removed by bank representatives  see for example 2 July 
2018 telephone call where Barclays tells Mr W that it wouldnt repossess the mortgaged 
property. Mr Ws belief that the CVS stay would be put in place in the event that became 
necessary was entirely consistent with the banks clear and frankly unequivocal 
representation in that call that the bank was not going to re-possess the mortgaged 
property. There is a clear difference between repossessing a property which Barclays  in 
that call made clear would not occur and the need to sell the property if all else failed 
which is precisely how Barclays put it in her own note following an earlier call with Mr W 
 see below.
That chain began no later than 19 April 2018 in Barclays call with Mr W on that date. In 
that call a number of proposals were tabled by Mr W including (1) time to allow Mr L to 
recover and return to work, (2) time for barn 1 to be completed and then mortgaged to 
repay the Barclays lending and (3) time to obtain permitted development approval on 
various of the farm assets so that those could be sold under a CVS. In Barclays own 
note following this call it wrote that Mr W was advised of policy and that the proposals 
would need to be referred up the management chain concluding the note with: I also 
advised that we would expect the provision that if all else fails we may require sale of the 
security address
That note can only be reasonably understood to reflect that Barclays had conveyed to Mr 
W that if the bank either refused all of his proposals or alternatively accepted one which 
then did not come to fruition the bank would then impose a 12 month CVS hold to allow 
the mortgaged property to be sold. It was not intended to suggest that the bank would 
repossess  the bank subsequently expressly assured Mr W that it would not do so. In 
those circumstances the only viable and reasonable explanation for Barclays note 
referred to above is that if all else failed the bank would, as was its policy, put in place a 
12 month CVS hold. That was Mr Ws understanding of Barclays representations to him 
during that call and that understanding was plainly reasonable not least in circumstances 
where Barclays later expressly removed the threat of repossession.
The April call with Barclays was followed on 2 July 2018 with a further call on the same 
subject. During that call further, more explicit, representations were made to Mr W by 
Barclays. In that call, after a long period of silence where Mr W had been put on hold so that the call handler and her superior could discuss the matter. Barclays said this: Okay, 
so Ive just spoken to my team leader again and weve just discussed your account much 
further and my team leader has stated wouldnt be able to look at the proposal Mr W, we 
wouldnt be able to look at the stay of action until we waited for those proposals due to 
there is no guarantee that those proposals at the end, those things are going to come 
through, and so what I can do for you today is I can certainly let you know in order to 
redeem the outstanding balance we can give you a 12-month, 12-month hold on the 
account. If you wanted to look at selling the secured property, we will give you that 12 
month hold and thats one solution that we can look at today if youd like to do that Mr W. 
I do understand that I have definitely talked this through with my team leader and the 
outcome is that we wouldnt be able to look at the due to there is no guarantee what 
would happen at three year.
That representation, received in the context of the earlier call in April, reinforced Mr Ws 
understanding that (1) Barclays would as a worst case fall back position put in place a 12 
month hold so that Mr L would retain control over the sale of the property if all else failed 
and (2) that hold was something that was not required to be placed before the bank 
panel but could be put in place immediately  ie that day. That is the obvious and 
straightforward meaning of the words used by the Barclays on both of those calls and 
evidence from Barclays internal records suggests that was the Barclays own 
representatives understanding of those calls. The immediacy with which such a hold 
could be put in place strongly suggests that such action was within established bank 
policy  it did not need panel approval, it could be put in place that day. 
That the 12 month CVS hold was established policy at Barclays was, as I found in my 
first provisional decision, consistent with my knowledge of how other banks operate 
Barclays hasnt told us what its policy was or provided us with a copy. But it seems likely 
that it did operate a policy where it allowed borrowers a year to sell assets  that is what 
it said in a conversation to Mr W, and that is reflected in its own notes. This is in line with 
what many other lenders offer in my experience and is consistent with only seeking 
repossession as a last resort. So in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I am 
satisfied that this was its policy. If it was established bank policy  and I had found that it 
was  then the stay was available to Mr L. Not to have extended that stay to him would 
have been outside of bank policy. That is why Mr W understood that the CVS stay was 
everyones fall back position.
Barclays has a clear cut obligation to fulfil its responsibilities under MCOB and the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles including those set out at page 6 of 18 of my first 
provisional decision. The burden of proof does not rest on Mr L to demonstrate that 
Barclays had made an irrevocable guarantee of a 12 month hold. That artificially and in 
our submission entirely incorrectly and unfairly increases the imposition of the burden 
that is now being placed on Mr L to make good his complaint. The burden rests on 
Barclays to demonstrate that it fulfilled its obligations under MCOB and the FCA 
Principles and it is clear that it failed to do so on this occasion.
Barclays made repeated references to a 12 month stay in its internal records of 9 
October 2018 and 31 October 2018 respectively. On 9 October 2018 Barclays Bank 
records: Proposal: 12 month stay of collections actions subject to quarterly review for 
progress of Planning Permission and payments of £874.11pm to cover interest and 
reduce the capital. (To be followed by 12 month customer voluntary sale within standard 
policy).
That record was written over three months after the July telephone call and some six 
months after the April call and clearly establishes Barclays understanding of its position 
 that there was a proposal for an initial 12 month stay which would be followed in any 
event by a further 12 month CVS stay which was within standard policy. Some two 
weeks later on 31 October 2018 in another of its internal records, Barclays recorded: Initial Panel Form has requested Stay of Action pending Planning Permission on 
property to be sold.  That entry simply serves to reinforce Barclays own understanding 
of the offer that it had made to Mr L and that the CVS stay or hold did not require panel 
consideration. That is why the CVS hold was not put to the Panel  there was no need to 
because such a stay was within policy and had already been put forward to Mr L as the 
fall back position.
That proposal by Barclays of the fall back 12 month CVS hold had, by the end of October 
2018, first been made almost seven months earlier and the 2 July 2018 call should be 
considered in the overall context of the discussions between the parties. It is clear from 
the evidence that both Barclays and Mr L and Mr W were working on the basis that a fall 
back position in the form of a 12 month CVS hold was agreed and did not need further 
bank approval. That was why none was sought by the bank for the CVS stay. That offer 
had been made on clear and unambiguous terms to Mr W during the recorded telephone 
conversation of 2 July 2018 following from the earlier conversations between the parties 
as already set out in this letter.
Those representations made by Barclays were then reinforced by another member of 
staff who later14 in the 2 July 2018 call (and who was then speaking with Mr W), 
explained that the breakdown between the application to the panel for the nine to 12 
month preparatory period (which he described to Mr W as being anything between sort 
of six up to maybe 12 months at a push) would then, according to Barclays, from that 
point, wed then look to put in place this voluntary sale hold which we could then do for 
up to 12 months, that would be my, what I would see as being the proposal. That 
representation by Barclays of the fall back 12 month hold became an accepted outcome 
by Barclays during 2018. It was entirely reasonable that Mr W and Mr L shared that 
understanding. Barclays is now attempting to re-write history by seeking to impose an 
artificially high and fundamentally unfair burden on Mr L by requiring evidence of a 
guarantee. Mr L does not need to establish what is now being required of him by 
Barclays in order to make good his complaint. The test is whether on the balance of 
probabilities the bank offered to put in place a CVS 12 month stay if all else failed and 
the contemporaneous documents and recordings speak for themselves as I had already 
found in the first provisional decision. The bank made that offer in clear terms and that 
offer was relied on.
It is extremely difficult to see how those representations made by employees of Barclays 
can be seen as anything other than clear proposals or offers put by the Bank to Mr W for 
a 12 month hold period in any event. Mr L and Mr W were entitled to rely on those 
representations and they did so rely. When taken as a whole they represent a series of 
clear and repeated assurances put by Barclays to Mr W that a 12 month hold period 
would be put in place as a fall back. Whether or not Barclays was confused  and the 
evidence suggests that it might have been  between the various plans, as you correctly 
pointed out in your first provisional decision, that was a matter for Barclays and it should 
have taken steps to make sure that it understood what it was being told. It is equally 
clear, again reflected in your first provisional decision, that no later than 14 March 2019 
Barclays was aware of Plan C and that as a matter of fact Plan C had been put forward 
to the bank.
Barclays Banks approach to disclosure and the impact of that conduct on this 
complaint
It was inappropriate for Barclays not to disclose its policy. Without evidence to the 
contrary it must be presumed that it was established bank policy to allow borrowers a 
year to sell assets  and that did not require panel oversight.
If plan C wasnt acceptable to Barclays it should then have given Mr L time to put 
alternative plans in place both because Mr L was vulnerable and because that was 
Barclays policy. Whether or not Barclays provided an irrevocable guarantee is an unfair and inaccurate standard to impose on Mr L. I came to the correct approach in my 
first provisional decision.
Barclays Bank obligations to Mr L
Under the FCAs Principle 7 Barclays had a duty to pay due regard to the information 
needs of its customers and communicate to them in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. If Barclays is now saying that it did not mean to convey that a 12 month fall 
back hold was available to Mr L it should have told him that at the time. The onus was on 
the bank, not Mr L. By imposing a higher standard Barclays is trying to reverse the 
obligation imposed on it by the FCA Principles. In circumstances where Barclays failed to 
clearly and fairly communicate with Mrs (who it knew was vulnerable), it is Barclays who 
is at fault not Mr L.
The transcript of the phone call of 2 July 2018 supports Mr L and the recollections of Mr 
W. The Information Commissioners Office found that Barclays failings in went beyond 
technical infringements  it broke the law. Barclays failure to disclose the transcript of the 
phone call had a direct and further impact on how it treated Mr L and Mr W. Had it 
disclosed the transcript of call recording when it was investigating Mr Ws complaint in 
March 2019, then it would have quickly become apparent that Mr Ws complaint was 
valid and that he had been told by Barclays that it wouldnt repossess the property and 
would provide a 12 month CVS hold. Barclays failure to comply with its disclosure 
obligations and the commitment it made to investigate the March 2019 complaint had a 
significant and wider impact. It made it more difficult for Mr L and Mr W to make good 
their complaint. It is still not clear if Barclays has released all relevant documents.
Barclays assertion it was waiting for further information from Mr L
Barclays current position is that it didnt come to a final view on the 12 month CVS hold 
because it was waiting for further information from Mr L. That is different to what the 
evidence suggests. In my second provisional decision I said that it was not unreasonable 
for the bank to ask for supporting evidence in order for a 12 month CVS to be 
considered. Barclays position that it wasnt given sufficient evidence to agree a hold is 
inaccurate.
On 16 June 2018, more than two weeks before the 2 July 2018 phone call Mr W had 
given Barclays information about Mr Ls income, expenditure and assets in a prof forma 
document. It is clear from the call recording that Barclays did not realise this information 
had already been provided and that Barclays representations concerning the 12 month 
CVS hold was made after Mr W had brought to Barclays attention that the financial 
information had already been received by the bank. Barclays did not request any further 
information which serves as confirmation the bank had all the information it required. 
Barclays assertion now, some years after the event, that it had asked for, and was 
waiting for, further information is an inaccuracy on the banks part. Further information 
was only requested following the first panel meeting in November 2018  long after the 
bank had agreed the CVS period and it related to works under plans D and A. The fact 
that the bank wasnt waiting for any information form Mr L undermines its position now 
that it couldnt make a decision about the CVS stay. The reality was (1) the bank wasnt 
waiting for any information and (2) the CVS sate was the banks policy and (3) the bank 
had given Mr L a clear representation that it would not repossess.  
Barclays assertion that it was not in possession of all information that it had requested is 
important not least given that it is contradicted by what it said in the 2 July 2018 phone 
call I think its a fairly solid proposal.. I have asked everything I need to anyway so if 
there is anything youre not sure of, do you have any further questions. It is striking 
that Barclays does not request any further information but instead represents it has 
everything it needs.Taking into account the finding in my first provisional decision that the 12 month CVS 
hold was Barclays policy, there is no evidence that Barclays requested or actually 
needed any more financial information from Mr W in order to operate the policy where it 
allowed. The bank has refused to disclose its policy. If there were such a requirement it 
would be in the policy. It is for the bank to show that it needed specific information, that it 
had not been provided and what that information actually was.  The bank cant make 
good on any part of that  it told Mr W that the bank had everything it needed. It has 
already been established that Mr L was able to pay the interest that was due during that 
period. In reality there was no further information the bank required  which is evidence 
by the fact that it didnt ask for any more information about income and expenditure once 
it had received the financial information in June 2018. Barclays hasnt made good its 
assertion that it did not have sufficient evidence to agree a 12 month CVS hold.
My second provisional decision
The three matters raised in my second provisional decision have all been resolved in Mr 
Ls favour: Plan C was not a viable option; Mr W was under the impression he would be 
guaranteed a 12 month CVS hold; and the mortgage to continue without a viable plan..
Both my first and second provisional decisions made a clear finding that Barclays did not 
treat Mr L fairly and that it failed to consider all of the plans put forward in detail and 
failed to demonstrate it had properly understood Mr Ls need to remain in the property.
It is not incumbent on Mr L to demonstrate he had a guaranteed 12 month CVS hold and 
it was in any event a clear conclusion that had been reached by both parties that a 12 
month CVS hold would be put in place. As  to the mortgage continuing without a viable 
plan, I found that Barclays relied on out of date information when considering plan C and 
was confused between different plans  and that confusion was avoidable. I found the 
medical advice was clear that Mr L should not move from the mortgaged property.
That leaves the sale of the subject property and its suitability.
Did Mr L in fact have other options that would have permitted him to remain in his 
home?
In my second provisional decision I could not see any reason why Mr L would not have 
been able to arrange similar borrowing for the mortgaged property as he went on to 
arrange with a different lender against a different property. I also questioned the 
availability of financial support from Mr Ws family.
Context is important. Barclays had been aggressively clear that it was not prepared to 
accept anything other than 100% repayment of the mortgage balance. That was the 
message given to Mr W in circumstances where it knew or should have known it was 
dealing with vulnerable customers who were in a position of weakness in terms of their 
ability to bargain with Barclays. Barclays had twice (on 19 April 2018 and 2 July 2018) 
reviewed the options available to Mr L and guided Mr W in terms of what proposals 
Barclays would put forward to its panel. At no point did Barclays tell Mr W that it would 
accept or even put to its panel for consideration any kind of partial repayment with the 
loan being allowed to run. In fact, Barclays told Mr W that Mr L did not meet the minimum 
requirements for a mortgage with Barclays.
Had any form of hybrid solution been available where Mr L could pay down a significant 
proportion of the Barclays mortgage with the remainder being left in place, then Barclays 
should have told Mr W that was an option in either the 19 April 2018 or 2 July 2018 
conversation. The opposite message was conveyed  as set out above.
The advance available from the new lender was a first charge over the property it was 
taking as security. In the circumstances Mr L and Mr W were facing, where Barclays was 
increasingly uninterested in considering various proposals made by Mr W on Mr Ls behalf for repayment, it is overly simplistic to suggest that the new lending could have 
been replicated by way of a second charge over the mortgaged property. Does Barclays 
suggest this was within its own lending policy? If so, it should provide evidence of that. 
The new lender has confirmed the basis of its lending. It confirmed that it would not have 
lent more, over a longer term, or where there was other debt as each of those factors 
would have had an impact on affordability. Any outstanding Barclays debt would have 
represented other debt and would have made the new lending unaffordable.
Mr L received financial advice in June 2018. That did not include any suggestion that a 
hybrid proposal involving a part payment of the Barclays debt was available  and 
Barclays did not contradict that when it was the advice.    .
The advice from the financial adviser was that Mr Ls options were limited if he did not 
return to work. He set out three options: 1) Subject to earnings, take out a new 
residential mortgage in two to three years time; 2) If Mr L was able to return to work, but 
on reduced hours, a combination of some level of residential remortgaging and 
borrowing against another property to repay the Barclays mortgage; or 3) In three yeas 
time Mr L would potentially have the proceeds of a pension to reduce or repay the 
Barclays mortgage.
In my first provisional decision I found that it was reasonable to interpret the letter from 
Barclays of 21 March 2019 as a refusal to engage any further with Mr L and Mr W. When 
Mr W complained Barclays did not change its position. My conclusion was that while the 
letter encouraged Mr L and Mr W to engage with Barclays, when Mr W complained he 
did try to discuss alternative options. If the matter had still been open for discussion, 
Barclays should and would have told Mr W that was the position. I had correctly found 
that Barclays was set on pathway to repossess the mortgaged property and that is 
fundamental to understanding Mr L and Mr Ws response and reaction.
The only other borrowing available to Mr L was with the other lender who he had a long 
term account relationship. The borrowing options for Mr L was narrow because he 
couldnt work  unless Barclays would wait in line with the recommendations of Mr Ls 
financial adviser. The other option was plan C  and I found in my first provisional 
decision that was a viable option. In those circumstances, taking into account the banks 
conduct, Mr L was forced to find an alternative place to live. Barclays was on the face of 
it threatening to take enforcement action against him and had in its second proposal to 
its panel on 21 Mach 2019 only sought authority to start repossession action  despite 
Mr W putting forward a plan to sell the barn 1 under the CVS arrangement. The bank 
hasnt explained why it did not consider this option and only sought to start repossession. 
That supports that it was fixed on repossessing by that point. It is not consistent with the 
bank now presenting itself as being open to discuss other options.
Mr W did try and engage with Barclays up until a week before Barclays started 
repossession action and when he complained. That was not the action on behalf of 
someone who had chosen to sell their home against doctors advice or who had the 
means to remain in their home. Had Mr L had the means to remain in his home he would 
have done so. There is no evidence to suggest otherwise. Even Barclays in its response 
to my first provisional decision accepts that it was a last resort for Mr L to move home.
Mr L and Mr Ws fears were compounded when Barclays told Mr W that the bank would 
not halt the repossession process. That is in the context where Barclays accepts that it 
did not act appropriately in dismissing the complaint and without carrying out a proper 
investigation. That the bank now seeks to criticise Mr W for not engaging with it 
demonstrates a negligible understanding of the consequences of its actions on 
vulnerable consumers. Mr L and Mr W understood from the banks actions that it was set 
on one course of action, which it would not halt.Barclays rejected plan C  which was a viable plan. It is unreasonable to have expected 
Mr L to continue to present other plans against a backdrop of a lender continually 
refusing to consider, let alone accept, other viable options. The position I take in my 
second provisional decision that  there were other steps Mr L might have taken to avoid 
selling the mortgaged property were highly speculative and contradicted by the factual 
matrix. The other steps arent particularised or evidenced as being actual options. It is 
speculation at best.
Context is important  By this stage Barclays was acting in an unfair and unreasonable 
way towards Mr L and Mr W as I found in both my provisional decisions. Mr L and Mr 
Ws actions were a direct reaction to that treatment and in fear of being repossessed. 
The bank had unreasonably refused to accept plan C, removed the option of a CVS stay 
and instead getting authority to repossess, the treatment on 21 March 2019 and the later 
conduct by the bank in handling the complaint are examples of what little trust was left in 
the banks intentions towards them.
Against that backdrop, did Mr L really exercise any choice in selling his home. Were 
there really any other options available to him which would enable him to stay in his 
home. Mr L was not exercising any choice and did not have the option to say in his 
home. If such an opportunity existed he would have taken it. When faced with the 
potential humiliation of repossession Mr L and Mr W concluded they had no choice other 
than to sell their home. The distressed nature of the purchase is best illustrated by the 
fact that within 12 months of moving in it became clear that the property wasnt suitable 
for Mr L, requiring the sale of that property and a further move. 
It is incorrect to say that if Barclays had been made aware that refinancing a substantial 
part of the balance (even though that was not a possibility) that it would have made a 
significant difference to Barclays consideration of this matter. It was not possible to 
refinance a substantial part of the Barclays mortgage  and it was insufficient when put 
together with what other funding was available. Barclays made it clear that it would not 
accept any shortfall.
One of the conditions imposed by Mr Ws family was that he did not share details of his 
familys assistance with Barclays  and he had to respect their wishes. And Mr Ws 
family was not prepared to extend any financial support to him and Mrs S to stay in the 
mortgaged property as they wanted him to move closer to his mother and so that his 
family could have regular contact with Mr L and Mr Ws son. It was also made clear that 
no support could be provided if there was any other lending in place. Mr Ws family only 
relented when Barclays started the repossession action and with a smaller amount of 
money. There was no offer of financial support that could be used in respect of the 
mortgaged property. Even if family support had been available, it wouldnt have been 
sufficient when combined with other lending to pay down the outstanding sum owed to 
Barclays.
Mr W was doing his best in very difficult and stressful circumstances where he met the 
criteria for being considered a vulnerable consumer. The suggestion that Mr L had 
options that could have involved him repaying the existing lending and staying in his 
home is speculative and incorrect. If Barclays considers that Mr L could have done so 
then it must make good that claim  and it hasnt done so and has instead suggested 
that Mr L could rely on a series of very significant assumptions  that are untested and 
unevidenced.  The suggestion is not made with any due regard to the circumstances 
faced by Mr L and Mr W as a result of the banks treatment of them.
I should reconsider my second provisional decision and adopt the findings I came to in 
my first provisional decision, which were accurate and properly reflect the proper and fair 
outcome of this matter.
I put Mr Ls response to Barclays. It replied:If a borrower cant repay their mortgage at the end of term, Barclays will support its 
customers. But ultimately Mr L was in breach of contract and the full amount is due to be 
repaid at maturity. It does not offer indefinite holds and any proposals would depend on 
the relevant evidence and be subject to review.
In order for a CVS hold to be put in place there are several requirements  but they do 
not involve the panel. It requires a letter of authority from the customer allowing Barclays 
to discuss the sale of the property with estate agents and solicitors. Details of the 
customers income and expenditure is assessed and a monthly payment agreed based 
on disposable income. Barclays would need to see evidence that the property is being 
marketed. If a second property is being sold it will need a letter of undertaking from 
solicitors 
A CVS hold can be agreed without the panels involvement up to a maximum of 12 
months. Regular reviews will take place to make sure the mortgage is repaid within that 
timescale.
If a customer makes proposals that are outside its standard process(as Mr L did) then 
those proposals are referred for review by its panel. It has provided evidence that Mr W 
did not wish to disclose CVS details  therefore it never explored CVS. Its focus 
remained on the proposals which its panel was considering.
It reiterated that it did not agree that it had forced Mr L out of the property when it issued 
a MAT 4 letter. That was by no means the end of the road. Its letters rejected the 
proposals, said it was appointing solicitors, were clear that further contact from the 
customer would be welcome and a halt to possession proceedings was possible. But it 
appears that Mr W had already made the decision to sell the mortgaged property.
It provided a copy of its CVS policy  but the process wasnt followed in this case as that 
was Mr Ls preference.
The members of staff that speak to customers arent qualified to make decisions whether 
to accept proposals or not  any such decisions must be referred to the panel.  It is 
highly probable that more information and evidence will be required at a later stage.
It acknowledged the service provided to Mr L and Mr W could have been better. But it 
isnt unreasonable for the bank to ask for further evidence or supporting documentation  
particularly due to the complexity of the proposals out forward and working outside the 
parameters of the original mortgage contract.
Following the original panel meeting, it wrote to Mr L on 13 November 2018 to ask if it 
could speak to Mr L directly or alternatively be provided with up to date information from 
Mr Ls GP or neurologist. It also asked for the following information to fully consider the 
proposals:
oDocuments showing the planning consent already agreed and any other 
submissions that are pending.
oEstimates or quotes for the building work.
oTimescales for the building work to be completed.
oReferences for the builders.
oProof of assets to be used for the building costs.
oEvidence of any additional funds to be provided by Mr Ws family to consider any 
shortfall and confirmation that it is their intention to supply those funds.
Barclays didnt receive all of those documents. Prior to the second panel meeting Mr W 
told it that an offer had already been placed on a property they were happy with and theyd received an offer on the mortgaged property. Mr W declined to disclose any 
information about the offers.
Due to lack of contact and not receiving the requested information, a Mat 4 letter was 
issued, which Mr L and Mr W took as the end of the road. Such letters are used to 
prompt contact from customers to prevent the need to litigate, which is always a last 
resort.
I put that response to Mr Ls representative. They replied:
Barclays employees operated under the same understanding as Mr L and Mr W  that a 
12 month CVS hold for the sale of farm assets had been agreed as a backstop. Barclays 
own records and the transcript of the 2 July 2018 phone call make repeated reference to 
the provision of a 12 month CVS hold as being withing the banks policy. To suggest now 
that the CVS arrangement was never explored is remarkable and contradicted by the 
banks own evidence.
Barclays CVS procedure dated 27 October 2017 does not refer to a letter of authority 
being required  that only appears in versions dated 16 April 2019 or later. Absence of 
such a requirement is consistent with the actions of Barclays. For example, in the phone 
call of 2 July 2018, Barclays does not request a letter of authority so it could speak with 
the estate agency  and no such request was ever made by Barclays.
The position that Barclays is now taking is entirely contradicted by the behaviour and 
actions of its employees at the relevant time. It is also contradicted by its own CVS 
procedure.
Barclays now says that it would need to see the property marketed  or a letter of 
undertaking if  a second property is being sold. That is inconsistent and contradicted by 
the actual approach taken by its staff. No such request was ever made by its employees.
Barclays did not act as a responsible lender as it claims in its dealings with vulnerable 
customers. It acted in a disjointed and confused manner throughout with no consistency 
of personnel and where Barclays staff failed to follow its procedure.
Barclays has confused plan F with its CVS process. Mr L was not asking for the CVS 
hold to sell the mortgaged property. Instead Barclays put pressure on him to do so and 
succeeded in doing so. In any event, Barclays response is inconsistent  it has also 
claimed that the CVS procedure did not apply in this case. In reality Barclays agreed to 
apply a backstop CVS for the sale of farm assets, which was relied upon by Mr L and Mr 
W in circumstances where it was reasonable for them to do so. Barclays employees 
clearly believed the backstop had been agreed. In the end, after taking eight months to 
consider the proposals, Barclays failed to honour the CVS, which was its standard policy.
 Barclays was wrong to say that the MAT 4 letter was not the end of the road. That was 
how it was seen by Mr W and its own employee who told Mr W in blunt terms that the 
bank would not stop its repossession process. Mr L and Mr W reasonably believed the 
MAT 4 letter was in fact the end of the road. If it was something different then Barclays 
would have behaved differently at the time in question.
Barclays has now disclosed an internal document which sets out  how it deal with a CVS 
hold. It describes it as a procedure. But that is inconsistent with the approach taken by 
Barclays at the time in question. Barclays employees consistently described the CVS as 
being within bank policy. Barclays has now confirmed that the CVS hold was part of its 
standard operating procedure  and that its staff were entitled to offer a CVS hold without 
referral to the panel. If Barclays staff made an offer of CVS without following its 
procedure that is matter for them, not Mr L and Mr W.Barclays has supplied several versions of the CVS document. version 1.1 pre-dates this 
complaint and there are two versions called version 1.3 and both dated 16 April 2019. 
There appears to be at least two versions missing from Barclays disclosure. 
The fact that the member of staff that Mr W spoke to on 2 July 2018 was someone who 
signed off the CVS document presents some difficulties for Barclays. The member of 
staffs conduct bears no resemblance to what Barclays now says he had authorised as 
internal procedure in the granting of CVS holds. This points to a confused and disjointed 
environment within Barclays in which senior managers are not following their own 
processes. The disclosure of this procedure undermines its attempts to justify its 
conduct. It points to constantly changing procedures not followed by the individuals 
responsible for its sign off and where the documentation appears to be materially 
incomplete. 
In the 10 October 2017 version which was in place during the 2 July 2018 phone call no 
detail is given about what process Barclays staff should follow in establishing a CVS 
hold. There is also no information about establishing a pre-CVS hold as there is in later 
versions. The transcript of the 2 July 2018 call supports that Barclays staff were 
authorised to approve  a CVS hold and a pre-CVS hold  - because that is what they did. 
At the time of the 2 July 2018 Barclays refers to a pre-CVS procedure, which 
corresponds with the procedure from the 12 April 2022 document.
The 16 April 2019 version of the document confirms Barclays could offer a 12 month 
CVS hold. Such an offer was made repeatedly by Barclays on the basis that it could be 
used for not only the sale of the mortgage property but also any other properties owned. 
The document also confirmed that the member of staff Mr W spoke to had the authority 
as a manager to authorise a further six month hold  either by speaking to the manager 
directly or when he was coaching another member of staff that was speaking to Mr W. 
Barclays is confusing plan F with a CVS hold. Barclays rejected plan F and refused to 
put it to its panel. That was on 13 March 2019  and that prompted Mr W to contact 
Barclays on 14 March 2019 to ask that plan F be put before the panel. Barclays again 
refused. During that call Mr W asked Barclays to put plan C to its panel , which it agreed 
to do. But we know that it did not go on to so. Barclays has refused to explain why it 
withheld plan C from its panel. An explanation that issuing a MAT 4 letter did not curtail 
further discussions is no explanation. Id found that it did curtail further discussion 
leading Mr L and Mr W to believe theyd reached the end of the road.
The material that Barclays has now disclosed sheds further light on the conduct of 
Barclays employees The 16 April 2019 version of the CVS document says that the panel 
has a 14 day  turnaround. The service level agreement wasnt adhered to and Mr W was 
repeatedly told that no decision had been made by the panel. Barclays has provided no 
evidence or explanation for these delays  and the delays were exceptionally distressing 
for Mr L and Mr W..
The CVS procedure documents now disclosed by Barclays show that its employees 
were able to offer 12 month CVS holds and that team leaders could offer a further 6 
month CVS hold  and the panel a further 12 months. Barclays now appears to be 
seeking to claim that a procedure is somehow different to a policy in circumstances 
where Barclays refuses to disclose its policy and where its employees were consistently 
referring to the granting of CVS and pre CVS holds as being within bank policy. The 
evidence from the time contradicts Barclays current position. 
Barclays statement that its employees who speak with customers are not qualified to 
make such decision but will collate information for the panel is contradicted by the CVS 
procedure it has now disclosed and by the conduct of its staff. At best Barclays appears to be suggesting that its own staff didnt follow procedure  that is a matter for Barclays  
and is disputed in view of the evidence it has now given.
Barclays was provided all of the information it had requested prior to the first panel 
meeting  its own notes state on 1 November 2018 that it now had sufficient information 
to update the panel form. The same is true of the second panel meeting as Mr W had a 
number of telephone discussions with Barclays where it confirmed the bank had all the 
evidence it needed. Barclays claim that it needed further information is untrue and 
should be withdrawn. We now know Barclays chose to not even put the proposals to the 
panel but merely asked for authority to repossess the property. Barclays did not intend to 
give reasonable consideration to any proposals at the panel meeting and was already 
set on a course to repossess the property. This was a questionable course of action 
which it has been unable to justify, given I had found that plan C was viable. 
In respect of the list of items that Barclays asked for in its letter of 13 November 2018, all 
of the evidence was provided to the bank and was the subject of discussion prior to the 
panel meeting. 
.It follows that he MAT 4 letter was entirely inappropriate. It had received the information 
it asked for. It knew it was dealing with a vulnerable customer and should have been 
aware that it had received the information requested . It is untenable for it to now claim 
the MAT 4 letter was intended to prompt contact  - and that view was not shared by its 
own employee. What emerges again is a very confused picture of the internal processes 
at Barclays which ought to be matter of significant concern for it. Barclays response 
entirely lacks credibility.
It is untrue and offensive for Barclays to suggest that Mr L was unwilling to meet with 
Barclays. in fact Barclays first panel instructed field agents t meet with Mr L, but it chose 
not to do so. Mr L wrote to Barclays on 5 February 2018 to say that he was happy to 
meet Barclays face to face. Barclays chose not to do so. But it did make Mr L attend a 
branch to authorise Mr W to deal with it on his behalf. So it was aware that a meeting at 
the branch was an option.
The latest response from Barclays is deeply concerning and serves only to weaken its 
already tenuous position in respect of this complaint. The response highlights systemic 
failures with the bank which its attempts to justify have wholly failed to address. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about the outcome in this case. Having done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusions that I did in my second provisional decision for largely the same reasons. 
Ive reminded myself that under the contract, Barclays was entitled to possession of the 
property when it was not repaid at term end. While I am satisfied that in the circumstances of 
the case fairness required that Barclays considered alternatives to possession, there are 
limits to what Barclays could reasonably be expected to do in this regard.
Barclays has belatedly provided a copy of its CVS procedure. While this is significant new 
evidence, I dont consider that it helps Mr Ls case. And it does not change the conclusions I 
reached in my second provisional decision. I will set out my findings below.
The 12 month CVS hold
I accept that Barclays had an obligation to pay due regard to Mr Ls communication needs 
and to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. I accept that it has not 
done that  and that Barclays also failed to adapt its communication (and the way that it 
dealt with Mr L and Mr W overall) in view of their vulnerability. And they were clearly in a vulnerable situation  because of Mr Ls health, Mr W was Mr Ls carer and their home was 
at risk. Those were all things the FCA said might indicate vulnerability.
I must look at what Barclays actually told Mr L and Mr W. Looking at what Barclays said, I 
dont consider it was reasonable for Mr L or Mr W to consider that as a result of their contact 
with Barclays it had agreed a 12 month CVS hold to follow the panels decision. Barclays 
explained that it had the ability to offer a 12 month CVS hold and that it was something it 
might be able to offer. I am not satisfied that, looking at the discussion as a whole, Barclays 
had clearly agreed to such a hold.
I note that while Barclays staff had the ability to agree a CVS hold, to do so they had to be 
satisfied (amongst other things) that a property was actively being marketed at that time. Mr 
L could not satisfy that requirement at the time of the July 2018 call.
Further, I think the transcript of the phone call sets out that litigation action and repossession 
were a possibility. That is referred to a number of times during the phone call of 2 July 2018. 
While Barclays explained that litigation and repossession was not an immediate issue, it 
did not rule it out entirely.
Did Mr L have other options that would have allowed him to remain in his home.
I still consider that Barclays failed to properly consider plan C  and that it did not put 
sufficient weight on Mr Ls health in making the decisions it did. So I need to consider what 
losses  if any  flow directly from Barclays flawed decision.
As I found in my second provisional decision,  in the circumstances it would be unlikely that 
Barclays would accept any proposal that did not involve all of the secured debt being repaid 
in full. It was never my intention to say that it was likely that Barclays would accept a 
hybrid solution with some debt remaining.
Mr L has provided evidence that the new lender was unlikely to have lent Mr L more than it 
did, over a longer term or where there was other debt. I accept that lender was unlikely to 
agree sufficient lending to allow Mr L to stay in the mortgaged property. But there is no 
evidence that Mr L explored other avenues. 
I dont consider that the advice from the IFA was likely to have set out every option that was 
available to Mr L. For example, the option he did end up taking  selling the mortgaged 
property and buying another  was not explored by the IFA. That leads me to conclude two 
things 1) The IFAs recommendations were not exhaustive. There were other things that Mr 
L could have done. 2) The situation in 2019 was different to that in 2018 when Mr L received 
the advice. Things had moved on.
We know that:
Mr L owned a property worth over £2million with a mortgage with Barclays of just under 
£900,000. 
Mr L was able to arrange borrowing of £500,000 through an existing banking relationship 
to buy another property for just under £2million and pay the stamp duty of around 
£140,000.
Mr L owned a number of farm assets outright. That included a property that was valued 
at £2.75million in 2022 and a property that was sold in 2021 for over £600,000  
although I accept the renovation of those properties had not completed at the time in 
question.Other than arranging borrowing through an existing banking relationship, it is not clear what 
other steps Mr L took to explore his options. In my experience, and knowing what assets Mr 
L held, it is likely that some other form of borrowing would have been available to him. 
For example, bridging finance is likely to have been available to repay the Barclays loan and 
would have given Mr L time to sell other assets  and the term of such a loan was in line with 
his expectations. There are likely to have been other options too, such as lending secured 
against the other assets. I dont consider it is reasonable to say that just because Mr L chose 
not to explore those options that Barclays should be responsible for any financial loss he 
may have went on to suffer. I consider that was a result of decision he chose to take (or not) 
 not any failure by Barclays. 
That is not to criticise Mr L or Mr W. I accept that the decisions they made were under a 
great deal of stress and that it was very important for them to avoid litigation and 
repossession. But ultimately, Barclays had no control over what they did or did not do, and I 
dont think its fair to expect Barclays to absorb all of the financial impact from Mr Ls injury 
when (i) it had a contractual right to possession and (ii) several months had already passed 
since the mortgage term ended. Before I could uphold the complaint on the basis Mr Ls 
representatives suggest I should, I would need to be satisfied that Mr L had taken sufficient 
steps to mitigate his position. I am not satisfied that there is sufficient evidence for me to say 
that the course of action they chose was truly their only option.
Mr Ls representative says there is no evidence that there were any other options available 
to Mr L. But other than the IFA advice received in 2018, the proposals put to Barclays and 
the decision to sell the mortgaged property, there is no evidence that Mr L considered 
anything else. So while there is no evidence of other options available to Mr L, equally there 
is no evidence to support that there was any real exploration of other options. And I am not 
satisfied that Barclays was under a duty  either as a matter of law or of fairness  to 
suggest additional options. While I fully understand why for Mr L moving out of the 
mortgaged property was a far from ideal option, I do think there were likely to have been 
other options open to him that would realistically have enabled him to redeem the mortgage. 
That may have had an impact on other aspects of his overall financial position, for example 
in terms of leveraging other assets. But given Barclays rights under the contract, and the fact 
that several months had passed since the mortgage was due to be redeemed, I dont think 
its unreasonable to expect that Mr L should have explored all other realistic options, other 
than what appear to have been his preferred options. 
I can understand why Mr W thought that Barclays letter of 21 March 2019 as the end of the 
road, bearing in mind his attempt to put forward another proposal on 14 March 2019, the 
content of the 21 March letter and the way of his later complaint was dealt with. It is still 
relevant that Barclays letter asked Mr L to contact it to discuss things further  and that 
reiterated what it had told Mr W in earlier phone calls. I can see why Mr W thought that was 
pointless. But that was his decision. 
We know that Mr L had put his property on the market, received an offer for it and found 
another property before Barclays made its (flawed) decision. But all of those things were 
outside the banks control. Those were all things that Mr L did.
Overall, I am not sufficiently satisfied that Mr L was truly left with no option other than to sell 
the mortgaged property. While he was not receiving any income, he had a significant 
number of assets. Mr L has not persuaded me that selling the mortgaged property was a 
genuine last resort. Therefore, I dont see how I could fairly conclude that Barclays should 
meet the financial losses that he is claiming.CVS procedure
Barclays has now provided copies of its CVS procedure. There are a number of different 
versions from 26 October 2017.
Barclays said it had previously given us this evidence. That is wrong  it has not provided it 
to us before. It is clearly relevant to my consideration of the complaint. Indeed the process 
was referred to in my first provisional decision. I cant consider complaint handling  but I 
can comment on the way that Barclays has dealt with this complaint. I agree with Mr Ls 
representative that its approach to disclosing evidence has been poor. Most of the evidence 
we have received has been from Mr L through the subject access request he made to 
Barclays. 
The CVS procedure is relevant to this complaint. My reading of the procedure is that it gave 
Barclays staff the autonomy to agree a hold on repossession action, subject to certain 
criteria being met. But I cant see that it gave staff the ability to exercise discretion or to go 
further than what was set out in the procedures it has given us.
If the bank upon rejecting Mr Ls proposals at the panel had instigated the CVS procedure it 
would have asked for details about the properties being marketed. It was reasonable for 
Barclays to expect full disclosure from Mr L. While Barclays might not have mentioned that 
before when speaking to Mr W, that reflects my findings that it had never actually agreed to 
a CVS hold. Rather, it set out that was a possibility. So I would not necessarily have 
expected it go to through all the requirements of such a hold. Although, it also might 
reinforce my findings that Barclays has not always recognised Mr Ls communication needs.
If on 21 March 2019 Barclays had contacted Mr L or Mr W and said the panel had rejected 
their proposals and was looking to put in place the CVS hold, it would have asked Mr L or Mr 
W if the property was on the market. 
Mr L might have had a preference to sell assets other than the mortgaged property. But I 
dont see how he could  acting in good faith  not have disclosed that the mortgaged 
property had an offer that was sufficient to repay the mortgage in full had been received. So 
it seems likely  and reasonable  that Barclays would have looked for Mr L to follow through 
with the agreed sale. If he did not do so, then it seems that would have gone against the 
spirit of the CVS hold and it is likely to have been rejected. I say that as the CVS procedures 
all include questions about whether any offers have been declined.
I also have to consider that for the CVS hold to be approved, Mr L would have needed to 
give Barclays authority to speak directly with his estate agent. While a letter of authority was 
not required until the April 2019 CVS procedure, the earlier procedure sets out that contact 
with the estate agent is required. In view of the nature of the questions Barclays would ask 
the estate agent, it is likely that the agent would not release that information without the 
borrowers authority. So although the procedure does not state this is needed, I consider it 
likely that in practice it would have been. 
Mr W declined to give estate agents details to Barclays  albeit against a backdrop, from his 
perspective, of the relationship with Barclays breaking down. But it makes it more difficult for 
me to find that Mr L and Mr W would have co-operated sufficiently with Barclays had it given 
them the opportunity to apply for a CVS hold. 
While Mr L and Mr W might have viewed the sale of the mortgaged property as a backstop, if 
Barclays had followed its CVS procedure it seems likely that it would have looked for Mr L to 
follow through with the agreed sale. There is no evidence that the procedure gave Barclays 
any scope to make exceptions to that. The only way that would be possible was by a referral to the panel. 
I note that Mr L wanted to sell other assets, but it isnt clear that things were at a stage 
where they would be able to satisfy the requirements of the CVS procedure. I say that as 
Barclays would have looked to start the CVS procedure soon after its letter of 21 March 
2019. Mr L would need to wait until June/July 2019 for the property to be finished and ready 
to market. I cant see that such a delay is allowed for under the CVS procedure. 
Based on the evidence we now have, even if Barclays had put in place its CVS procedure 
upon rejecting Mr Ls proposals, it would not have made any difference to the outcome here. 
Barclays would have found out that Mr L had accepted an offer for the mortgaged property 
that was sufficient to repay the mortgage. To allow a CVS hold it would have required Mr L 
to go through with that sale. There was no scope under the procedure as I see it, for 
Barclays to allow Mr L to reject that offer and look to sell other assets instead  particularly 
when those assets were not ready to be marketed at that point. 
Conclusion
I consider that Barclays hasnt treated Mr L fairly and reasonably. I say that because:
Barclays hasnt demonstrated that it considered plan C in detail. This was a potentially 
viable plan that if it had been explored might have been in Mr Ls best interests.
Barclays didnt communicate with Mr L (or Mr W) in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. Mr Ls circumstances and the plans hed put forward were complex. There 
was room for confusion. It would have been possible for Barclays to adjust its 
communication to make sure that Mr L and Mr W knew what information it needed and to 
check that Barclay understood the detail of what Mr L was proposing.
Barclays has said that Mr L didnt give it all of the information it asked for in November 2018. 
It hasnt put forward a persuasive case for that. But even if it didnt then that is likely to reflect 
its failure to communicate clearly. And that adds weight to my finding that it hadnt properly 
considered Mr Ls plans.
I dont consider that Barclays should compensate Mr L for the financial loss he says he has 
suffered. I consider it likely that Mr L had other options. And I dont consider I could fairly 
conclude that the losses he is claiming flowed directly from Barclays acts and omissions, 
rather than decisions taken by Mr L  albeit subject to poor treatment by Barclays.
It is clear that Barclays has caused Mr L avoidable distress and inconvenience. But bearing 
in mind Ive found that the cause of the loss was due to decisions taken by Mr L, it follows 
that I couldnt say that Barclays was solely responsible for any distress and inconvenience 
that flowed from those decisions.
We know that Mr L had suffered an injury that had a significant impact on his life. Hed 
received medical advice not to move home, where he had lived for around 20 years. His GP 
said that moving home would affect Mr L:
recovery causing stress and anxiety as he need stability, consistency and routine here 
[where he lived] and also not being forced to live [where he lives now]. Removing him from 
his home is likely to lead to complications and confusion and reduced ability to manage 
situations effectively. I think it would detrimentally affect his long term prognosis and 
therefore any attempt to return to work. I would therefore encourage avoiding any attempt to 
cause stress and anxiety by having to sell.
Mr W has told us that Mr Ls injuries are sometimes challenging to deal with ordinarily  but 
this matter has had an extremely negative impact on him. It had caused Mr L very significant 
levels of stress and anxiety. This information was before Barclays in 2018 and 2019 while the discussions were ongoing, and I think that its reasonable to say that Barclays could 
have foreseen the impact their decisions had on Mr L.
When Mr L sold the mortgaged property he moved into another property in the same city. Mr 
W said that Mr L wasnt settled following the move and that it had been an extremely 
destabilising and upsetting. He said that it had caused ongoing uncertainty, stress and harm. 
And that meant that Mr L had to move again.
The evidence we have shows that Mr L was settled in the mortgaged property  and he had 
received medical advice to remain there. He had to move against that advice. Ive found that 
Mr L had other options that could have allowed him to avoid such a move. But on the other 
hand Barclays had not properly considered all of Mr Ls proposals
The evidence we have supports that moving has had an extreme impact on Mr L. Mr W has 
told us that it caused Mr L ongoing stress and anxiety for at least three years along with 
impacting his physical health. We have medical evidence that he was to avoid stress and 
anxiety because it would harm his recovery. Mr W has told us that Mr L feels isolated living 
away from friends and family and this matter overall has caused a significant deterioration in 
Mr Ls health.
That is along with the inevitable upheaval of moving home and the associated inconvenience 
of that. Again, bearing in mind what we know about Mr Ls health, that will have added to his 
distress and suffering.
So the impact of Barclays acts and omissions and moving home has had an extreme impact 
on Mr L and has contributed to his distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering over a period 
of more than three years. Mr L is vulnerable  and the matter overall will have had a 
negative impact on his health.
I originally found that Barclays should pay Mr L £6,000 for any distress, inconvenience, pain 
and suffering. But that was on the basis that Mr L was left with no choice but to move 
because of the way that Barclays dealt with him. My revised findings are that Barclays was 
not solely responsible for Mr Ls decision to move. Moving home was a significant (but not 
the only) cause of the distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering Mr L experienced.
There is always going to be some distress and inconvenience for a borrower when the term 
of a mortgage ends without the means to repay it as agreed. Barclays is not responsible for 
that. But I have identified failures in the way that Barclays dealt with Mr L before it made its 
decision. I think that will have added to the distress and inconvenience Mr L suffered from 
the date the mortgage term ended until it was repaid. I agree there was likely some benefit to 
Mr L of Barclays taking as long as it did to make a decision. But it will also have led to 
uncertainty and stress for Mr L over a period of almost a year. I consider that bearing in mind 
Mr Ls health  and the implications of the delay and uncertainty on that  it would be fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to pay him £1,000 to reflect that.
In regard to the distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering caused by moving home to Mr L 
I think Barclays contributed to that in its failures. So I still consider it should compensate Mr L 
for a proportion of the distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering he experienced in moving 
home. Barclays likely contributed to that. And it is likely that Barclays acts and omission will 
have caused Mr L upset on the basis that he will be left feeling that things might have 
worked out differently had Barclays acted fairly.
After very careful consideration, I consider it would be fair for Barclays to pay Mr L a total of 
£2,750 for any distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering. That is made up of £1,000 for the 
impact to Mr L of Barclays handling before the mortgage was repaid and £1,750 to reflect its 
contribution to the impact of Mr L moving house and any upset caused by Barclays flawed 
decision.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr L £2,750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman