DRN-3550369
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Worldpay (UK) Limited (trading as Worldpay) has 
refused to refund a transaction which it didnt authorise.
The transaction was made using a merchant terminal in a salon that C owns. Ms I is the 
salon manager and has been appointed to represent C in this complaint by its director 
(Mr P).
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I didnt think 
Worldpay ought to refund the disputed £3,000 transaction that took place on 1 July 2018. My 
provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
With this in mind, Worldpay  which has been an FCA-authorised payment institution since 
April 2018  agrees that the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) may be used as a 
framework for deciding this complaint. I wont repeat in detail every term of the regulations 
that might be relevant to the case. But, for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied  with 
reference to the disputed £3,000 refund  that:
Worldpay was acting as a payment service provider (or PSP).
C was a payment service user and a payer.
The £3,000 refund was a payment transaction carried out through Cs merchant 
terminal, which was a payment instrument.
And I note the PSRs provide as follows:
A payer authorises a payment transaction when they consent to that transaction in line 
with the procedure agreed with the PSP.
In this case, C would have consented to the transaction if Ms I had entered the correct 
supervisor code into the terminal in order to authenticate the transaction. I note that 
Ms I says she didnt do this.
 If a payer such as C (or Ms I, on Cs behalf) denies having authorised a payment 
transaction that has taken place, their PSP must prove the payment was authenticated. 
In this case that means Worldpay must show that the correct supervisor code was 
entered.
A payment service user to whom a payment instrument (a merchant terminal, in this 
case) has been issued must:
Use the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing 
its issue and use; and
Take all reasonable steps to keep its personalised security credentials  i.e. the 
supervisor code and/or any other PINs  safe.
Where a payer did not authorise a payment transaction, the PSP must refund the payer. 
But the PSP will not be required to do so  and the payer will be liable for all losses  
where the payer has:
Acted fraudulently; or
With intent or gross negligence failed to comply with their duty to keep the supervisor 
code secure.
So, applying the PSRs, I will only be able to uphold this complaint if Im satisfied that Ms I or 
C did not authorise the refund, Ms I or C did not act fraudulently with respect to the refund, 
and Ms I or C have not  with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with the duty to 
keep the supervisor code secure.
Ive considered whether its more likely than not C authorised the disputed refund through 
Ms I completing the agreed steps to make the transaction herself or giving consent for 
someone else to complete them. And, where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive 
based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
For clarity, I will summarise what Ms I has told us she recalls about the events that took 
place on the day the disputed refund was made. She says two men came into the salon and 
were acting suspiciously. They came to the cash desk and enquired about suitable products 
for their hair. Ms I called over a hairdresser to help with the query, and also because of the 
way the men were acting. A hair product was selected and one of the men indicated he 
wanted to pay by debit card. Ms I used the terminal to try to take the payment. And, as is 
usual, she turned away for a moment to allow the man to enter his 4-digit debit card PIN. 
The transaction was declined. Payment was attempted a second time, but the transaction 
was declined again. The men said they would go to an ATM to get some cash and never 
returned. Receipts had been generated for the two declined payments which Ms I threw 
away  they dont retain declined transaction receipts as a matter of course. She says shes 
the only person that works in the salon who knows the 4-digit supervisor code required to 
process refunds and that this wasnt entered at any point in relation to the transactions that 
were processed for the two men. The only other people who know the supervisor code are 
the two company directors who are not present in, and have no involvement with, the day-to- 
day running of, the salon
Ive taken the above into account as well as the following:
Worldpay has provided a copy of some terms and conditions which appear to be dated 
October 2015. Its also shared a letter from December 2017 that say some updated 
terms and conditions were sent to C, at the salons address. The letter also set out the 
new, increased merchant terminal charges. And it seems likely, if this letter hadnt been 
received, that Ms I wouldve queried the higher charges that were subsequently applied. 
Ive seen no evidence she did so. Amongst other things, the terms and conditions 
explain that: C was responsible for controlling the use of its terminals, access codes and 
merchant data account. The form and procedure for making refunds was set out in the 
Customer Operating Instructions. Refunds should only be made to buyers in connection 
with goods and/or services which it had sold and the refund should not exceed the 
original sale amount. And Worldpay may refuse to execute a refund.Worldpay has provided a copy of the Customer Operating Instructions dated September 
2017, as referred to in the terms and conditions. This includes 15 pages of information 
about Payment Security, including a section on how to reduce card fraud which also 
sets out some important security tips such as keeping the supervisor code safe (and 
changing it regularly) because anyone with access to it could process fraudulent 
payments using the refund function. Also to keep the terminal in sight at all times during 
transactions to ensure no prompts on the screen are missed and so that a fraudster 
cannot interfere with the terminal. And, finally, to preserve evidence, such as CCTV 
footage. This document also sets out how to use the terminal and, in the refund section, 
refers the reader to the Terminal User Guide. It stresses the importance of completing 
daily reconciliations. And it reminds the reader to retain receipts for at least 13 months. 
Worldpay has provided a copy of its terminal Installation Guide which explains concisely, 
in four steps, how to set up a new terminal. The fourth step is to choose a 4-digit 
supervisor code and Ensure you can remember it as it will be required in order to 
complete secure functions on your terminal e.g. refunds. I accept Worldpays 
submission that without setting up such a code, it would not be possible to use the 
terminal. In effect C would have had to had to activate the terminal by following the four-
step process, rather than it coming with a standard/generic supervisor code which C 
could decide whether or not to change. The Terminal User Guide (titled How to use your 
terminal) also say that a 4-digit supervisor code must be entered when giving a refund 
and, if successful, a merchant receipt will be printed automatically for the customer to 
sign.
Ms I says she doesnt specifically recall receiving any of the documents Ive mentioned 
above. But thats not entirely surprising given the time thats passed  the replacement 
terminal and revised terms and conditions were delivered more than six years ago and 
memories fade over time. She hasnt ruled out the possibility they were provided. And 
shes also said shed worked at the salon and used a merchant terminal to take 
payments and make refunds for some time by 2016. She says she knew the importance 
of having a supervisor code, so when the new terminal arrived she would have set it up, 
including selecting a supervisor code that was personal to her and which she shared 
only with the two company directors. With all this in mind, Im satisfied (on the balance of 
probabilities) that the supervisor code required for refunds is one that Ms I set up and 
chose.
Ms I has maintained, throughout her dealings with Worldpay and this service, that she 
was the only person in the salon who knew the supervisor code and it was a number she 
had selected. As a result, she was the only person who worked at the salon who was 
able to process refunds. But that arrangement surprises me from a customer service 
perspective, as it means refunds could only processed when Ms I was present in the 
salon. So any customer who wanted a refund on Ms Is non-working days, during 
sickness absence or holidays would have to wait until she returned.
Despite what it says, I dont consider that Worldpay has provided explicit evidence which 
shows a supervisor code was entered for this particular, disputed refund. Regulation 75 
of the PSRs says that when a payment service user denies having executed a payment 
transaction it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction 
was authenticated, accurately recordedand not affected by a technical breakdown or 
some other deficiency in the service provided by the payments service provider. And 
that the use of a payment instrument (the merchant terminal, in this case) to process the 
payment isnt of itself necessarily sufficient to prove that C authorised the payment or 
failed to keep the details secure. Bearing in mind this obligation and that the supervisor 
code forms an essential part of the refund authorisation process, it seems strange that this information isnt retained as part of the payment process and related audit trail. I 
have taken this into account  and consider it to be a serious deficiency in Worldpays 
reporting and record keeping  but have also considered the wider circumstances when 
deciding on the implications of this.
Worldpay says it has tried, but failed, to force a refund through using one of its merchant 
terminals without entering a supervisor code. Although it has provided no direct evidence 
to support this, the terminal guides make clear that the supervisor code is an essential 
part of the refund process. And Ive seen no other cases which indicate its possible for 
an opportunistic fraudster to completely circumvent this part of process. Ive kept in mind, 
Ms Is suggestion that two suspicious customers came into the salon. But Im also 
satisfied that whoever processed the refund used the terminal and had to have known 
the supervisor code. And, overall Im currently satisfied that the payment was 
authenticated in line with the PSRs.
Worldpays records suggest that the debit card details were entered manually when the 
refund was processed. Its my understanding this means an individual used the keypad 
on the terminal to enter (as a minimum) the 16-digit card number, followed by the 4-digit 
expiry date and the 3-digit security number (also known as the CVV number) from the 
reverse of the card. Ms I says she was suspicious about the men and turned away from 
them for only a moment to give them the necessary privacy to enter their 4-digit debit 
card PIN. But that version of events gives no time for the card details to be entered 
manually. And over and above that, there is no credible explanation before me to 
account for how someone could have correctly guessed the correct supervisor code 
when there were 9,999 possible options.
I have no reason to doubt that Worldpays records are genuine  I dont believe it would 
deliberately falsify this evidence. And Im not aware of any way that a fraudster could 
influence the information sent by the terminal to Worldpay so that a chip read or 
magnetic stripe read transaction would otherwise appear as a manual entry. 
Ms I says they have CCTV in the salon. And Worldpays notes from a call that took place 
on 17 July 2018 suggest it advised Ms I to check this and pass it on to the police. The 
importance of retaining CCTV footage is also set out in the Customer Operating 
Instructions. But Ms I didnt do so and its not clear to me why she didnt obtain and 
retain the footage from the day in question, if it supported her recollection of events. 
Ms I didnt retain the declined transaction receipts and didnt notice the refund until some 
days later, indicating she didnt complete the recommended daily reconciliation. The fact 
she didnt heed the advice Worldpay gave about these things might suggest there were 
other pieces of its advice that she chose not to follow, much as the ones that relate to 
terminal and access code security.
Worldpay has a transaction monitoring team which, it says, is there to provide its 
merchants with extra security. The existence of this team, as well as the warnings it 
Includes within its literature for merchants, suggests to me that Worldpay understands 
the fraud risks and accepts, to an extent, that it has a duty of care to protect its 
customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. It also 
has to balance that with the requirement to execute authorised payment instructions 
without undue delay. With this in mind Worldpays records indicate that, the day after the 
refund was processed (and before Ms I queried the refund), its team noticed that the 
transaction was out of line with the salons normal trading pattern and didnt match a sale 
for the same amount. The team blocked the refund facility while it took steps to contact C 
about this. But the refunded amount had already been returned to the designated debit card and couldnt be reversed. So Worldpays actions served more of a precautionary 
function against future, erroneous refunds. Given the transaction was so out of character 
and there was no corresponding sale  from a fraud-prevention perspective and with the 
benefit of hindsight  it would have been helpful for the refund to have been blocked, 
pending further enquiries. However, I must also be careful not to apply rules and 
standards of today to the events that apply in this case, from mid-2018. And, at that time 
authorised payment institutions like Worldpay were not subject to the same expectations 
that applied to banks and building societies relating to customer service and fraud 
prevention. And, in any event, I think the refund was likely processed because someone 
had access to the correct supervisor code. So I dont think any earlier intervention by 
Worldpay would have stopped the transactions going through, because the outward 
features of the transaction gave Worldpay no reason to consider that it hadnt been 
authorised.
Overall, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, Im not currently persuaded that the 
events played out in the way Ms I describes. Im satisfied Ms I set up a specific supervisor 
code, and I cant see any basis upon which a third party could have guessed that code within 
the circumstances of the limited time Ms I says was available. Im satisfied Worldpay has 
established that its more likely than not the refund was either authorised by or on Cs behalf, 
or that someone able to act on Cs behalf as agent acted either fraudulently or failed with 
intent or gross negligence to keep the supervisor code secure, which enabled the refund to 
be processed.
Worldpay accepted my provisional findings. Ms I, on behalf of C, did not accept my
provisional decision and said, in summary that:
She doesnt personally have access to the salons CCTV footage. The salon owners 
(and directors of C) have access, but were away on holiday when the disputed refund 
took place. They tried to access the footage when they returned to the UK, but a 
technical issues prevented the relevant footage being retrieved.
She has always kept the supervisor code safe. In her absence the owners can authorise 
refunds as they also know the code. 
Worldpay have still not, to date, provided an audit trail which shows a supervisor code 
was entered in relation to the disputed refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only make my decision based on the evidence thats been provided and have done so 
in the absence of any CCTV footage. 
I have taken into account what Ms I says about the supervisor code, including the absence 
of an audit trail to show it was entered. But those are matters that I already considered and 
addressed in my provisional findings. 
With the above in mind, along with the reasons set out in my provisional decision and 
reproduced above, I still cant fairly instruct Worldpay to refund the disputed £3,000 
transaction.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman