DRN-3016191
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) unfairly declined her legal 
expenses insurance claim. 
Amtrust use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance policy and manage 
claims, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known, so I will not repeat everything again here. 
Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below:
The policy terms and conditions require the policyholder to notify Amtrust of any 
claim within 45 days of the insured event (when related to tenant evictions), which 
is defined as the incident or the start of a transaction or series of incidents which 
may lead to a claim or claims being made under the terms of this insurance. The 
initial incident that ultimately led to Mrs M making a claim was when her tenants 
refused to sign a new tenancy agreement in August 2018. However, the claim was 
not submitted to Amtrust until 14 June 2020. So Im satisfied the claim was not 
notified to the insurer within the designated notification period. 
However, section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 requires the insurers position to have 
been prejudiced before theyre able to rely on the non-compliance of a condition 
precedent (such as a notification clause) to escape liability. Amtrust submit that they 
wouldve appointed their own panel solicitors to handle matters if they had been 
notified of the claim within the 45-day notification period. However, Mrs M appointed 
her own solicitors and incurred costs of £8,160, which she presented to Amtrust after 
they had been incurred.
I appreciate that Mrs M initially wanted to resolve the matter herself, and also felt that 
the intricacies of Scottish law meant that she had to appoint her own solicitors to deal 
with the eviction. But the purpose of a notification clause is to enable the insurer to 
test the genuineness of a claim within a reasonably short timeframe, and to ensure 
that immediate steps are taken to mitigate the potential consequences. Amtrust were 
effectively denied this opportunity, which resulted in them being unable to oversee 
the costs being incurred and subsequently being presented with a bill from solicitors 
that they did not appoint or agree terms with. The legal action Mrs M was pursuing 
against her tenants then spanned over a couple of years. So I do consider that the 
delay in notification has operated to their detriment by materially increasing their 
potential liability to indemnify. As a result, this would allow them to refuse indemnity 
under the 2015 Act, and is also in line with our approach to resolving consumer 
cases on a fair and reasonable basis. 
As well as breaching the notification clause, the policy terms and conditions also 
state that there is no cover where advisers costs have not been agreed in advance 
or are above those for which we have given our prior written approval. Mr M did not 
seek prior authorisation from Amtrust to incur any legal fees, meaning theyre also 
excluded from cover under the policy terms and conditions. 
Amtrust were also denied the opportunity of assessing the claim to determine 
whether there were reasonable prospects of enforcing any judgment made in Mrs 
Ms favour, as well as being unable to determine whether the circumstances of her 
claim wouldve even been covered by the policy in the first place. I appreciate the 
policy does cover claims to recover possession where a tenant fails to perform their 
obligations as set out in the tenancy agreement. But Mrs Ms dispute stems from the 
tenant refusing to sign a new tenancy agreement after the monthly rent had been 
increased. Ive not seen anything to suggest that the tenant was obliged under their 
tenancy agreement to sign a new agreement or agree to an increase in rent. So it 
seems that Mrs Ms claim may not have even been covered in the first place. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M. But after considering all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that Amtrust have fairly declined her claim. So I will not be directing 
them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman