DRN-3943267
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt refunded the money he lost when he 
was the victim of two scams.
What happened
Mr H is represented in this case but for ease Ill only refer to Mr H in this decision. 
Mr H says that he saw a video on a social messaging site about investing in bitcoin and 
clicked on a link. He immediately received a call from someone from an investment company 
Ill refer to in this decision as M. Mr H wasnt given a rate of return or timeframe but was told 
that he was guaranteed not to lose money as bitcoin would never drop below a certain level. 
The representative of M advised Mr H that he could show him how to trade and used a 
remote access application to demonstrate this. 
Mr H looked up M on a social networking site and saw mainly positive reviews so decided to 
go ahead. He initially made a card payment of £261.48 to a cryptocurrency provider (rather 
than M) on 26 November 2020. He then called Lloyds to ask it to stop the payment as he 
said it related to fraud. Mr H was advised the payment was pending and that he should 
follow his terms and conditions in relation to withdrawals. Mr H says that after the call he felt 
reassured that M was a legitimate company. 
After Mr H had made the payment, he was able to see his profits grow on a trading platform 
via Ms website and this persuaded Mr H to invest more funds. The representative of M told 
Mr H to set up accounts with cryptocurrency exchanges but as Mr Hs passport was out of 
date, he was unable to do so. Mr Hs brother agreed to set up accounts for Mr H to use and 
Mr H transferred funds from his business account to his personal account and then on to his 
brother (J). J then sent the funds to cryptocurrency exchanges and on to the scammer. Mr H 
was with J when the transfers were made to the cryptocurrency companies and the 
scammers had remote access to help with this. 
Mr H was able to see on Ms portal that he had £50,000 profit and told M he wished to 
withdraw it. M told him that because of money laundering rules he needed to pay more 
before he could withdraw his profit, so Mr H made further payments. M later agreed Mr H 
could withdraw his funds but after he provided his bank account details M stopped all contact 
with Mr H.
Mr H called Lloyds on 28 December 2020 to report the scam. In that call he said that he 
followed the advice of the Lloyds advisor in his call on 26 November 2020 to pay the fees M 
requested and that was why he lost further funds in the scam. Mr H was advised that Lloyds 
was unable to raise a claim as the lost funds initially went to his brother.
Mr H then researched recovery companies to try to get his money back from M and found a 
company Ill refer to as R. R described itself as a law firm. Mr H says R had good reviews, a 
professional looking website and provided Mr H with a contract. R told Mr H it had traced his 
funds and could recover them, but as bitcoin had increased in value Mr H needed to pay 
more to balance the account. But Mr H was assured hed still make a profit. Mr H then sent 
further funds to his brother which were moved to different bitcoin wallets. R continued to ask 
for additional funds as bitcoin kept going up and then stopped communicating with Mr H. 
From 5 February 2021 onwards, most of the funds Mr H sent in respect of the second scam 
came from a bounce back loan.
I have set out below relevant transactions. The ones shown in bold are scam payments - 
those listed in November and December relate to the original investment scam and the 
payments from January onwards relate to the recovery scam.  
Date Transaction Amount
30 Nov 2020 Transfer to J £1,000
4 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £2,145
10 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £2,145
10 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £1,608.75
10 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £1,072.50
10 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £2,000
10 Dec 2020 Credit from business account £1,300
16 Dec 2020 Credit from business account £7,000
16 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £7,000
16 Dec 2020 Credit from business account £500
16 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £390
18 Dec 2020 Credit from business account £6,500
18 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £6,500
24 Dec 2020 Credit from business account £5,000
24 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £5,000
24 Dec 2020 Credit from business account £6,435
24 Dec 2020 Transfer to J £6,435
29 Dec 2020 Credit from business account £1,000
14 Jan 2021 Credit from business account £19,000
14 Jan 2021 Transfer to J £1,180
14 Jan 2021 Transfer to J £8,900
14 Jan 2021 Credit from business account £9,000
18 Jan 2021 Credit from business account £9,303
18 Jan 2021 Transfer to J £9,303
19 Jan 2021 Transfer to J £700
20 Jan 2021 Credit from business account £5,000
20 Jan 2021 Transfer to J £5,000
3 Feb 2021 Credit from business account £7,000
3 Feb 2021 Transfer to J £7,000
5 Feb 2021 Credit from business account £9,000
5 Feb 2021 Transfer to J £8,000
8 Feb 2021 Credit from business account £11,000
8 Feb 2021 Transfer to J £2,000
8 Feb 2021 Transfer to J £9,000
8 Feb 2021 Transfer to J £12
8 Feb 2021 Credit from business account £6,000
8 Feb 2021 Transfer to J £6,000
9 Feb 2021 Credit from business account £9,000
9 Feb 2021 Transfer to J £9,000
10 Feb 2021 Credit from business account £1,000
10 Feb 2021 Credit from another account £3,000
10 Feb 2021 Transfer to J £4,000 of which £1,000 from 
BBL
Total loss: £105,391.25
Mr H has explained that the scam has had a huge impact on him and has made him feel 
very stressed and depressed. He thinks Lloyds should refund all the funds he lost in both 
scams. Lloyds considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt agree to refund him. It said that as the scam 
funds left Mr Hs brothers account with another bank it couldnt help. Mr H was unhappy with 
this response and brought a complaint to this service.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. She 
said that Lloyds should have intervened when Mr H made the seventh payment of £7,000 in 
the table above and that had it done so the scam would have been uncovered and future 
payments wouldnt have been made. But the investigator felt that Mr H should share the 
responsibility for his loss as there were red flags in respect of each scam. 
Some of the funds used in the latter stages of the scam came from a bounce back loan. 
These payments are shown in italics in the table above. The investigator didnt ask Lloyds to 
refund these payments. 
Mr H accepted the investigators view, but Lloyds didnt. In summary, it said:
- Mr Hs funds went to the person he was expecting to pay  his brother  and from his 
brothers account to the scammer. The funds left his brothers account and so the 
claim should be raised with Mr Hs brothers bank. 
- The risk in this case was reduced as Mr H was paying an existing payee and there 
was a confirmation of payee match. Mr H also made payments to J that he hasnt 
disputed on 1 December 2020.
- Lloyds provided Mr H with a warning for every payment over £5,000. These warnings 
should have prompted Mr H to take further action to check what hed been told by the 
scammer.
- A discussion with Mr H wouldnt have made a difference as it was clear from his call 
to Lloyds on 26 November 2020 in respect of the card payment that he knew he was 
being scammed. There was no reason why Lloyds would know that Mr H continued 
to make payments via his brothers account. 
- Mr H didnt complete enough checks before making the payments. Lloyds noted that 
an FCA warning was added in respect of M on 10 November 2020, Mr H had no 
paperwork to show the terms of his initial investment, a little research would have 
shown that being required to make a payment to withdraw funds wasnt feasible, the 
recovery company had two out of five stars on a review site and there were scam 
warnings online, and Mr H didnt question paying the recovery company upfront when 
he expected it to take 2.5% of recovered funds.  
As the parties havent reached agreement the complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
The Lending Standard Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case because the purchase of cryptocurrency and the subsequent sending of that cryptocurrency to the scammer arent faster payments between GBP accounts, which is 
required by the Code.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The duty exists whichever party a customer pays. I accept though that a payment to an 
existing payee with a confirmation of payee match result would be less suspicious than a 
similar payment to a new payee. 
Im mindful of the fact Mr H spoke to Lloyds on 26 November 2020 in respect of a card 
payment for cryptocurrency that he thought was fraudulent. Mr H was told that as the 
payment was pending it couldnt be stopped and was provided with advice about looking at 
terms and conditions in respect of withdrawals. I dont agree with Mr H that this advice 
meant Mr H should make multiple payments to receive his profits.  Mr H wasnt given any 
cryptocurrency investment scam advice though  which is something Id expect in these 
circumstances  and Lloyds was alerted to the possibility that Mr H might suffer financial 
harm. A few days later Mr H started to make payments to his brother which ultimately went 
to scammers.  
Ive reviewed Mr Hs bank statements from October 2019 onwards. On 10 December 2020 
Mr H made four payments to his brother totalling nearly £7,000. Prior to this Mr H transferred 
larger sums between accounts but only made faster payments of up to £2,000. Then on 16 
December 2020 Mr H transferred £7,000 to his brother. After transferring nearly £7,000 on 
10 December Mr H was requesting a transfer that would take the total paid to the same 
payee to nearly £14,000 in a week (after paying £3,145 shortly before). The transactions 
followed the usual cryptocurrency scam payment pattern with a card payment followed by 
payments increasing over time. And the £7,000 payment request took Mr Hs balance to 
£4,813.26 overdrawn.
Whilst J (Mr Hs brother) was an existing payee he had only made a small payment of £30 to 
him before the scam started (on 25 September 2020). Lloyds has drawn to my attention 
three further payments of £1,000, £75 and £1,072.50 to J on 1 December 2020 that Mr H 
hasnt disputed. But I can see from Mr Hs statements that the following day Mr H transferred 
£2,127 to J. So I dont consider these payments to be relevant to this complaint. 
Given everything Ive said I consider Lloyds ought reasonably to have intervened when Mr H 
made the £7,000 payment request on 16 December 2020. Ive thought carefully about 
whether the kind of questions I believe ought fairly and reasonably to have been asked by 
Lloyds would have made a difference in this case. Having done so, its my belief that had Lloyds asked proportionate questions and given Mr H a warning about investment scams he 
wouldnt have made the payments without completing further checks.
Mr H would have explained he was paying his brother in respect of a cryptocurrency 
investment opportunity, he found out about the investment on a social media platform, was 
guaranteed he wouldnt lose any money and had no contract or other documentation and 
hadnt checked the FCA register. So there were some serious red flags that I think would 
have been disclosed if relevant questions had been asked. There was also an FCA warning 
about M from November 2020 (before Mr H started making payments to M).
I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr H was so anxious to proceed that he would have 
ignored warnings or been unprepared to postpone the payment to reflect on the matter and 
make further enquiries. 
I dont agree with Lloyds point that intervention wouldnt have made a difference because Mr 
H already knew he was being scammed (from his call about the card payment). The 
scammers were able to persuade Mr H that the investment was genuine after this call, as he 
made further payments after it in the belief the investment was genuine. Mr H was an 
inexperienced investor and wasnt alive to the warning signs of a scam so I consider that if 
Lloyds, as the expert here, advised him appropriately he would have taken the advice 
seriously and wouldnt have proceeded with the payments.
Lloyds has explained that it presented Mr H with an electronic warning each time he made a 
payment for over £5,000 which said,
Dont pay before you check  Are you sure you know where your money is going? Check 
the payment with someone you know and trust. Make sure you dont fall for a scam. If you 
do, we may not be able to get your money back. Find out how people can try to scam you  
here  do you want to make this payment?
Im not persuaded this very general electronic warning went far enough and can understand 
why it had no impact on Mr Hs decision-making at the time. And Mr H was initially making 
payments to his brother so knew where his funds were going. Lloyds provided this service 
with different wording during our investigation that was also very general so the above 
comments would apply to this warning too. 
If Lloyds had intervened and prevented further payments from being made in the investment 
scam, then Mr H wouldnt have fallen victim to the subsequent recovery scam, so I also think 
Lloyds is responsible (subject to what I say below) for these payments. 
And in any event, I consider Lloyds could have done more when Mr H reported the initial 
investment scam and when Mr H made further payments to J after he reported the first 
(investment) scam. The focus of Lloyds investigation into the initial scam was the advice 
given to Mr H when he made the card payment at the end of November 2020. Mr H wasnt 
given scam advice to prevent him falling victim to future scams during his call and the final 
response letter he received after complaining about the card payment (dated 4 February 
2021) gave limited scam advice but nothing that related to a recovery scam. And soon after 
Mr H fell victim to the first scam, he started to repeat the pattern of payments to J from 14 
January 2021 when he made two payments which totalled over £10,000. Lloyds didnt 
intervene and I consider it should have and that if it had the second scam would have been 
uncovered. 
Ive also thought about Lloyds concern the scam funds were passed through Mr Hs 
brothers account. Im satisfied Mr H is the one who experienced the loss (because the funds 
that were ultimately transferred to the fraudster were his and not his brothers). Mr Hs 
brother only created wallets and transferred Mr Hs funds on because a valid passport was 
required to open the crypto wallets and Mr Hs was out of date. The funds Mr Hs brother transferred never belonged to J and so J hasnt suffered a loss. And whilst I appreciate 
Lloyds has no information about where the funds went after they were transferred to J, I 
confirm Ive seen evidence which shows the funds were used in the scam. 
The amounts shown in italics in the table above stemmed from a bounce back loan for Mr 
Hs business. Mr H was using the loan for personal reasons in a second scam to try to 
recover the funds he lost in the first scam (and he was originally investing for personal 
reasons). So I dont think Mr H should receive a refund of these funds. 
Did Mr H do enough to protect himself?
Ive also thought about whether Mr H did enough to protect himself. On balance, I dont think 
he did. Ive considered each scam separately. 
Investment scam
- Mr H had fraud concerns before he made any scam transfers, but I cant see that he 
took additional steps to satisfy himself that M was a legitimate company. Im aware 
that Mr Hs representative has told this service that Mr H didnt have any concerns 
about being scammed at the end of November 2020 and just wanted to make sure 
the investment was right for him. Having listened to the call, I dont agree. Mr H told 
the first Lloyds advisor that hed done research and thought it was fraud and then told 
a fraud advisor that he wanted to stop the payment because of fraud. Given the 
concerns Mr H had I consider he ought reasonably to have taken action to satisfy 
himself M was legitimate.
- Mr H found out about the investment after seeing a clip on a social media platform. 
This is not how genuine investments are arranged. 
- Whilst Mr H says he wasnt advised of a rate of return he was told he couldnt make a 
loss. Investments of this type involve risk, so a guaranteed return ought reasonably 
to have been a red flag. 
- Prior to Mr H making his first transfer there was an FCA warning in respect of M. This 
warning comes up if you search for M online. 
- Mr H wasnt provided with a contract or any terms and conditions as youd expect 
with a genuine investment.  
- Mr H was asked to open various different cryptocurrency wallets but there doesnt 
appear to be any plausible explanation for this. 
So Im persuaded Mr H should receive half of the payments Im asking Lloyds to refund in 
respect of this scam. 
Recovery scam
I also think Mr H should share responsibility for his loss in the second scam. I consider that 
after falling victim to the first scam Mr H ought reasonably to have been particularly cautious 
about paying any form of advance fee to recover his funds. 
The premise of the recovery scam isnt believable in that R told Mr H it had traced his funds 
and could recover them. Im uncertain how it would be possible to trace funds sent to 
cryptocurrency wallets and recover them in this way. And the explanation that the funds had 
gone up in value, so Mr H had to pay more into cryptocurrency wallets to balance them out 
isnt credible and ought reasonably to have led Mr H to have serious concerns. Even if it was 
possible to locate and return funds paid to cryptocurrency wallets, paying more to return 
funds, and particularly the kind of sums Mr H was asked to pay, doesnt sound logical. So I 
think Mr H should receive 50% of the amount he lost in the recovery scam (but, as 
mentioned above, excluding the payments in italics in the table above). 
Mr H has said that before sending funds to cryptocurrency wallets he looked at reviews for R 
on a well-known review site and at Rs website. Mr H says R had a 4.7 rating and 112 reviews. Lloyds has referred to R having a much lower rating, but this is because it has 
looked at the current rating of R. I can only see one positive rating from November 2020 and 
then negative reviews which start in January 2021. I also note that R described itself as a 
law firm but was not registered as one. 
Recovery
As Mr Hs funds went to his brothers account first there was nothing Lloyds could have done 
to recover them.  
Interest
From the point at which I consider Lloyds should have intervened, payments made towards 
the scams came from Mr Hs business account. So I consider that were it not for the scam 
the funds would have remained in Mr Hs business account and been used for normal 
business expenditure. Given this, I am awarding interest at the rate of 8% simple per year.  
My final decision
For the reasons given I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
- Refund 50% of all scam payments listed in the table above from (and including) the 
£7,000 payment made on 16 December 2020 but excluding all payments in italics 
(only £1,000 of the £4,000 payment on 10 February 2021 should be deducted as the 
£3,000 credit didnt relate to the bounce back loan). 
- Pay interest on each payment at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman