DRN-4223347
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Lowell Financial Ltd making an administrative error.
What happened
Lowell had purchased 6 debts of Mr Ds. Mr D provided medical evidence, and Lowell 
agreed to write off all 6 accounts as a gesture of goodwill.
Lowell sent Mr D a letter confirming theyd closed his accounts, but this only listed 5 of the 
debts  one was missing. Mr D has explained that he found this very stressful.
Mr D called Lowell. Lowell apologised and confirmed that they had indeed agreed to close all 
6 accounts. They explained that it was just a system error as the remaining account had 
previously been assigned to another company. They confirmed theyd sort it out right away. 
Lowell then sent a follow-up email confirming again that all 6 accounts had a zero balance 
and were closed.
Mr D complained. Lowell apologised once more, confirmed again that it had just been a 
system error, and confirmed again that all 6 accounts had been closed and Mr D would not 
be pursued any further. They offered him £20 compensation.
Mr D came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and found that 
Lowells offer was fair. Mr D asked for an ombudsman to look at the case afresh, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand how it might have been distressing to think that one of the accounts was not 
being closed when it was supposed to be.
So Im glad to see that when Mr D called, Lowell apologised, explained things, confirmed all 
the accounts would be closed, and sent a further email confirmation. I find they handled the 
matter well. I did not find anything unreasonable in the way they spoke to Mr D.
Mr D recalled that Lowell told him if he hadnt phoned, then the last account wouldve never 
closed. Ive listened to the call involved. Mr D asked the staff member if the account 
wouldve closed or remained open if he hadnt called. The staff member said they werent 
100% sure but theyd get it sorted for him now. They did not say the account wouldve never 
closed. And I can see from Lowells internal system that they did indeed put that account 
through for closure on the same day as the others. It just took a little longer to close because 
it had been with another company. So I hope I can reassure Mr D that Lowell stayed true to 
what they told him and did not try to keep that account open.
Ultimately, while I understand where Mr D is coming from, this was a simple administrative 
error which was sorted out quickly following a short phone call. Lowell did not attempt to 
pursue Mr D for the account, and I cant see that he was sent any chasers for money after 
they agreed to close it.
Of course, as I noted above, I do agree that Lowell initially made an error in leaving the 
account off their letter, and that it caused Mr D some degree of distress. When it comes to 
putting things right, I understand that Mr D would like an apology from Lowell. The problem 
is that if I were to tell Lowell to apologise, their apology would seem forced rather than 
genuine  theyd be saying sorry because I told them to. Further, I can see that Lowell have 
already apologised more than once, and that clearly has not repaired their relationship with 
Mr D. So I dont think another apology is likely to help. Similarly, I note Mr D wants us to tell 
Lowell to thank him for raising the issue, but that would also seem forced, and is ultimately 
unnecessary.
Instead, we often tell businesses to pay compensation, to recognise what they got wrong 
and the impact it had. In terms of the amounts, its worth bearing in mind that were here to 
resolve complaints informally, and not to punish businesses. Were also not a regulator and 
dont issue fines. And as I found above, this was a simple error which was resolved quickly, 
took minimal effort to sort out, and didnt cause any material losses other than the initial 
distress and the need to make a phone call. I also note that Lowell wrote off quite a bit of 
debt for Mr D when they didnt strictly have to. I find that Lowells offer of £20 compensation 
is more than fair to put things right here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Lowell Financial Ltd have already made a fair offer to 
resolve this complaint. I dont make any further award. Lowell Financial Ltd should pay Mr D 
the compensation offered, if they havent done so already.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman