DRN-3493548
The complaint
C, an organisation, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt switch its bank account to 
another financial business before it was closed.
What happened
C says that it opened an account with a different financial business. And that it completed 
forms to switch its account from HSBC. This was declined and it raised a complaint. Before it 
had a response it found that the account had been closed. When it did get a response, 
HSBC said that it had no record of any switch request.
HSBC clarified its response when the complaint was referred to this service. It said that the 
switch hadnt been made because the request didnt match the information about C that it 
had. HSBC said that its complaint handler ought to have had that information and due to its 
lack of investigation now offered to pay C £75.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it do anything more. Now that the account was 
closed HSBC had said it couldnt divert any credits attempted to Cs new account. Cs 
account had been closed because it hadnt responded to requests for information from 
HSBC as part of a safeguard review to help ensure it knew its customers. So, it couldnt be 
reinstated and switched as C now wanted.
C didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The request to switch the account 
had nothing to do with the safeguarding exercise. It wanted the account to be switched 
before it was closed. This hadnt happened and meant additional work in telling the parties 
which sent it money about the new account details. Had it switched the account then 
payments would have been forwarded for a period and the history of its account preserved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that C had completed switching requests but unfortunately these were rejected. It 
complained about these on 4 November 2021. On 8 November 2021 HSBC separately wrote 
to C and said that as it hadnt provided the information required as part of the safeguarding 
review the account would be closed in February 2022. When the account was closed C 
made a further complaint and was sent a final response on 7 February 2022.
Unfortunately, HSBC was unable to process the switch as it couldnt match information for C. 
I dont have a basis on the evidence provided to find that this was an error. C chose not to 
respond to the safeguard request intending to operate its new account at a different financial 
business. So, I dont find the closure of its account at HSBC in line with what it told C would 
happen to be in error either. 
The error here was in the final response from HSBC which didnt refer to the past switching 
requests. As a result of the inconvenience caused HSBC has now offered to pay C £75. I 
know that C wants to be compensated for having to deal with the administration of changing 
the account details and giving that information to those parties that send it payments. But Im 
afraid that I dont consider HSBC to be responsible for that. I cant as it wants reasonably 
require HSBC to reinstate an account that had been closed anyway and then switch it. And 
HSBCs not able to divert any attempted payments to the account now.
So, I know that the officers of C will be disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring 
HSBC to do more than its now offered to.
My final decision
HSBC has made an offer to settle this complaint which I think is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay C £75 as it has now offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman