DRN-3806693
The complaint
Miss B complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited provided her with an unaffordable guarantor loan.
What happened
In March 2017 1Plus1 Loans approved Miss B with a £3,000 guarantor loan. The loan had a 
term of 60 months with instalments of around £108 a month. The total repayable value of the 
loan was around £6,450.
Miss B complained to 1Plus1 Loans saying it had irresponsibly provided her with the loan; as 
had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would have identified it was 
unaffordable for her. 1Plus1 Loans issued its final response in May 2022 not upholding the 
complaint; so, Miss B asked our service to consider it.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it. He said the checks 1Plus1 Loans 
completed ought reasonably to have led to it concluding that providing Miss B with the loan 
would be unsustainable or otherwise harmful to her.  
1Plus1 Loans didnt agree. In summary it said this loan was to consolidate debts and that 
Miss B would be in a better financial position each month. It also said it was comfortable with 
the debt-to-income and monthly payment to income ratios applicable to this lending. 
Our investigator reviewed 1Plus1 Loans response and issued a second opinion, setting out 
why his outcome didnt change. 
1Plus1 Loans didnt respond to our investigators second upheld assessment, or his chasers 
for a response, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ive explained why below.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, there are a number of overarching questions I 
need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Miss Bs complaint. These are:
1. Did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss B to satisfy 
itself she was in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Miss B would have been able to do so?
2. Did 1Plus1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss B to satisfy itself 
she was in a position to afford to repay the loan sustainably? 
1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Miss B. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time 1Plus1 
Loans lent required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks 
needed to assess Miss Bs ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, 
without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for 1Plus1 Loans to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Ive taken all of this into account when thinking about this loan.
1Plus1 Loans has said Miss B declared her income as around £1,700 per month which it 
confirmed via an online verification tool; and her expenses as around £500 per month. 
Miss B told 1Plus1 Loans that her partner paid most of the rent and household bills which is 
why the figure appeared lower than may reasonably have been expected, and it appears 
1Plus1 Loans accepted this. It also completed a credit file check and identified Miss B had 
monthly credit commitments of around £600, and Miss B declared she was paying around 
£200 per month towards two CCJs. 1Plus1 Loans added in a buffer of £200 per month for 
any unexpected costs and concluded Miss B would be left with around £200 per month 
before taking into account the payment of around £108 towards this loan. 1Plus1 Loans 
therefore calculated Miss B would be left with around £100 disposable income per month 
after all deductions were taken into account.
1Plus1 Loans says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks which showed this 
loan was sustainably affordable to Miss B and it therefore made a fair decision to lend.
Ive carefully considered 1Plus1 Loans argument, but Im not persuaded it did complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. 
I say this because the credit file check 1Plus1 Loans obtained suggested that Miss B was 
showing signs that she wasnt managing her finances well.
There were three defaults dating from 2012 and 2013, with the latest of these three having 
been registered around five years before this loan. I dont consider, given the length of time 
since these defaults, that they ought reasonably to have been of concern to 1Plus1 Loans on 
their own. But Miss B had taken out two other large guarantor loans within 12 months of this 
application with a total outstanding balance of around £22,500; and it also identified that 
Miss B had defaulted on a credit card account four months prior to this application. 
During the application call Miss B made 1Plus1 Loans aware that she had two CCJs, which 
although historic, were still active and which she was making monthly payments towards, although she said she would be clearing these with this loan. During this call Miss B also 
disclosed the two guarantor loans showing on the credit file were taken at least in part to 
benefit family members, who were contributing towards their monthly repayments. Miss B 
also told 1Plus1 Loans that one of the family members was currently out of work which 
meant they hadnt been able to contribute towards repayment of one of the existing 
guarantor loans.
Miss B said she intended to use part of the loan with 1Plus1 Loans to consolidate both of the 
existing guarantor loans to reduce her monthly payments; suggesting she wasnt in a 
position to maintain the loans at their current level without the financial support she had been 
receiving from her family. 
In addition to this Miss B had told 1Plus1 Loans that she had two dependants; so, it was 
aware there was the potential for further unexpected costs to crop up on a monthly basis that 
Miss B would need to cover. 
The recently defaulted credit card suggests Miss Bs finances were tight as she wasnt able 
to maintain at least the minimum payment to stop the credit card account from defaulting. 
I consider the documentary evidence 1Plus1 Loans obtained painted a different picture to 
that of the affordability assessment it completed which showed a reasonable level of 
disposable income each month, even after adding in a £200 buffer for unexpected expenses, 
and I think 1Plus1 Loans needed to explore this further.
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied 1Plus1 Loans didnt completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks in this instance. I consider reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have led 1Plus1 Loans to obtain a thorough understanding of Miss Bs financial 
position, by verifying her expenditure in addition to the income verification it completed to 
ensure repayment of this loan would be sustainably affordable for her over the full term.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown Miss B would have been able to 
sustainably afford repayments to the loan?
Miss B hasnt provided our service with evidence in order for me to determine what 
reasonable and reasonable checks would likely have shown 1Plus1 Loans. So, Im unable to 
conclude this loan was unaffordable for her on a strictly pounds and pence basis. However, I 
think there are other reasons 1Plus1 Loans didnt make a fair lending decision when 
approving this loan; and Ive gone on to explain why below.
At the point of this application Miss Bs total indebtedness stood at around £24,000, based 
on the credit file check 1Plus1 Loans obtained and Mis Bs declarations; which was around 
the same level as her yearly income. 1Plus1 Loans knew part of Miss Bs income was partly 
made up of benefits, and therefore that this reasonably significant proportion of her income 
was unlikely to considerably increase during the term of the loan.
Miss B had taken out two sizeable guarantor loans within the 12 months leading up to this 
lending, one of which she declared was in part to support a family member, but both of which 
she declared she was receiving financial support from family members with the monthly 
repayments. 1Plus1 Loans appears to have accepted Miss Bs explanation about the way 
repayments were being made without further questioning; and I dont think it ought to have 
so easily accepted Miss Bs explanation here. 
I say this because the two existing guarantor loans were in Miss Bs name, and therefore 
she was responsible for the full repayments to each month. Miss B indicated she was 
receiving financial support from family members in repaying these loans; and had told 
1Plus1 Loans that one family member was now out of work and unable to contribute towards the repayments. With this knowledge and given that Miss B hadnt been able to maintain at 
least minimum payments to stop her credit card recently defaulting, I consider this ought to 
have put 1Plus1 Loans on notice that Miss B was already finding her commitments 
unsustainable.  
1Plus1 Loans has argued that Miss B was using this loan to consolidate debts and therefore 
would have been in a better financial position each month. While Miss B had said she 
intended to use the loan to consolidate existing debts, I question how successful this would 
be or indeed how beneficial this really was for Miss B. 
The loan with 1Plus1 Loans was for £3,000; so, would only be used to consolidate a 
relatively small amount of her existing debts. Based on Miss Bs declarations during the call 
there would be a minimal amount left to pay towards the existing guarantor loans, after 
taking into account the consolidation of the defaulted accounts and outstanding CCJs, 
suggesting this wouldnt have had as meaningful an impact as she had suggested in terms 
of reducing the monthly payments to the existing guarantor loans. And by using a large 
proportion of this loan to clear defaulted accounts and CCJs, she was using a high-cost loan 
to consolidate debts that would have attracted significantly lower rates of interest, if any 
interest at all. 
I think the evidence 1Plus1 Loans obtained painted a clear picture that Miss B was already 
showing signs of financial distress at the point of this application. Miss B had been unable to 
maintain minimum payments on her credit card  which had then defaulted within months of 
the other guarantor loans being approved  and within four months of this application being 
made. This strongly suggests Miss Bs level of debt was already at a point that was 
unsustainable for her to service and further borrowing would only worsen her already bad 
financial situation. 
So, taking account of all the above information, I think 1Plus1 Loans had enough information 
from the evidence it obtained that Miss B wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to, as further 
borrowing would be unsustainable or otherwise harmful to her. And it therefore follows Im 
satisfied 1Plus1 Loans didnt make a fair lending decision when providing Miss B this loan. 
Did 1Plus1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen any other information which suggests 1Plus1 Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in any other way in relation to Miss Bs complaint.
Putting things right
As Miss Bs had the benefit of the lending, I think its fair and reasonable that she repays the 
principal amount borrowed. But Miss B has paid interest and charges on a loan that has now 
been repaid but that shouldnt have been provided to her. So, I think Miss B has lost out and 
1Plus1 Loans Limited should put things right by taking the following action:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Miss B should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Miss B has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, 
then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her.
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Miss B, to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file as a result of this 
loan. *HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans Limited to deduct tax from this interest. 
1Plus1 Loans Limited should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that Im upholding Miss Bs complaint 
about 1Plus1 Loans Limited and direct it to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman