DRN-2313051
The complaint
Mr P complains Starling Bank Limited didnt reverse two payments it should have, which 
sent him into an unauthorised overdraft.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr P was on a cruise and made several transactions using his Starling bank 
card. Two of the transactions hadnt been applied to his card yet, the merchant had put a 
pre-authorisation hold on the account, so they appeared as pending transactions. These two 
transactions totalled around £550. Mr P settled these two outstanding amounts with the 
merchant using another card. 
He later contacted Starling as the two amounts were still showing as pending transactions 
on his banking app. He asked for them to be voided as hed already settled them. Starling 
said it would void the transactions, but it didnt actually do so until a few weeks later due to 
an error.  
Mr P complained to Starling, he said even though it had told him it would void the 
transactions, the money still left his account on 19 November 2019. As a result, hed 
received an alert to say his account was in an unauthorised overdraft.
Starling said it had voided the transactions, but it agreed it should have done so earlier. It 
said the pending transactions had shown on Mr Ps account for longer than they should 
have. So it agreed to pay Mr P £35 compensation for the distress it had caused and for its 
service falling below what it expects. But it didnt agree the money had been taken out of his 
account by the merchant on 19 November. So it didnt refund the £550 to Mr P. Unhappy 
with its response Mr P brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ps statements for the relevant period, she couldnt see that 
the amounts Mr P had referred to appeared on them. So she was satisfied Starling Bank 
hadnt allowed the payment to be taken, and it didnt owe Mr P the money.
Mr P didnt agree, he said the alert he received showed the money had been taken and his 
statements didnt show what had actually happened. As Mr P didnt agree, the matter has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Starling need to do anymore to put things right. Ive explained 
why below.
Mr P has sent a screenshot of the alert he received on 19 November. This says his account 
is in an unauthorised overdraft and he should clear funds to avoid any charges. But it doesnt 
say what amounts have left his account or how much he needed to transfer to clear the 
overdraft. 
Ive looked at Mr Ps statements from November 2019. On 19 November, the day he 
received the alert, his statements show he made two transactions totalling around £1,400. 
These payments made the account overdrawn by around £250. The following day, the 
statements show Mr P credited his account with £550, so the account was no longer 
overdrawn. From what I can see, I think Mr P assumed that the two payments (totalling 
£550) that had been voided by the bank, had in fact left his account. Which is why he 
transferred that amount of money in. But from everything Ive seen, it wasnt those two 
voided payments leaving the account that made it overdrawn. It was different payments 
totalling different amounts.
I can see there were a lot of transactions over a short period of time. Starling made things 
confusing for Mr P by agreeing to void the transactions, but not actually doing so due to the 
issue being raised by the wrong department.
It also seems that on 19 November, the same day he received the overdraft alert, he also 
received notice from Starling that the merchant had reversed its two pending payments. 
Starling has said it had already voided them by this point so this alert shouldnt have been 
received. But I can see why it would cause Mr P confusion. But when Mr P contacted 
Starling, I think it tried to explain things and provide an explanation to Mr P. So I think that, 
and its offer of £35 is enough for the mistake that Starling made in delaying voiding the 
payments and the confusion it caused.
Mr P thinks the reversal alerts show that Starling had allowed the payment to be taken, even 
though its not showing on his statement. But I dont think thats what his alert shows. Having 
looked at everything, I cant see that Starling has allowed an extra £550 to be paid to the 
merchant. 
I appreciate Mr Ps banking app shows data that his statements dont, such as pending 
transactions and available balances. But I havent seen anything in his statements which 
persuades me Starling has allowed extra payments to be taken. And whilst Mr P doesnt 
think the statements are an accurate reflection of what happened, the screenshots hes sent 
me dont persuade me that an extra £550 was paid to the merchant. All the screenshots 
show is an alert that his account was overdrawn, and an alert saying the merchant had 
reversed the payments. So on balance, taking everything into account, I dont think it needs 
to do anything more to put things right.
Mr P has since raised that his card was retained at an ATM and a payment for £17 was 
declined, around the time these payments left his account. I cant see this was raised with 
Starling as part of his original complaint, so I havent considered it here. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that Im not going to ask Starling Bank Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman