DRN-3576671
The complaint
Mr M complains that an appointed representative of TenetLime Ltd (Tenet) failed to 
accurately record medical disclosures he made when applying for two protection policies 
with a third party insurer. As a result, the policies were set up incorrectly. 
To resolve his complaint, he wants Tenet to obtain policies from a specialist broker with 
cover on the same basis as the policies he had, with Tenet to pay the difference in the cost. 
He also seeks compensation for his lost time, emotional distress, and a possible critical 
illness claim he may currently have paid out, but for his policy being wrongly instituted. 
Finally, Mr M believes Tenet ought to have its regulatory activities suspended until an 
investigation about potentially void policies has been undertaken.   
What happened
Mr M made an online query about taking out term assurance policies, for both life and critical 
illness cover. This was because he was considering mortgage lending in the near future. He 
was contacted by an adviser from Protect Line Ltd who explained that it could assist Mr M on 
a non-advised basis. Tenet takes responsibility for the actions of Protect Line. 
During a call on 15 February 2021, Mr M queried his eligibility for insurance because he 
suffered from of a type of immune system disorder, a type of connective tissue disorder and 
a type of mental health condition. The adviser assured Mr M this would not be an issue and 
transferred him to a colleague to provide quotes. These were then emailed to Mr M.  
On 18 February 2021, a different adviser called Mr M to discuss the prospective cover. 
During this call Mr M reiterated his health circumstances, clarifying the length of time he had 
suffered from each disorder. The adviser told Mr M that before any applications were made 
he wanted to check the quotes with a manager. This was to ascertain the prospect of likely 
acceptance for insurance for someone with Mr Ms medical circumstances.  
On 25 February 2021, Mr M spoke with a third adviser who obtained quotes for the two 
policies. One offered £200,000 of life cover for a 53-year term and the other £200,000 of 
critical illness and life cover for a 43-year term. In that call, Mr M disclosed two conditions in 
relation to questions he was asked on the insurers application(s). In relation to the immune 
system disorder, no relevant question was asked, but the adviser told Mr M he would have to 
submit that condition separately to the insurer on his behalf, for underwriting consideration.  
On 1 March 2021, Mr M was called by another adviser from Protect Line who confirmed that 
the policies had been accepted without the need for a GP report at the sum assured and 
terms requested. The policies had premiums of £20.89 and £74.52 respectively. 
On 10 March 2021, Mr M contacted Protect Line as he had discovered on receipt of the 
insurers paperwork that only one of the three medical issues he told it about had been 
confirmed in the applications; his two disorders had not been disclosed as promised. The 
adviser said that the insurer would have been made aware, but Mr M asked for evidence that 
he was covered on that basis because this conflicted with the insurers documentation.  
The policies went on risk on 15 March 2021. Mr M sent further emails chasing Protect Line 
on 22 March, 20 April and 29 April 2021  in the latter he also included a subject access 
request and that email was also taken as his grounds of complaint.  
On 30 April 2021, Protect Lines complaint handler had received confirmation from the 
insurer (as Mr M had suggested) that the two missing medical conditions had not been 
detailed within or after the policy application(s). It had therefore liaised with Mr M and the 
insurer to arrange disclosure of the conditions retrospectively. A GP report was requested on 
11 May 2021 but this was subject to Mr Ms approval. 
On 23 June 2021, Tenet issued a response to the complaint. It set out a summary of the 
complaint history and noted that at the time of writing to Mr M, the insurer was waiting for 
him to return his consent for access to his medical records for the purposes of the 
retrospective underwriting which would expire 90 days after 11 May 2021.  
It also said that as Protect Line did not notify the insurer of the medical conditions Mr M 
disclosed during the application or deal with the matter in a timely manner, his complaint 
against Protect Line Ltd had been upheld. 
In order to resolve the complaint, Tenet offered to return Mr Ms premiums from March to 
May 2021 along with simple interest and a payment of £50 to reflect the upset he had been 
caused. This totalled £338.61.  
Mr M said he remained unhappy and so Tenet undertook a senior management review of 
the complaint. It agreed to increase Mr Ms compensation to £500 from £50 and asked him 
to sign settlement terms. It appears that Mr M did not do so. 
As an aside it also told Mr M that the insurer stated that it had not yet received Mr Ms 
Access to Medical Reports (AMRA) form to request a GP report, which was first issued on 
11 May 2021. Tenet said the insurer could not continue its investigations without it; should it 
not be provided by Mr M the policy would be cancelled within 90 days as previously advised.
In July 2021, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He said he worked in the legal 
profession and he understood the implications of non-disclosure for insurance policies. It 
was for this reason that he took great lengths to ensure Protect Line recorded and 
acknowledged his medical conditions. He also said he was surprised when the first adviser 
said he would be able to be insured without any particular issues. 
He also said that both Protect Line and Tenet had ignored him, lied to him, misled him and 
taken no proper steps to put the matter right. He explained that it was reprehensible of the 
first adviser to tell him he would be insured  if he had relied on this, he could have paid for 
cover for years, which may well have been cancelled at the time of any claim by himself or 
his family.  
Mr M explained that he now suffers with long-COVID as a consequence of a severe reaction 
to a vaccination in April 2021. Protect Line/Tenets actions meant that he could not make any 
critical illness claim about that. Nor could he consider claims for degenerative conditions 
should he have had children in the future, and this situation has affected that choice. Mr M 
explained how his upset at losing his insurance cover could not be underestimated  he 
used to have protection through a previous employer and had cancelled it in favour of the 
policies arranged by Protect Line.  
Mr M said he had also complained to the insurer and received a written response. The 
complaint about the insurer was therefore also set up, and dealt with separately. Mr M explained that the insurer had cancelled his policies and now he was in a position 
where he had no appropriate term assurance cover. He also said that having undertaken a 
subject access request with the insurer, it was quite apparent to him that both parties put the 
business of securing an insurance referral ahead of his interests as the policyholder.  
He said Tenet had told the insurer it could not speak to him and the insurer hadnt told him 
what Tenet had said and he feels that both parties kept everything hushed up. 
Mr M reiterated that he felt Tenet ought to be liable for the additional cost of insuring him, 
which may be anywhere from £400 to £900 per month more than had been suggested 
previously.  
An investigator from this service considered the complaint. She did not think Tenet needed 
to take further steps. She agreed it had mistakenly failed to record Mr Ms medical 
information when submitting his application to the insurer. But she felt its offer to put matters 
right was fair in the circumstances and Tenet should not be required to do anything more.  
Mr M said he disagreed and wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He said 
this was because:
the proposed level of compensation did not reflect the level of culpability of Tenet nor 
the loss he has suffered;
it also did not encourage Tenet to change its practices, systems or behaviour;
he is disabled and Tenet ought to have made reasonable adjustments for him;
Tenet owed a duty of care to customers especially those in vulnerable positions;
£500 did not begin to represent the 50 hours of time he spent applying for the policy, 
investigating and following up on the complaint;
if proper compensation is not awarded for this type of behaviour then Tenet may 
continue to mis-sell policies, collect commission and ignore complaints;
he also remains of the view that Tenet has colluded with the insurer;
Tenet did not properly respond to his subject access request;
he still believes that it did provide the medical information to the insurer and the 
difference in documentation without proper subject access evidence supports that 
collusion took place. 
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view on the complaint. She remained 
persuaded that Tenets offer to resolve the matter was reasonable. She did not believe that 
collusion had taken place and noted that Tenet accepted full responsibility for the failure to 
disclosure Mr Ms full medical circumstances.  
Mr M reiterated that he wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint because he believed 
£500 was an inappropriate offer of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr M feels about the complaint and the separate complaint about 
the insurer. However, my view is that it cannot succeed. That is because I believe Tenet has 
correctly upheld the complaint and offered reasonable compensation to Mr M. Consequently 
Tenet shouldnt be required to do anything more than it has already offered. Ill explain my reasons for reaching this conclusion below.  
I also cannot provide findings on any suggestion of systematic failings by advisers at Protect 
Line Ltd. That is because we are not a regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct 
Authority and Mr M is free to contact the FCA if he requires. We are an informal dispute 
resolution service and my role is to reach a fair outcome based on the evidence before me. 
Similarly, if Mr M has outstanding concerns about subject access and data protection, that is 
a matter for the Information Commissioners Office.     
It is important for me to set out that this complaint rests against Tenet as the broker which 
facilitated Mr Ms insurance applications. It is separate and independent from the insurer of 
the policies. Mr M has pursued a distinct complaint about the insurer so I will not be making 
findings about the insurers actions here. However, the background to the complaints and 
some of the content will be similar as they arise from the same set of adjoined 
circumstances.  
I do not accept the suggestion that there has been collusion or complicity between Tenet 
and the insurer. I realise Mr Ms opinion differs on that, but I have seen no clear evidence 
which suggests that the two businesses would have arranged to cover Mr M without correct 
medical disclosure. The insurer sent Mr M a copy of his application answers as a means of 
checking to ensure accurate disclosures. That system would negate any grounds for a cover 
up on the basis Mr M has suggested, since the applicant could review the answers for 
accuracy, just as Mr M did.
That was also followed up by correspondence sent to Mr M by Protect Line, which said:
Check your details
As requested please find the quotation(s) for your life insurance policy. With no 
advice offered by ourselves and from the options we have provided for you, you have 
chosen to apply for a policy fitting your criteria with [insurer]. Further details can be 
seen on the quotation attached to this letter. Please note that it is your responsibility 
to ensure that the policy you have applied for is suitable to your needs.
During the application you answered the health and lifestyle questions in order for us 
to submit this information to the insurance company. Failure to have answered these 
questions correctly or missing out any related information may result in any claims 
being affected or not paid. You will shortly receive a copy of the application from the 
insurance company, please check through this carefully. If any details are incorrect or 
require additional information, please amend and initial prior to returning that form to 
the insurer, which must be returned as soon as possible.
This step is in place as a failsafe  because as Mr M is aware, insurers have the ability to 
assess whether misrepresentations on insurance policies occurred from the outset in 
accordance with relevant insurance law on consumer disclosures and representations. In 
this case, the insurer was pointed to errors in the application once Mr M checked his 
policies. So, the policies were only in force a matter of months before they were then 
correctly underwritten  which led to the insurer withdrawing terms.  
It is manifestly clear that the advisers from Protect Line (for which Tenet takes responsibility) 
made errors which meant that the insurer was not informed of Mr Ms correct health 
circumstances. This is accepted and agreed by both parties. Protect Line did not convey the 
complete medical information Mr M had told it to the insurer when it should have done so.   What remains in dispute is the correct redress for the mistakes which prevented disclosure 
of the two medical conditions. I disagree with Mr Ms assessment of how matters should be 
put right. Notwithstanding the upset Mr M has been placed under, the correct response to 
mistakes on the part of a business is to put a consumer in the position they would have been 
in, but for the mistake(s).  
Following that through, Protect Lines advisers should have passed on the correct 
information about Mr Ms two disorders to the insurer. It would have then sought the GP 
report with Mr Ms consent and refused the applications. Sadly, Mr M would not be able to 
obtain insurance with the specified company, even if Protect Line had done everything as it 
should have. So, I cannot order it to set up policies that would never have existed. Nor do I 
accept or agree it is liable to make up premiums for a policy it never quoted for or 
compensate Mr M on that basis. 
Protect Line did not advise Mr M, it acted as an intermediary and a representative. Its 
relationship with Mr M was one of sourcing and assisting in the administration of arranging 
protection policies. I have not seen evidence it told Mr M to cancel other cover in favour of 
prospective policies and nor should it have done. Similarly, it is not liable for Mr Ms loss of 
the ability to make a claim (if he suffered from a listed critical illness on the insurance terms) 
because no policy would or should have begun with the insurer  and that was known before 
any circumstances pertaining to a claim arose.
Matters could (theoretically) have been different if Mr M had lost the opportunity to make a 
valid claim, because that may have been a consequential loss flowing from Protect Lines 
mistakes for which Tenet would be liable. Be that as it may, the argument is hypothetical, 
because it did not happen. The matter Mr M complains of relating to vaccination took place 
the month after he noticed the inaccuracies on the insurers documentation. And, long-
COVID is not a listed critical illness in the policy wording in any event. 
Putting things right
The compensation which applies here is consideration of the upset and distress Mr M has 
been caused in believing he could be insured, and then for realising the insurance was not 
instituted correctly because the insurer did not have the accurate position of his linked 
disabilities. I can see how concerned and distressed Mr M has been about that. 
Our awards are not punitive; we do not award compensation to discipline businesses. 
Instead, we make limited compensatory awards which account for the impact of any upset 
caused. Mr M can review our website for guidance around awards if he requires. Tenet has 
already suggested an award in the range of what would be considered reasonable if I had 
made that direction myself in circumstances where a matter has caused Mr M considerable 
trouble, disappointment and taken some months to resolve. I therefore do not believe it 
should do anything more besides sending the payment to Mr M if it remains outstanding.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, insofar as I agree that the appointed representative business acting 
for TenetLime Ltd failed to properly complete policy applications for Mr M to his chosen 
insurer. This caused Mr M upset, distress and inconvenience when those applications were 
wrongly accepted and later withdrawn.  
If TenetLime Ltd has paid Mr M the redress already offered in its letter of 30 June 2021, then 
no further redress is due. If it has not, then it must pay that redress if Mr M accepts my 
decision  without the requirement of a settlement agreement. From the original calculation, Tenet is entitled to deduct the previously calculated premiums (to June 2021) since these 
have now been returned to Mr M by the insurer, though I leave that open for Tenet to 
determine and I do not make a direction on that basis.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman