DRN-4218923
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) failed to sell her an 
appropriate product when she called to take out cover for her boiler and heating system. 
Mrs J is represented in her complaint by Mr J.
What happened
On 4 January 2023, Mrs J phoned British Gas to request HomeCare cover for a property that 
she was renting out. In particular she requested HomeCare essentials. She clarified that 
she wanted a boiler service, and cover for the boiler and controls and full central heating 
system. The agent advised her that the product she described was called HomeCare Two. 
During the call Mrs J confirmed the boiler was in working order.
On 17 February 2023, British Gas sent an engineer to the property to carry out a first visit. 
During that visit, pre-existing faults were identified and British Gas sent Mrs J a quote to get 
the boiler fixed, which she agreed to pay. The boiler was repaired by 28 February 2023 
when it was confirmed to be in full working order. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with the service provided by British Gas and complained about having to 
accommodate multiple appointments while new parts were fitted. British Gas apologised and 
offered £45 compensation for the inconvenience, which Mrs J accepted. However, Mrs J 
remained unhappy with the way her complaint had been resolved so referred it to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued her view on 23 June 2023 not 
upholding the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and I wont be 
upholding this complaint. I will explain why. 
Mrs J has complained that British Gas didnt sell her the most appropriate product for her 
needs. So, Ive considered whether the HomeCare Two cover was mis-sold and whether 
British Gas have done anything wrong in relation to this part of her complaint.
As British Gas carried out an information-only sale, not an advised sale, they needed to 
provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading to enable Mrs J to make up her 
own mind about whether or not she wanted to take out the cover. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that clear information wasnt provided to Mrs J. Rather, her complaint is that she 
wasnt sold the right product. But, as British Gas wasnt giving Mrs J advice about what 
product to purchase, this wasnt their responsibility. If Mrs J felt that there was another 
product that might be better suited for her needs, then it was up to her to consider the 
products that were available on the market. In fact, in referring her complaint to this service, 
Mr J appears to have done this as he assessed the other products offered by British Gas 
and identified one that he thought would have been more appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mr J has also said that British Gas didnt ask his wife when the boiler was last serviced, 
which he believes they ought to have done. But I note British Gas did ask if the boiler was in 
working condition, which I think was a reasonable question to ask in the circumstances. If 
Mrs J hadnt had the boiler serviced for a period of time, then that question would have 
provided her with an opportunity to share that information with British Gas.
Mrs J has also expressed frustration that British Gas didnt send an engineer to the property 
for five weeks after shed taken out the policy, during which time she says the condition of 
the boiler may have deteriorated. Shes also unhappy about British Gas having to attend the 
property on more than one occasion to carry out repairs to the boiler.
Ive considered Mrs Js concerns here and would first note that the boiler was approximately 
17 years old when she took out the policy. I dont think it likely the condition of the boiler 
would have significantly deteriorated during that short time. In any event, I can only ask 
British Gas to pay compensation for inconvenience due to delays that they are responsible 
for. In this case I can see that although British Gas asked to set up the first visit on the sales 
call, Mrs J said that the tenant would need to arrange it for a time that was convenient for 
her. So, Im not satisfied British Gas took too long to first visit the property. 
I can also see from the job sheet that British Gas engineers did have to attend the property 
on a number of occasions within a ten-day period, but I havent seen anything to suggest 
that this was unnecessary, or that any avoidable delays occurred in repairing the boiler and 
heating system during that time. 
As I dont think British Gas have done anything wrong here, I wont be asking them to refund 
any costs to Mrs J.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman