DRN-3592341
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by AJH Financial Services Ltd (AJH) to transfer the 
benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. The 
BSPS is a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him.
Mr J is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely refer 
to representations as being made by Mr J.
What happened
Mr J was a deferred member of the BSPS having accrued benefits while working for a 
former employer between 1991 and 2001. In March 2016, Mr Js former employer 
announced that it would be examining options to restructure its business, including 
decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, 
members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr Js former employer provided him with a summary of the transfer value of his scheme 
benefits in October 2017. This said his benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of £170,349.27.
Mr J then contacted AJH for advice. AJH says Mr J was concerned about what the 
announcement by his former employer meant for the security of his preserved benefits in the 
BSPS. 
In November 2017, AJH completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js 
circumstances and objectives. It noted that he was 43, single, in good health and employed 
full time. He was contributing to a pension scheme with his current employer  paying in 5% 
of his salary with his employer paying 7%, meaning monthly contributions were 
approximately £320. He noted he intended to continue working for his current employer until 
he chose to retire. Mr J owned his own home, with an outstanding mortgage of just under 
£54,000 and a remaining term of 18 years. He had some other outstanding liabilities  a car 
loan and credit card debt  totalling £30,000. But it wasnt suggested that he was in arrears 
and his income was recorded as being sufficient to meet his outgoings. The loan had a 
remaining term of under three years. Based on the listed repayments the credit cards were 
on course to be repaid within a few years as well. And the mortgage was scheduled to be 
repaid by age 61.
AJH recorded that Mr J said he was considering transferring his pension because he didnt 
intend to work beyond 60 and may retire even earlier if he could. He wasnt prepared to 
accept an actuarial reduction in his pension  which would be the case with BSPS2. He was 
likely to want to take tax-free cash (TFC) at retirement but didnt have a specific plan for the 
money. And Mr J was unhappy with the idea of transferring to the PPF as hed lose 10% of 
his pension. While Mr J did not have any dependents AJH says he didnt like the idea of the 
pension fund dying with him and wanted the option of leaving this to a family member. And it 
was noted that he had a limited timeframe in which to make a decision about transferring. It 
says Mr J indicated he likely needed an income of £12,000 per annum. And it was felt that 
the growth required of a personal pension to provide this was achievable.
AJH also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk. It says the answers he initially 
provided indicated he had a high medium attitude to risk (ATR), or a six on a scale of one 
to ten. But after further discussions it was agreed he should be categorised as having a 
lowest medium ATR  four on the same scale.
A further meeting took place in December 2017. I understand that AJH verbally advised Mr J 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension at that point. As Mr J needed to inform 
the BSPS trustees of his decision by early January, AJH says it was agreed that an 
application would be submitted on the basis of this discussion. A written summary of the 
recommendation would then follow. 
On 29 January 2018, AJH sent Mr J a written summary of its advice  by which time an 
application had been submitted. This said Mr J had been clear he had little faith in his former 
employer and was sceptical about whether BSPS2 would go ahead. It also said Mr J had 
indicated he felt the growth rates to be used in BSPS2 were low. So, he did not want to enter 
BSPS2 or the PPF and wanted to transfer his pension. The report also reiterated several 
times that there were penalties involved in retiring early under the DB scheme. 
The report said AJH estimated, at age 60 under BSPS2, Mr J could take a full pension of 
£7,107 per year or TFC of £33,598 and a reduced pension of £5,017 per year. Mr Js three 
main priorities were to increase his pension, the ability to retire early and being able to take 
TFC at retirement. And as he indicated hed need £12,000 in retirement per year AJH felt he 
couldnt meet his goals  particularly retiring at age 60  via BSPS2 or the PPF. 
AJH said that the critical yield  the growth rate required of a new pension to allow Mr J to 
purchase equivalent benefits that would match the guaranteed benefits of BSPS2 (as 
remaining in BSPS in its current form wasnt an option)  was 4.7% (based on Mr J retiring 
at age 60 and taking a full pension) or 3.7% (if he retired at 60 and took TFC and a reduced 
pension). AJH told Mr J it felt this was achievable if the new pension plan was monitored 
regularly so, in summary, it said Taking into consideration all factors, in particular your 
objectives and concerns over BSPS and your insistence to transfer your benefits from your 
existing Pension Scheme, I can support your decision if you elect to transfer the benefits 
away from the Pension Scheme. And it added that further advantages of transferring were 
that the fund would not die with Mr J, he had flexibility and no restrictions on how he could 
take his benefits and access to a wide range of investment funds.
Mr J complained to AJH in late 2020 about the suitability of the transfer advice.
AJH didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said Mr J approached it and had obtained a CETV 
before doing so, so AJH felt Mr J had already decided that transferring was appropriate. It 
noted that he said he intended to retire at 60, or sooner if he could, and was unhappy there 
would potentially being no legacy when he died. AJH again said Mr J had indicated he was 
unwilling to accept a reduction in his pension  actuarial or through transfer to the PPF. So it 
felt that the advice to transfer was suitable as it provided the flexibility he needed, allowed 
him to leave the fund to beneficiaries, gave him control of his pension  which was important 
as he had lost faith in the BSPS  and the growth, which would allow the pension to provide 
the income Mr J thought he needed, was achievable.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. He said all of his meetings with AJH had been 
relatively short and rushed. He says the adviser, not him, dismissed the idea of entering the 
PPF and he said that they were the ones whod indicated they didnt believe the BSPS2 would work or was viable. He said concerns about the BSPS were based on rumours and 
misunderstandings and the adviser hadnt provided balanced advice to allay some of the 
fears. Instead he said it promoted the death benefits and potential for high levels of growth to 
encourage the transfer.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He thought it should be upheld and that 
AJH should pay compensation in line with the regulators redress methodology for unsuitable 
DB transfer advice as well as £300 for the distress caused. In summary, he felt, based on 
the information recorded Mr J was looking to make sure his benefits were protected, that he 
didnt have much capacity for loss and that he was inexperienced. So, even if he went into 
the discussion thinking transferring was a good idea, it was AJHs role to advise him, rather 
than put in place what he mightve believed he wanted. Given Mr Js age at the time of the 
advice, he didnt think a decision, involving an irreversible transfer and giving up guaranteed 
benefits, needed to be made at that time to provide flexibility in retirement. He also didnt 
think, based on his circumstances, transferring to provide improved death benefits was 
appropriate. And he felt there was very limited scope for the new pension to improve on the 
benefits that would be offered by BSPS2. So, he felt Mr J shouldve been advised to transfer 
into BSPS2.
AJH disagreed. It said BSPS2 was only a proposal at the time of the advice. But even so, it 
said CETVs in the future from BSPS2 wouldve been significantly lower than was being 
offered to Mr J at the time. So, it didnt agree it was appropriate to wait to transfer to achieve 
flexibility. And it didnt think Mr J could meet his objectives by moving to BSPS2. So, based 
on the previous performance of the pension it recommended, it disagreed that the personal 
pension was unlikely to improve on the BSPS2 benefits. And it still thought the advice was 
suitable as it met his needs for flexibility to retire at age 60. It also didnt think Mr J had 
suffered a loss as the pension had grown in value  at a rate exceeding the critical yield. And 
AJH said, if we felt the advice was unsuitable, the appropriate redress would be to require 
Mr J to take out an annuity.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. So, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided detailed arguments and a significant amount of documentation to 
consider. And Id like to reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all the evidence 
provided. If I dont comment on or refer to everything Ive been sent or that either party have 
said this isnt meant as a discourtesy or because I havent thought about it. Rather, it is 
because my decision will address what I consider to be the key issues in deciding what is 
fair and reasonable.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time the advice was given. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and 
the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of AJH's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AJH should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
I can see that AJH arranged two different reports to analyse the suggested transfer  often 
referred to as a transfer value analysis or TVAS. One in November 2017 and a second in 
January 2018  approximately a week before it provided its written summary of advice. 
These reports included estimates of the benefits that Mr J wouldve received if he didnt 
transfer (and the benefits moved to the BSPS2 or the PPF). And they also set out the critical 
yields  calculated as part of the report. 
The figures in the two reports  around benefits and critical yields  are slightly different. And 
the latter of the two reports seems to have been based on a comparison to the pension that 
AJH ultimately recommended that Mr J transfer to. But as Ive summarised, I understand the 
advice to transfer was actually given verbally in December 2017, before the second TVAS 
was arranged. So, the advice was based on the information in the first TVAS. And the written 
summary of AJHs recommendation was also based on the information in the first TVAS. So, 
as the advice was based on the first set of figures, it is these Ive considered when looking at 
this complaint  as this was the information presented to Mr J.
Mr J was 43 at the time of the advice and it was recorded that he wanted to retire at 60. AJH 
said the critical yield required to match Mr Js benefits at age 60 if he transferred his benefits 
to BSPS2 was 4.7% if he took a full pension and 3.7% if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 was 
quoted as 3.9% per year if he took a full pension and 3.5% per year if taking TFC and a reduced pension.
These figures are based on purchasing single life annuities  benefits for Mr J only. Whereas 
the benefits under the DB scheme included a spouses pension. Given Mr Js circumstances 
at the time, looking at single life figures mayve been appropriate - Mr J was single at the 
time of the advice and AJH has said hed indicated he was unlikely to marry. But there was 
still the potential for Mr J to marry before the benefits became payable  and therefore have 
had use for the spouses pension. And using the critical yield for single life annuities meant 
the comparison wasnt to what was needed to replace all of the benefits available under the 
DB scheme  which is what the regulator required. 
The TVAS report used when giving the advice said the critical yield required to purchase 
joint life benefits, and replace all of the benefits Mr J wouldve been entitled to through the 
BSPS2 at age 60, was 5.5% if Mr J took a full pension or 4.6% if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension. The figures for taking a joint life annuity to replace the PPF benefits were not 
quoted in the TVAS. But its fair to assume would likely have been greater than those for 
purchasing single life benefits.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.3% per year for 16 years to retirement. And Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And with all of this in mind, if 
he took a full pension at age 60, while its possible he couldve matched the benefits 
provided by the scheme, it appears unlikely hed have been better off as a result of 
transferring than by moving to BSPS2.  
AJH says Mr J intended to take TFC when he retired  although he didnt have a set purpose 
in mind at the point of advice. Given the critical yields for that eventuality  taking TFC at age 
60 and a reduced pension  based on the discount rate and regulators projections, it 
appears there was the prospect of matching the benefits hed have been due on a single life 
basis under BSPS2 or the PPF by investing in line with his attitude to risk. But doing so on a 
joint life basis  replacing all of the benefits Mr J held - wouldve been less likely. And there 
would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme 
only to achieve the same level of benefits outside the scheme. While the figures suggest 
there was the potential to slightly improve on the benefits of BSPS2 and the PPF, this wasnt 
guaranteed, and these improvements appeared unlikely to be substantial. And this action 
was subject to investment and longevity risk. Although Mr J was recorded as being willing to 
take risks, Im conscious that in the attitude to risk questionnaire he was clear that he wasnt 
comfortable with financial uncertainty and would rather know he was getting a guaranteed 
return than be uncertain about investments. This pension also made up the majority of his 
retirement provisions at the time of the advice. And although Mr J may have indicated he 
intended to take TFC, he was a long way from retirement, so couldnt have made a firm 
decision on this.
AJH has said that Mr J indicated he had no intention of purchasing an annuity as this 
wouldnt meet his objectives of having greater flexibility and being able to leave the residual 
balance of the fund to a family member. AJH included cashflow models in its suitability report 
which it says showed that if Mr J took the same income as hed be due under his DB 
scheme at age 60 from a personal pension, and a growth rate of 3.5% (described as a 
middle rate of return) was achieved, his pension fund would last until his late 90s  beyond 
his life expectancy. It has also provided a copy of a retirement modeller. It says this indicated, if Mr J took his 
target income of £12,000 per year from age 60  increasing the amount he drew by 2.5% per 
annum and scaling back when his state pension became payable  and 5.5% growth was 
achieved then the fund would last to age 89. Which was again beyond Mr Js life expectancy 
of 87.
And in the suitability report it referred to another model, which it said it had run at Mr Js 
request. And it said this showed if Mr J drew an income of £1,250 per month from age 60  
higher than what he initially said he was likely to need  again increasing his income at 2.5% 
per year and reducing this at stage pension age  and 6% growth was achieved, the fund 
would still last until age 86.
The suitability report also said, and AJH has referenced in response to this complaint, that 
the pension it recommended had compound annual growth of 8.79% for the three years prior 
to the advice and 10.38% for the five years before the recommendation was made.
Ive considered this information carefully. On the point of not wanting an annuity, Mr J was 
12 years from the point at which he could take any retirement benefits and 17 years from 
when he said he intended to retire. I dont think, given how far from the event he was, he 
could realistically say with certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at 
retirement or not. Its entirely possible that, by the time he reached retirement age, Mr J 
would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement.
Mr J was recorded as being in good health. So, there wasnt in my view any reason to think 
he was unlikely to reach his life expectancy. The retirement model predictions were 
dependent on achieving rates of return that, based on the discount rate, regulators 
projections and Mr Js documented attitude to risk appear unlikely. And they demonstrate 
that even if those rates were achieved the pension fund was likely to be largely or entirely 
depleted at the point Mr J would reach his life expectancy. Leaving him without any 
provisions from this pension if he lived longer than expected.
The cashflow model was based on simply achieving what was already guaranteed by the 
BSPS2, while exposing the pension to increased risk. And there would be little point in taking 
that risk to achieve the same outcome as under the BSPS2 the pension was guaranteed for 
life, with no risk of the fund running out. It also served to indicate that if particularly low 
growth happened instead, the funds would run out significantly sooner. 
Lastly, as AJH will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
I appreciate that the critical yield figures and discount rate are broadly comparable  
although less so the figures for taking a joint life annuity. But taking everything into account, 
while there was the possibility that Mr Js pension benefits might be improved, I dont think I 
can say this was more likely than not. Transferring introduced significant risk when 
compared to the DB scheme. And in the circumstances, Im not sure that risk was worthwhile 
or that taking it was in Mr Js best interests.  
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as AJH 
has suggested in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite the additional risk and benefits potentially being lower or not improved 
upon. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needsAJH says Mr J required flexibility with his pension in order to retire at age 60 and draw the 
annual pension he thought he was likely to need. But I dont think he needed to transfer to 
achieve his aims. And I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer when he did.
Mr J couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. He could take a full pension on 
retirement, which hed then receive for the rest of his life. Or he could choose to take TFC 
and a reduced pension but would have to do so together. But the information provided 
suggests this was Mr Js intention  to take his benefits continually from retirement. So, the 
DB scheme couldve met his needs in this respect. And my understanding is he couldve 
taken benefits under BSPS2 or the PPF at age 60  which he apparently intended to do.
AJH has said that Mr J was not willing to accept a reduction in his pension  either actuarial 
or because of moving to the PPF. Mr J has said it was the adviser that emphasised the 
penalties for retiring early and he just wanted advice at an uncertain time. The 
recommendation letter does make a number of references to penalties. And I dont doubt 
the idea of potentially receiving less in benefits was not something Mr J was happy about. 
But an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer. 
The starting monetary amount when compared with the full pension payable from age 65  
the normal scheme retirement age  wouldve been less. But by retiring at age 60 Mr J 
wouldve been receiving his pension for five years longer. It was a trade-off, rather than a 
penalty. And I think if it had been made clear to Mr J that he couldve still achieved his 
objectives, and retained a guaranteed pension income, hed most likely have accepted this.
The information Ive seen indicates that at age 60 Mr J could take an annual pension of 
£7,107 under BSPS2 or TFC of £33,598 and a reduced pension of £5,017 per year. The 
TVAS that AJH has provided indicates that under the PPF the benefits available wouldve 
been similar (£6,878 full annual pension or £39,731 TFC and a reduced pension of £5,159). 
These amounts wouldve continued to escalate while in payment. But they wouldnt have 
met Mr Js stated income requirement of £12,000 per year until he began receiving his state 
pension at age 67 (at which point the combination of DB benefits and state pension would 
meet his needs). 
But over the 17 years between the advice and Mr J actually retiring, he wouldve continued 
building up other retirement provisions. He had unsecured debts, but these were due to be 
cleared within a few years. The loan had less than three years of the term remaining and the 
regular payments towards credit cards wouldve likely resulted in those balances being 
cleared within the next five years. This wouldve freed up a significant portion of disposable 
income for Mr J, some of which he couldve used to save for retirement.
Mr J was also a member of his workplace pension, making contributions (he and his 
employers combined) of 12% of his salary. He indicated he intended to remain with that 
employer until he retired. In which case he wouldve continued contributions during that time. 
And  before even accounting for increases in salary, investment growth or Mr J increasing 
his contributions once his unsecured debts were cleared  by age 60 this fund wouldve 
been worth in the region of £65,000. And, had he needed to, he couldve potentially used 
this fund flexibly, to support the guaranteed pension he could draw under BSPS2, to meet 
his income needs in retirement until he began receiving the state pension.
AJH has said that BSPS2 wasnt confirmed at the point of the advice and was just a 
possibility. And if it hadnt gone ahead, Mr J wouldve ended up in the PPF. I think AJH has 
overstated the chances at the time of BSPS2 not happening. The restructuring of BSPS had 
been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the time Mr J took advice. And my 
understanding is that members of the BSPS had been given literature at the time indicating 
they had to make a choice  BSPS2 being one of the options, with details of the scheme set 
out. And I think the trustees were confident at that point that it would go ahead. But in any event, as the figures Ive set out above indicate, even if Mr Js pension had ended up in the 
PPF, I still think he couldve achieved his objectives. 
So, I dont think at the time of the advice, Mr J needed flexibility in his pension arrangements 
in order to meet his objectives. 
And again, Mr J was 43 at the time of the advice. So, it was 12 years until he could take any 
benefits and 17 years before he intended to retire. While Mr J mightve had a plan in mind, 
given the time until he was intending to retire I dont think those plans were finalised and 
couldve been subject to change, just as his circumstances and needs may have altered. So, 
I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr J to give up his guaranteed benefits 
when he did. If Mr J later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme I understand that this 
wouldve been allowed under BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to retirement.
AJH has said that CETVs offered by BSPS2 in the future would have been lower, so it 
wasnt in Mr Js interests to wait. But at the same time, it said that BSPS2 was just a 
proposal and might not have gone ahead. Its difficult to reconcile these two things  
certainty that CETVs would be less when in AJHs view BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed. But in 
any event, as Ive explained, I dont think Mr J needed flexibility, or to transfer, to meet his 
needs and objectives. So, I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility that he didnt really need at that time.
Death benefits
AJH says Mr J didnt like the idea of this pension fund dying with him. So, he liked the idea of 
being able to leave his fund to a family member. Mr J has said that it was the adviser that 
suggested this being a reason to transfer.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 or PPF wouldve provided a 
spouses and childrens pension on his death. But Mr J was single and had no children, so I 
can understand why he may not have thought the DB scheme death benefits would be of 
use to him. But Mr J was still young, and its possible he would go on to have a spouse 
and/or children in future. So, I dont think its reasonable to say at that point that Mr J 
definitely had no need for the DB scheme death benefits.
I understand that since transferring his pension, death benefits have been assigned to his 
mothers name. But I think its a reasonable assumption, as Mr J was recorded as being in 
good health, that hed most likely outlive his mother. So, there wasnt any immediate family 
members likely to benefit from the pension. 
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr J drew in his lifetime. And 
based on what appears to have been the intended plan for income  the scenario in the 
retirement modellers I mentioned previously  it appears likely the fund wouldve been 
largely if not entirely depleted by the time Mr J reached his average life expectancy. So, the 
pension may not have provided the legacy discussed, if this was a genuine concern of 
Mr Js.
The fact find also recorded that Mr J had death in service benefits from his current employer, 
which appear to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a legacy to his 
estate. And Mr J would likely have had the ability to nominate beneficiaries of his other 
personal pensions.So overall, the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension mayve been of 
interest to Mr J. But the priority here was to advise Mr J about what was best for his 
retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a 
lump sum to his estate. And I think this shouldve been emphasised as more important than 
Mr J not liking the idea of the fund not continuing after his death. I dont think the different 
death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension justified transferring Mr Js 
pension and giving up a guaranteed income, particularly given his personal circumstances. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
AJH says Mr J wanted control of his pension because he had significant concerns about the 
BSPS, his former employer, whether the BSPS2 would happen and his fund ending up in the 
PPF. It also said that Mr J felt the growth rates that the BSPS2 would provide were low and 
unattractive which was why hed ruled this out. 
Mr J has said that it was the adviser that was sceptical about the BSPS2 during their 
discussions. And that it was the adviser that indicated the PPF was an unsuitable option.
Firstly, I think Mr Js desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Nothing Ive 
seen suggests that Mr J was an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an 
interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. I dont 
doubt that he was worried about what potentially could happen to his pension benefits. But 
I dont think that taking direct control was a genuine objective for Mr J  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Im also not sure, given he doesnt appear to have been an experienced investor, its likely 
that Mr J had made an assessment of the value of the BSPS2 scheme, in particular the 
growth rates, before taking advice. 
Its clear that Mr J, was concerned about his pension. Although he no longer worked for his 
former employer, it had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme of 
which he was still a member. I dont doubt he was worried his pension would end up in the 
PPF and that this might be negative  given the information being discussed at the time 
between scheme members. 
So, its quite possible that Mr J was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his former employer and the generally negative perception of the 
PPF. However, it was AJHs obligation to give Mr J an objective picture and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by the time advice was given details of the BSPS2 were known and it 
seemed likely it was going ahead. And I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Js concerns about 
the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that AJH shouldve 
reassured Mr J that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
Based on his apparent retirement intentions, as Ive explained, the income available to Mr J 
through the PPF couldve still allowed him to meet his objectives. And although the 
increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not 
subject to any investment risk. By transferring he was taking on additional risk and, as Ive 
explained, I dont think he was likely to be substantially better off by transferring, such that 
taking this risk was in his interests. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to AJH 
recommending Mr J transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
SummaryI dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But AJH 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted  which arguably the 
summary in the recommendation indicates it was doing when it said it could support his 
decision if he elected to transfer his benefits. The advisers role was to recommend what 
was in his best interests  even if that was not in line with Mr Js existing opinion. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring, 
I dont think Mr J was likely to improve his benefits, but his fund, which at that point was the 
majority of his retirement provisions, would be subject to additional risk. I dont think he 
necessarily needed flexibility to achieve his objectives and I certainly dont think a decision 
on this needed to be made at the time it was  given how long he had until his retirement. 
I also dont think him not liking the idea of there being no lump sum death benefits meant 
transferring to address this was in his interests. And overall, I dont think it was in Mr Js best 
interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at the time when he had 
the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr J had 17 years before he 
expected and intended to retire. And, while hed tried to estimate what his needs in 
retirement would likely be, these werent known. So, I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr J wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think AJH shouldve advised 
Mr J to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've transferred his benefits away from the 
BSPS anyway, against AJH's advice. AJH has indicated it thinks Mr J wouldve done. It says 
Mr J already had a CETV and sought advice after obtaining this. The recommendation letter 
talked about Mr Js insistence to transfer. As Ive summarised previously, it has said that he 
had a negative opinion of his former employer and the BSPS. It said he didnt think the 
BSPS2 would end up being put in place or that it would last if it did and he didnt want his 
benefits to move to the PPF. It also said Mr J felt the BSPS2s growth rates were low and he 
wouldnt have been willing to accept any reduction to his pension. So, he was adamant he 
wanted to move his benefits away.
Ive considered this carefully. Its true that Mr J does appear to have received a CETV before 
he was in touch with AJH. But I understand by that time hed also been sent literature by the 
trustees of BSPS saying that he needed to make a choice about his pension. Obtaining a 
CETV allowed him to make an informed choice. But I dont think this means his mind was 
already made up.
As Ive explained already, I dont doubt that Mr J had concerns about the PPF. And he may 
have had a negative impression of his former employer and the BSPS. Which couldve led 
him in turn to think negatively of the BSPS2. But Mr J was an inexperienced investor who 
sought independent advice and guidance. So, if AJH had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, 
I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Js concerns about the PPF or negative impression of the BSPS 
were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if AJH had explained he could meet his income needs in retirement 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think AJH should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
AJH argues that Mr J should be compelled to purchase an annuity  and it has said the fact 
that he hasnt already done so when making his complaint demonstrates he did want to 
transfer and achieve flexibility. It is evident that Mr J will benefit from flexibility by virtue of the 
position he is in now, but that has only arisen because of the unsuitable advice. And 
ultimately the Regulator has set out what it deems to be appropriate redress to put right 
instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer advice. And I see no reason to 
depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator recommended that AJH also pay Mr J £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr J has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for AJHs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, AJH should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr J, via his representatives, whether he preferred any redress to 
be calculated now in line with current guidance or wait for any new guidance / rules to be 
published.
Mr J didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt 
want to wait for any new guidance.  
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr J.
AJH must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr J has not retired yet, and is not due to do so for some time. So, in the 
circumstances, I think compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
AJH may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date AJH receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes AJH to pay Mr J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect AJH to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, AJH should pay Mr J £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AJH Financial Services 
Ltd to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require AJH 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
AJH Financial Services Ltd pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AJH Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman