DRN-1704904
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr F says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
Mr F has raised a number of complaint points. Ive read and considered all the evidence on 
the file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened given 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below. 
I think Capital One made it clear that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this, many years later. I say 
this because Ive been given a copy of the script the representative was supposed to follow 
at the time and I can see that the representative was supposed to only add the cover if they 
got the consumers agreement, and they were supposed to position it as something that the 
consumer could say no to. I havent seen sufficient evidence to find that this guidance was 
not followed in this case. 
I have also considered that the statements showed that Mr F was paying for Payment 
Protection Insurance. So, if Mr F hadnt agreed to the cover at the time of the telephone call, 
then his statements ought to have alerted him that he was paying for something he cant 
now recall having agreed to at the time. And in those circumstances, I think he would have, 
most likely, raised this as an issue with Capital One many years before he eventually chose 
to do. So, it seems most likely that Mr F agreed to the PPI and would have known he had a 
choice about taking the PPI out or not. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr F got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive 
considered that Mr F was only entitled to sick pay that would last no more than six months in 
the event he was too ill to work. And Mr F told us he had no other means he could have 
relied on in that event, or if he lost his job. So as this policy could have paid out for up to 12 
months in that event, or if Mr F lost his job, I think the policy would have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would 
have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold 
by Capital One (Europe) plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman