DRN-2504395
The complaint
Mr W complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
 Based on the information provided, Lending Stream provided Mr W with four loans between 
19 September and 23 October 2019.
Loan Date Amount (£) Repaid 
1 19-09-2019 100 21-09-2019
2 02-10-2019 250 Outstanding 
3 14-10-2019 250 Outstanding 
4 23-10-2019 150 Outstanding 
Mr W says that he took out the loans shortly after each other and that Lending Stream 
should have realised the loans werent affordable. He says he was having to borrow more to 
make his repayments and Lending Stream should have carried out more checks before 
lending to him to check he wasnt a vulnerable consumer. Mr W says he suffers from 
depression and the anxiety caused by the loans has made his situation worse.
Lending Stream issued a final response in which it said that before the loans were provided 
is gathered information about Mr Ws income and expenses to ensure the loans were 
affordable. It said that loans 1 to 3 were affordable based on its checks. It said that loan 4 
was affordable but having considered the number of loans and when these were taken out, it 
thought it might not have been a good idea to provide this loan. Therefore, it upheld Mr Ws 
complaint regarding loan 4 and offered to refund the interest and charges paid on this loan 
along with interest and to remove any adverse information recorded about this loan from 
Mr Ws credit file.
Our adjudicator thought that the offer made regarding loan 4 was reasonable and in line with 
what this service would expect. They didnt think there was enough evidence to say that 
loans 1 to 3 shouldnt have been provided.
Mr W didnt accept our adjudicators view. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W was provided with four loans within a very short period. Before the loans were 
provided Lending stream collected information about Mr Ws income and expenses. The first 
loan was for £100 and having considered the repayment amounts compared to Mr Ws 
monthly income I find the checks carried out before this loan was provided were reasonable. 
As the loan appeared affordable I do not find that Lending Stream did anything wrong by 
providing this loan.
Mr W repaid the first loan early and then took out a second loan for £250 on 2 October 2019. 
This was still early in the lending relationship and having considered the information 
gathered I find this proportionate given the size of the loan and repayment amounts 
compared with Mr Ws income. The loan was affordable based on the information gathered 
and so I find it reasonable that this loan was provided.
Mr W then took out a third loan before repaying the second. This was taken out less than 
two weeks after the second loan. This increased his total borrowing with Lending Stream. 
Therefore I have considered the total repayment amounts due against his income. The loans 
were repayable over six monthly instalments and having considered the total repayment amounts compared to Mr Ws income and noting this was still only the third loan in the 
lending chain, I do not find that I have enough to say that Lending Stream shouldnt have 
provided this loan.
Loan four was his fourth in just over a month. While the first loan had been repaid, the 
second and third were still outstanding. I think this should have raised concerns that Mr W 
was struggling to manage his money and that this loan was unlikely to be sustainably 
affordable. Lending Stream upheld this loan in its final response, and I agree with the 
decision.
Lending Stream made an offer of redress regarding loan 4 that is in line with what we would 
recommend and therefore I find the offer made by Lending Stream to resolve this complaint 
was reasonable.
 
Putting things right. 
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not lent loan 4 to Mr W.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Having noted the above, I find that the offer made by Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending 
Stream in its final response letter was reasonable. So, as it offered, it should (if this hasnt 
already happened):
refund the interest and fees Mr W paid on loan 4 along with 8% simple interest* 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding this loan.
The refunded amount can be offset against any outstanding balance. As Gain Credit LLC 
has offered, it should work with Mr W to set up repayment plan for the outstanding balance if 
helpful to Mr W. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit LLC to take off tax from this interest. Gain 
Credit LLC must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Gain Credit LLC intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital 
balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint regarding loan 4 is reasonable.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman