DRN-3352999
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with how Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General 
(Faimead) handled her home insurance claim and the quality of the repairs carried out. 
In my decision, any reference to Fairmead also includes the actions of its associated agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms W and Fairmead. I wont repeat 
what is already known to both parties.
In summary, Ms Ws property suffered an escape of water in February 2020. Fairmead 
accepted the claim and arranged for contractors to carry out redecoration works. 
Fairmead say that due to a combination of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and associated 
restrictions, as well as delays caused by other (separate to this claim) plumbing works 
needed - the work took some time to complete. Ms W says that the work wasnt completed 
until September 2020 and she was unhappy with the quality of the work. Ms W raised this 
issue of poor workmanship with Fairmead. 
Initially Fairmead said that as Ms W had told them shed already had the necessary remedial 
works carried out, theyd consider invoices to cover her outlay and settled the claim. But at a 
later date Fairmead changed their position as they say Ms W clarified that the remedial 
works hadnt actually been carried out at that point. Fairmead proposed an alternative  that 
their contractors would reinspect the property and theyd look to rectify any areas identified 
as poor workmanship. 
Ms W rejected this alternative proposal as she didnt want the contractors to return to her 
property and asked Fairmead to settle the claim by reimbursing her for the cost of the main 
remedial works - which totalled £350.
As Ms W was unable to resolve her complaint with Fairmead, she asked our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator most recently upheld the complaint and recommended 
that Fairmead settle the claim by reimbursing Ms W £350. Fairmead didnt accept the 
recommendations so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The service provided when handling the claim 
Ms W has expressed dissatisfaction at the length of time taken for the claim to be settled. I 
dont find that there were major avoidable delays that are solely the responsibility of 
Fairmead. This claim was impacted by two main issues - COVID-19 restrictions and another 
leak that required attention by a tradesperson not linked to this claim before work could 
proceed. When coming to my decision I acknowledge that delays caused for these reasons 
were beyond the control of Fairmead.
The ultimate settlement of the claim was also impacted by the confusion over whether or not 
Ms W had actually appointed her own contractors to carry out the remaining remedial works. 
Overall, I dont find that the service provided by Fairmead was so poor or that they are 
responsible for any avoidable delays to the extent that compensation is warranted for this 
reason. I find that they listened to Ms Ws concerns and tried to find an agreed way forward. 
The settlement of the claim
As Fairmead accepted the claim and agreed to the works, I need to decide if theyve fairly 
settled the claim. Based on the evidence Ive seen - which includes contemporaneous 
photographs of the area of the property Fairmeads agents worked on during and after the 
works were completed, Im persuaded that the repairs were not completed to the standard 
that Ms W reasonably expected. Therefore, I dont find that they have fully or fairly settled 
this claim. 
When reaching this finding Ive kept in mind what Fairmead have said about the existing 
condition of the property prior to the works commencing. But it remains that a number of 
areas including a wall were not in keeping with what was there before or finished to an 
acceptable standard. 
I accept that Fairmead tried to get Ms Ws agreement to send their contractors to inspect the 
work and rectify the issues Ms W was unhappy about. I also understand why Ms W may 
have had reservations about agreeing to this given her previous negative experience with 
the quality of their work. I dont think this was unreasonable of Ms W.
Given the relatively small amount being claimed for here  when considered against the 
costs to Fairmead for the original works and because Im reasonably persuaded that the 
repairs werent of an acceptable standard to Ms W, in this specific case I find the fairest and 
most reasonable way to settle the claim is for Fairmead to pay Ms W £350. 
This is the amount that shes said she had to pay a third-party contractor to carry out the 
main remedial work for the wall in question and provided supporting evidence of. Ive also 
noted that she hasnt claimed for all of the costs related to all of the remedial work - for 
example, separate remedial costs for some of the paint work in the kitchen and the flooring 
havent been claimed for.  
When reaching this conclusion Ive kept in mind the relevant policy terms - but also the time 
and costs likely involved in having the property re-inspected - as well as the end result more 
likely than not being the same. Im satisfied that although an in-person inspection is 
generally preferred, the photographs provided by Ms W go far enough in this specific case to 
show that the works werent completed to the expected standard and therefore Ms W wasnt 
fully indemnified for her claim. 
Ive also noted that in their final response letter Fairmead proposed that Ms W send them 
photographs of the areas of concern at the time works were completed and the 
report/invoice from your contractors, which should identify what the issues were and what was needed in order to rectify these. So I dont consider my direction to be unfair or outside 
the range of reasonable outcomes in this complaint. 
Putting things right
Fairmead should now pay Ms W £350 to fully settle this claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General should 
now follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman