DRN-4073781
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos) 
registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr S paid a cheque to his Argos credit card to clear the balance and bring it 
into credit.
The cheque was returned as fraudulent. Argos spoke to the sending bank, and got 
confirmation that they thought the cheque was not genuine. Argos then spoke to Mr S, and 
decided to close his account and register a marker at CIFAS.
Mr S explained at different points that the cheque was either his payment for professional 
work hed recently done for the sender, or a personal payment, or was for work hed done 
around a decade or more ago. He had no evidence of the work hed done, nor of any contact 
with the sender, and he said hed since fallen out with the sender so it wasnt possible to 
contact them now. He said the sender had since paid him, but this was in cash which hed 
never deposited anywhere and had since spent, so he couldnt evidence that either.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mr S and Argos a provisional decision on 31 January 2023, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
In order to register this marker, Argos were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr S had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I currently think that there are sufficient grounds for this marker to 
remain. Ill explain why.
Argos received a report from the sending bank that Mr S had attempted to pay off his credit 
card using a stolen cheque. They were entitled to rely on this report.
I do not think it is likely or plausible that the sender made a false report. Mr S said the sender 
paid him afterwards by a different method. And if the sender had cancelled the cheque in 
order to avoid paying Mr S, then I dont see why they would then just pay Mr S anyway.
If the cheque was for work Mr S did, then it wouldve been quite straightforward for him to 
evidence he was entitled to the funds. But so far, Mr S has not given us any evidence at all 
of his entitlement.
If Mr S had carried out work for the sender, then he would have evidence of this as a matter 
of course. Given Mr Ss line of work, such bookkeeping would be standard. And he was 
required to keep records for things like tax purposes, which again Mr S wouldve known. Yet 
Mr S has been unable to provide any evidence whatsoever that this work was carried out.
Similarly, Mr S had apparently been chasing this debt for some time  around six months, or 
around ten years depending on which version of events we use. And he said he was in 
contact with the sender afterwards to receive payment by another method. So there should 
be records of this, like bills he sent, chasers by letter or email, text messages, and so on. Yet 
Mr S has not provided any evidence of any contact with the sender. He also says hes not 
able to give us any evidence of the alternative payment as it was all in cash, hed never 
logged or deposited it anywhere, and hed spent it. Thats really quite unusual  again, if this 
was to clear a longstanding professional debt then Id expect Mr S to have some record of 
this, not least given the relevance of bookkeeping in his line of work.
While this is only a minor point, it is also notable that the cheque is addressed to Argos Card 
Services, not Mr S. It would be highly unusual for someone to pay for professional work by 
writing a cheque to the professionals personal credit card provider.
Im afraid I do also need to point out that Mr Ss testimony has been inconsistent and 
contradictory. For example, at different points hes said notably different things about why 
this money was owed to him and about what time period the debt came from. This makes it 
very difficult for me to take any of his versions of events as being correct.
In summary, Argos received an official report of fraud from another financial institution. Mr S 
has been unable to provide any evidence that he was entitled to the funds, despite all the 
evidence he could and should be able to provide. His testimony has been contradictory, and 
what hes told us is not very likely or plausible. So it seems fair that Argos closed his account 
and registered the appropriate marker with CIFAS. This is a difficult message for me to give, 
and I know its a difficult message for Mr S to receive. But given the evidence I currently 
have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I have written this as a provisional decision, rather than a final decision, in order to give Mr S 
a further opportunity to evidence his entitlement to the funds. As before, this could be things 
like records showing the work he carried out for the sender, communications with the sender 
discussing the money owed, or contact from the sender now confirming the validity of the 
cheque. Im afraid that without such evidence, I dont currently see that the marker should be 
lifted. Mr S will need to make sure that we have received any further evidence before the 
deadline on 28 February 2023. After that, I will make a final decision.
Lastly, I understand Mr S was unhappy that Argos didnt inform him beforehand that they 
were going to register a marker at CIFAS. But I should explain that they were not required to 
inform him beforehand.
I then sent a second provisional decision on 28 March 2023, changing the outcome in 
response to further information that was provided. In that decision, I said:In response to the previous decision, Mr Ss representative provided a letter from the 
sender of the cheque. The sender included a copy of his debit card as identification. He 
confirmed he had genuinely sent the cheque to Mr S, had made it payable to Argos at 
Mr Ss request, and had later paid Mr S in cash instead.
We forwarded this to the sending bank, who confirmed that the provided debit card was 
genuine and active. It appeared that this letter really came from their accountholder. They 
explained that the cheque had been suspected as being fraudulent or counterfeit, mainly 
due to the signature differing from the one on record. They had tried to contact the sender 
to confirm whether hed really sent the cheque or not, but they couldnt get through to him 
and didnt get a response. So the cheque was returned as ingenuine.
Now that the sender has confirmed he really did mean to pay Mr Ss credit card with this 
cheque, it follows that Argos should remove the resulting CIFAS marker. 
Ive considered whether Argos should pay Mr S any compensation for registering this 
marker. But while I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr S  and while it is not 
my intention to disappoint him  I dont think they should. Wed only award compensation if 
we thought the business had done something substantially wrong. But here, Argos had 
sufficient grounds to close Mr Ss account and register the CIFAS marker based on what 
they knew at the time.
As I explained in my previous provisional decision, Argos received an official report that 
the cheque had been returned under fraud or counterfeiting concerns, and they confirmed 
this with the sending bank. Until now, Mr S did not provide any evidence that he was 
entitled to the money, even when such evidence should have been easy to provide. His 
testimony was notably inconsistent and unlikely, and the way the cheque was addressed 
was highly unusual. So it seems reasonable that Argos registered the marker.
Now that Im directing Argos to remove the marker, I hope this will help Mr S get things 
back on track.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 April 2023. Mr Ss representative confirmed they had nothing more to add. Argos asked 
for a copy of what the sending bank said, which our investigator forwarded to them. But 
they didnt add anything further to that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments in response to the second 
provisional decision. So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as 
in my second provisional decision, and for the same reasons as set out above.
Putting things right
I direct Home Retail Group Card Services Limited to remove the CIFAS marker in dispute.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part, and direct Home Retail Group Card Services Limited to 
remove the CIFAS marker in dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman