DRN-3813800
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Vitality Health Limited has unfairly refused her claim for medical and 
related expenses incurred abroad.
For ease, any reference to Vitality also includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs J had worldwide travel insurance coverage as a benefit under her private health 
insurance policy with Vitality. The policy started in October 2015 and was renewed annually.
In early January 2020, Mrs J booked a trip abroad including travel to two countries, which I 
will call P and U. She was due to depart on 25 January 2020 to travel to P and then fly on 
to U before returning to the UK on 19 March 2020.
Whilst in P, Mrs J says she noticed a lump in her breast and undertook tests. The results 
showed that she had an irregular mass with a high chance that this could be cancerous. 
When she travelled to U, Mrs J had further tests which confirmed that she did have cancer 
and she underwent surgery on 6 March 2020  a double mastectomy. Following her surgery, 
she received chemotherapy treatment. Mrs J didnt come back to the UK on 19 March 2020 
as planned but returned on 4 June 2020.
On 23 March 2020, Mrs J raised a claim with Vitality for the medical expenses incurred. But 
Vitality declined the claim. It said she had attempted to misrepresent the circumstances 
surrounding the event claimed in order to gain benefit for which she knew she wasnt 
entitled. It referred to several instances where it said there were inconsistencies in the 
information she provided surrounding her claim. As a result, Vitality declined the claims and 
cancelled her private health insurance policy from the date the claim was first made.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs J complained to Vitality, but it maintained its position. 
Vitality also said that Mrs J should have notified it of the potential claim prior to having the 
operation as the policy requires her to do so in the event of an illness which may lead to 
inpatient treatment. Vitality also referred to the policy condition relating to the number of 
days a policy holder is required to live in the UK in each policy year, along with a 
requirement to be registered with a UK GP. It said that as Mrs J didnt meet these policy 
conditions, she wasnt in fact eligible for the cover.
Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter. He said 
he thought there was insufficient evidence to say Mrs J deliberately intended to misrepresent 
the circumstances of the claim. But he did think Mrs J was aware of the seriousness of her 
condition following her tests in P and that, by not contacting Vitality at this point, she had 
prejudiced its position to deal with the claim. So, he found it reasonable that Vitality didnt 
cover the claim. In relation to Mrs Js eligibility for the cover, he found that there were a 
number of years where she didnt appear to meet the requirements. He recommended that 
Vitality cancel the policy from the first renewal in 2016 and refund the premiums for those 
years where she wasnt eligible for cover.
Both Vitality and Mrs J disagreed with our investigators opinion. So, the case was passed to 
me to decide.
On 31 October 2022, I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs J. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service, its remit and my role in it.
When making my decision, the law is a relevant consideration which Ive taken into account. 
But Im not bound by legal precedent. Regulatory rules and industry guidelines say that 
insurers must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive also taken 
these rules into account. But, my overriding remit is to decide what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the overall circumstances of Mrs Js complaint.
The term Vitality has relied upon to cancel Mrs Js policy says:
General Conditions
These are the general conditions that apply to this plan. There are other conditions 
that specifically relate to the claims process that you must follow and these are 
shown within the Claims conditions section
4.4 DISHONESTY/FRAUD
We believe our customers are honest, and the contract between us is based on 
mutual trust.
Representations including statements and information provided by you or any 
insured dependants are relied on in assessing the terms of cover. In the event that 
any of the information provided by you or any insured dependant is wrong or 
incomplete we may have the right to cancel cover with effect from inception and/or to 
decline claims made under the plan.
If any claim is in any respect dishonest or fraudulent or if any dishonest or fraudulent 
means or devices are used by you, any member of your household or anyone acting 
on your or their behalf to obtain benefit under your plan (including any cashback, 
discounts or rewards), then all benefits under your plan may be lost and you may 
have to return to us any payments already made as a result of any dishonest or 
fraudulent actions.
In relying on the condition quoted above the onus falls to Vitality to show that it applies. Its 
important to note that it isnt my role to decide whether Mrs J has been fraudulent or not. 
Rather, Ive needed to think about whether Vitality came to a fair and reasonable conclusion 
that Mrs J breached the fraud condition, based on its investigation and evidence.
Vitality has also said that the worldwide travel benefit is intended to cover urgent or 
emergency treatment that cannot wait until the return to the UK. The relevant part of the 
policy states in a medical emergency, they will give you help and advice and, if necessary, 
arrange emergency repatriation. The policy also states that the policy holder must contact 
Vitality in the event of an illness or accident which may lead to in-patient treatment or 
before any arrangements are made for repatriation..Vitality has said Mrs J should have contacted it prior to travelling to U as she was aware of 
an illness which may lead to in-patient treatment. It says Mrs J was aware that her claim may 
not be eligible and that she has attempted to misrepresent the circumstances around the 
event claimed in order to gain benefit from the plan for a claim which she knew to be 
ineligible.
It has referred to various conversations it held with Mrs J following her contact on 23 March 
2020 and other evidence it has obtained during its investigation of the claim. Ive listed below 
several of the points raised by Vitality:
Mrs J advised Vitality that it wasnt until she arrived in U that she discovered the lump 
and sought treatment. During a follow up call, Vitality asked Mrs J if she found the 
lump whilst on holiday in U and she confirmed that was the case. Only when it then 
raised queries about the condition being in existence before travel (as the 
appointment with the consultant had been booked prior to Mrs J arriving in U), did 
Mrs J confirm that she had found the lump earlier whilst in P and taken tests in that 
country.
In a call on 5 May 2020, Mrs J told Vitality that the lump was found a few days before 
travelling to U. Although she had some tests in P, she was unable to arrange a 
biopsy there. Vitality said Mrs J told them that she had contacted a London clinic to 
arrange a biopsy but was told she would need a consultation and a mammogram 
first. As this would delay treatment, she said she decided to travel to U as a relative 
had been able to book an appointment for her. Vitality says Mrs J told them in this 
call that she had no reason to believe this was cancer  but the information from the 
medical reports states there was a high suspicion of the disease and it seems 
reasonable to assume Mrs J would have been made aware of this. 
Vitality has said it has subsequently been made aware of an email Mrs J sent to her 
broker on 17 March 2020. In this email Mrs J stated that she was in U and had a 
routine mammogram whilst there. She says she was advised to have a double 
mastectomy. Vitality says this directly conflicts the symptom onset provided to them 
on 23 March 2020 and on 5 May 2020.
Whilst I have only detailed a few of the reasons Vitality has relied upon in invoking the fraud 
condition, it does appear that Mrs J has been inconsistent in her explanation of some of the 
key events leading up to her treatment in U, and her eventual claim. Mrs J has said that 
there was no deliberate intention to mislead Vitality and that she told them she was unclear 
about the dates during the calls. I appreciate that this would have been a distressing time for 
Mrs J, however, the inconsistencies in her version of events which Vitality has quoted dont 
just relate to dates  they relate to what I consider to be the central circumstances of the 
claim (i.e. Mrs Js physical location when she first found the lump and the fact that she had 
initially sought treatment in another country).
Im also mindful that Mrs J provided different accounts as to why she didnt make contact 
with Vitality earlier, initially saying that she didnt know she had cover and then subsequently 
that she didnt think the condition was serious enough to warrant contact. Based on the 
medical evidence Ive seen, it would appear that the likely seriousness of her condition was 
made aware to her prior to leaving P and that it was important for her to seek treatment 
quickly.
Taking all of this into account, Im currently satisfied that it isnt unfair or unreasonable for 
Vitality to apply the fraud condition and to cancel the policy back to the date of the claim. In 
the circumstances, I dont require it to return any premiums.In any event, Vitality has said that if Mrs J had made contact with it at this point, it is likely 
that it would have arranged for Mrs J to be repatriated to the UK. There is a requirement for 
the policyholder to take all reasonable steps to avoid, or keep to a minimum, any loss, 
damage or expense. By not making contact at this early stage, Im persuaded that Mrs J 
has placed Vitality at a disadvantage in terms of managing the cost of this claim. So, even if I 
didnt think Vitality had acted fairly by cancelling the policy, I wouldnt recommend that 
Vitality should accept this claim.
Im aware that Vitality has raised other concerns regarding Mrs Js eligibility status for the 
policy. However, as there are other reasons why I think it is fair for Vitality to say the claim 
shouldnt succeed, I dont think its necessary to make any findings on this point.
Both parties confirmed they had received the provisional decision. Vitality stated it had no 
further comments to add. Mrs J said she didnt accept the decision, however, she didnt have 
any final points to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank both parties for responding to the provisional decision. Whilst I note that 
Mrs J doesnt accept the decision outcome reached, she hasnt provided any additional 
comments or points for me to consider. In the circumstances, I see no reason to change the 
outcome reached in the provisional decision as detailed. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman