DRN-2938637
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to cover the cost of items stolen 
from her car and contribute towards the cost of a replacement car.
What happened
Mrs Ms car was stolen but she found it the next day and told LV. LV said it would recover 
the car to her local garage. But it recovered it to a storage facility, and it was a week before it 
was taken to the garage. Mrs M then found that a number of personal items had been stolen 
from the car. LV offered Mrs M £100 compensation for the mistake in handling her claim. 
And it said Mrs M should report the theft to the police and contact it about the stolen items.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought LVs 
offer of compensation was fair and reasonable for the impact of its error on Mrs M. And she 
thought that Mrs M hadnt responded to LVs request about her stolen items, so she didnt 
think it needed to do anything further.
Mrs M replied that her tracking device showed that her car had been driven around for a 
week after it was recovered. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has provided us a detailed account of events. She said her car was stolen without the 
use of keys and she was able to locate it using its tracking device. The police couldnt assist 
immediately, so she and her husband recovered the car. She said the dash-cam had been 
stolen from it. 
Mrs M said she then contacted LV and a claim was opened. LV said its recovery agent 
would collect the car and take it to Mrs Ms local garage to have the keys recoded. The car 
was collected, but it was taken to the wrong place. Mrs M found this out five days later. LV 
then told her the car was at a garage. But, two days later, Mrs M found that the car was at a 
salvage yard. So she thought LV had lost her car for a week. I can understand that this must 
have been stressful and upsetting. 
Mrs M said she then retrieved her car from her local garage due to the time it said it would 
take to recode the keys and locks. This was before LV had a chance to inspect it. She asked 
LV to find a main dealer that could recode the keys more quickly. She also found that other 
items had been stolen from the car. Mrs M said that because of the emotional upset, she felt 
she had to change her car and so she cancelled her policy. 
I can see from its file that LV questioned its agent about why it had taken the car to its 
storage facility. LV agreed that there was no justifiable reason why its agent hadnt taken 
Mrs Ms car to her local garage as it had requested. It agreed that this had caused her 
distress, delay and inconvenience.
Mrs M said she had a detailed map of where the car had been driven. But I think LV has 
already apologised and agreed that it cant justify why it hadnt been taken to the garage as 
instructed. So I dont think it needs to provide Mrs M with further information about this. 
I can see that Mrs M had two days of stress and upset when she wasnt sure where her car 
was located. And I think LVs offer of £100 compensation for this is fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with what Id require in similar situations. So I dont require LV to increase this 
or to compensate Mrs M for the cost of buying a replacement car as this was Mrs Ms 
choice.
LV also asked Mrs M if she wanted to make a claim for the theft. It said she should report the 
theft of the missing items to the police. And it asked Mrs M to provide it with a list of the 
missing items and where in the car they had been located so that it could investigate this 
further. 
From what I can see, Mrs M told LV that she was no longer making a theft claim. And I can 
see that her claim was closed as for information only and this didnt affect her No Claims 
Discount. But in that case LV would have no need to ask her for the CCTV footage she said 
was available. And, as she had said the dash cam was stolen in the theft, then LV wouldnt 
be responsible for this cost. 
Mrs M said shed reported the theft of the missing items to the police. But she hasnt 
responded to LVs request for more information about them. I think its reasonable for LV to 
ask for further information so that it can investigate the theft. I think the information Mrs Ms 
already provided isnt detailed enough for it to consider. And I cant see that Mrs M has 
made a complaint to LV about it not compensating her for this loss. So I dont require LV to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman