DRN-2672898
The complaint
Mrs M complains about interest charged on her credit card account by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC and about how it dealt with her request for account statements.
What happened
Mrs M says she received a letter in August 2020 from Barclays about a credit card debt she 
was unaware of. In October 2020 Mrs M says she noticed a direct debit payment to Barclays 
and so made a number of calls to it about the direct debit and the credit card debt. She says 
she also asked for account statements and further information about the debt. Mrs M says 
she was told she had opened the account and made a balance transfer in 2014 but says she 
didnt receive any account statements and was unaware of the account being set up for 
paperless communication. She says she always pays these sorts of debts in full and must 
have forgotten about the account. Mrs M would like Barclays to significantly reduce the debt 
by removing the interest as she would have repaid it in full at the expiry of the interest free 
period.
Barclays says Mrs M applied online for the account and set up the direct debit. It says Mrs M 
called it to make the balance transfer and the account was automatically set up for paperless 
communication. Barclays says it sent a monthly e-mail to Mrs M and that e-mail would have 
been provided during the application. It says interest was correctly applied in line with 
account terms and conditions.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and also complains that her direct debit amount changed 
and questions why the interest varies.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part and thought Mrs M would have agreed to 
paperless communication during the application process and would have had to provide her 
e-mail address. The investigator thought it Mrs Ms responsibility to manage her account and 
she would have set up the direct debit amount. And thought the interest varied depending on 
the days in a month and that the direct debit reduced due to Barclays waiving interest for a 
month. The investigator accepted Mrs M had waited some time for copy statements and had 
received poor service when bringing the complaint. He recommended Barclays pay £100 
compensation for that part of the complaint.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and in summary says the e-mail address Barclays held for 
her hadnt been used in some years before the application in 2014. She says that must be a 
mistake by Barclays and that the £100 is not enough for the interest she has paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Barclays online credit card application process and at its records. 
Im satisfied that Mrs M applied for the credit card account online and that process requires 
an e-mail address to be provided and confirmed. I find it was up to Mrs M to provide a 
correct e-mail address and I have not seen any evidence that Barclays made a mistake or 
could have inserted an incorrect e-mail in an online application made by Mrs M. So, I cant 
fairly conclude Barclays was at fault in the recording of the e-mail and in any event I think 
Mrs M ought reasonably to have noticed at or around the time that she wasnt receiving any 
statements or didnt receive any communication from Barclays via e-mail to tell her the 
account had been set up.
I can see that Mrs M made a balance transfer to the Barclays credit card account some days 
after the account was opened. So, I think at that stage Mrs M would have been aware the 
account was open and that she set up the direct debit payment amount. I find it was Mrs M 
responsibility to manage her account and to make sure the balance transfer was repaid 
before the expiry of the interest free period if that is what she wanted. I think Mrs M ought 
reasonably to have realised that the direct debit amount would not have repaid the balance 
transfer amount within the interest free period.
I appreciate Mrs M says she didnt receive the e-mail notifications about the account 
statements. But Im satisfied this was Mrs Ms account and her responsibility to manage it. I 
also think she ought to have noticed the direct debit payment to Barclays which had been in 
place for about six years before she questioned it and I have made clear that I think Mrs M 
would have been aware of the debt in 2014. It follows that I cant fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for Mrs M forgetting about the account.
There is no doubt Barclays didnt deal appropriately with Mrs M when she complained to it 
and didnt provide the account statements. Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly agreed to 
pay the £100 compensation recommended by the investigator and I think that amount is fair 
and reasonable for that part of the complaint. Im also satisfied Barclays has explained why 
the interest varied, due to the amount of days in a month and has explained that the direct 
debit amount varied due to it waiving interest.
Overall, I find this was an account opened online by Mrs M and that she made a balance 
transfer to the account of just under £9,000. And that I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible 
for Mrs M forgetting about the account. I also think Mrs M ought to have been aware that the 
direct debit amount she set up would not have cleared the balance within the interest free 
period regardless of her not receiving account statements. I appreciate Mrs M also 
complains about ongoing issues about paying the outstanding balance and calculating the 
interest. I think Mrs M has the account statements and has been given information about the 
balance as well as how to pay it. I make clear that we are not an auditing service and its not 
our role to check the interest calculations. I have not seen any evidence that Barclays has 
made a mistake in calculating the amount of interest and am satisfied its entitled to charge 
interest in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
Putting things right
I intend to order Barclays to pay Mrs M £100 compensation for part of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint but uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint about the customer service issues. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs M 
£100 compensation. Mrs Ms acceptance of this decision would be in full and final settlement 
of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman