DRN-4036591
The complaint
L complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to block its account. 
Mr A, Ls director, says this caused significant loss to Ls business and wants HSBC to 
provide a proper explanation for its actions and compensation.
What happened
Between September and October 2021, L received several payments into its account. 
Following this, in January 2022, HSBC restricted Ls account  including the money in it  
while they carried out a review. HSBC asked L for proof of entitlement to the funds held in 
the account, and L provided this. HSBC continued with their review and informed L they 
were complying with their UK statutory requirements so L couldnt transact on the account. 
To date Ls account is still restricted. 
Mr A said that each time he contacted HSBC he wasnt provided any explanation for the 
banks actions or a timeframe regarding its review. Mr A, explained that the limitation of Ls 
account meant L hadnt been able to pay staff wages, bills and loans. He said this caused 
financial loss to L and personal distress to him as the director because he wasnt able to 
provide basic essentials for his family. Mr A also said his mental health suffered. 
Our investigator reviewed things and thought HSBCs actions were fair and it had blocked 
Ls account in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. Mr A, on behalf of L 
disagreed. He said he can provide further information to the bank if required and wants an 
explanation about what is going on with Ls account.
As no agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr A on 
behalf of L and HSBC have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information HSBC 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I 
havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr A, but Id like to reassure him that I have 
considered everything.
HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Ive looked at the information that has been provided by the parties, it appears Ls account 
flagged for review and was restricted by HSBC due a number of payments coming into the 
account. As part of their review, HSBC asked L for detailed information about the money in 
its account and where it came from  which theyre entitled to do under their obligations. 
Having reviewed everything, I do think HSBCs requests were reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ultimately it is HSBC who decide what information they do or do not require 
as part of a review and they have a duty to protect their customers money and understand 
where it came from. Because of that, I cant fairly conclude HSBC acted inappropriately 
when it blocked Ls account and asked Mr A to provide information.
I understand Mr A wants HSBC to explain the reason it applied the block to Ls account in 
the first place. Mr A says he is willing to provide the bank with whatever information it 
requires to unblock the account  it just has to ask him. But HSBC doesnt disclose to its 
customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under no obligation to tell Mr A the 
reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say 
its done anything wrong by not giving Mr A this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to require it do so. But I want to reassure Mr A that Ive looked at all the information 
provided by him and HSBC, and there is nothing that would lead me to conclude L has been 
treated unfairly. 
From looking at the evidence, I can see that Ls account is still blocked  meaning Mr A on 
behalf of L, is unable to use it. I do accept that it has now been blocked for over a year. But I 
do not consider that it would be right for me to conclude it should not have taken in excess of 
any particular or specific timeframe. Because the bank was entitled  as a matter of principle 
 to do what it did. Im also satisfied from looking at the available information that the bank 
has been proactive in completing its review since it blocked Ls account. So, I cant say 
HSBC has treated L unfairly in taking the time it has to complete its review.
Finally, Ive also thought about what Mr A has said in relation to the health issues he faced 
personally due to this situation. Even if I were to uphold Ls complaint, I cant consider any 
impact to Mr A as an individual  because he is a separate legal entity to L. And in the 
circumstances of this complaint, L is HSBCs customer. So, while Im sorry to hear of the 
difficulties Mr A faced personally, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on them.
In summary, I understand that L has been inconvenienced by HSBCs actions. But for the 
reasons Ive set out, I dont think the bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances. So, I dont require it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman