DRN-4192447
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zopa Bank Limited are pursuing him for a £13,000 loan that he says 
was taken out as part of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part. She said that Mr S had given 
scammers personal information that enabled them to take out the loan. And she said it was 
reasonable for Zopa to hold Mr S liable for the capital amount of £13,000 as Mr S was more 
than likely aware of the loan after he said he received the application confirmation e-mail and 
the funds, before he then transferred the funds to the scammers. So, she felt the fairest thing 
to do would be to only hold Mr S liable for the capital sum of £13,000. And that Zopa couldnt 
ask Mr S to repay any interest and charges. 
Mr S accepted that he was aware of the loan after it was taken out by the scammers but said 
due to his personal circumstances it was very difficult to pay back the loan. 
Zopa disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said it hadnt seen any evidence 
that the loan was taken out as a consequence of a scam. So, it maintained that Mr S should 
be deemed liable for the full outstanding amount of the loan  including interest and charges. 
I reviewed the complaint and said I was minded to ask Zopa to clear the interest and 
charges on the loan and that Mr S should repay the capital amount of £13,000. 
Zopa hasnt responded any further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint in part. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Im satisfied Zopa didnt do anything wrong when it accepted the loan here. The fraudster 
was able to obtain Mr Ss personal details in order to pass the checks that Zopa reasonably 
carried out.
The issue here is that when Mr S received the application confirmation e-mail and funds into 
his account, he spoke to the scammer and then transferred the money to them. That means 
that Mr S subsequently benefited from the loan in that he was happy to accept liability for it 
under the premise of repaying it with the profits he was promised (albeit that this wasnt 
going to happen due to him falling victim to a scam). So, I think that Zopa asking him for that 
money to be paid back would be fair. 
However, the investigator has correctly pointed out that Mr S never agreed to the terms and 
conditions of the loan. That means he cant be held to the terms of an agreement he didnt 
enter into and so Zopa cannot ask him to repay any interest and charges or fees associated 
with the loan. As a result, I believe Zopa should also remove any record of the loan and 
negative payment history from Mr Ss credit file. 
I note Mr S has been struggling financially due to losing his job, as well as suffering with his 
mental health. So, Zopa should treat Mr S fairly and reasonably when discussing any 
financial repayment plans in the future. 
Putting things right
Zopa is entitled to receive the capital sum back from Mr S (£13,000) but it cannot fairly 
charge Mr S interest or charges. It should also remove any record of the loan from Mr Ss 
credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Zopa Bank Limited can ask Mr S to 
repay the capital sum of £13,000. But it cannot add any interest or charges to the loan. And 
it must remove the loan from Mr Ss credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman