DRN-2074283
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed his account with inadequate 
notice, gave him misleading and incorrect information, charged him interest after his account 
was closed, and kept him on the phone for hours over the course of numerous calls during 
which the staff were rude and unhelpful.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr M spoke to NatWest on the phone about his overdraft, and told them he 
would be unable to make any payments into his account for a couple of months. He was told 
that no action would be taken against him for another couple of months, but not long 
afterwards NatWest told him it was closing his account. It is not in dispute that what he was 
told on the phone was incorrect, and NatWest apologised for misleading him.
Mr M complains that he was expected to pay back his overdraft balance immediately (this 
was more than £1,200). He was worried about his account being defaulted, and on the day 
he repaid the balance (in October) he called NatWest about this, and he says he was told 
that his account had already been defaulted. Two days later he was told that the account 
had not been defaulted after all. Mr M complains about that, and about other inconsistencies 
in what he was told by bank staff. He says that in the course of several phone calls and a 
branch visit he was kept waiting for hours. He also complains that interest had continued to 
be charged after his account was closed.
NatWest upheld Mr Ms complaint about inconsistent information and about being kept 
waiting, and apologised for those issues. It did not offer him compensation, so Mr M brought 
this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said the account terms and conditions 
allowed the bank to close the account without notice or with less notice than usual in certain 
circumstances, and the bank did not have to tell its customer which of those reasons 
applied. As overdrafts are repayable on demand, NatWest had been entitled to demand 
immediate repayment. Some contradictory information had been given in the phone calls 
about how long Mr M had in which to repay his overdraft before his account would be 
defaulted, but this had worked in Mr Ms favour, because it had resulted in him being given a 
longer grace period than he had originally been allowed. She couldnt see that Mr M had 
complained to NatWest about interest being charged, so until he did that this Service would 
have no jurisdiction to consider that point.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review this case. He said the investigator had overlooked 
some of his points and his evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
NatWests terms and conditions do allow an account to be closed without the usual notice 
period (which is 60 days) in certain circumstances. They do not include any obligation to tell 
the customer which of those circumstances applies. However, NatWest provided us with its 
reasons (in confidence), and I accept that its decision was made in good faith and in 
compliance with the terms and conditions. I regret that its not possible for me to say more 
than that about that issue.
In fact, the account was still kept open for long enough for Mr M to repay the outstanding 
overdraft balance in full 56 days after he was notified of NatWests decision to close his 
account. So not officially being given the usual full notice period of 60 days doesnt seem to 
have prevented him from repaying the overdraft in time to avoid a default, nor did it compel 
him to repay the money more than four days earlier than he would otherwise have had to 
repay it.
A default notice was issued to Mr Ms old address in August, but this was not pursued 
further, and in October he repaid the balance in full. Mr M did not receive that notice, having 
already moved to a new address, but he says that on the day he settled his account he was 
told on the phone that a default had already been applied; this information was incorrect, and 
he was told two days later that there had been no default. However, NatWest has no record 
of any such call. I have listened to the recordings of the October phone calls, and I have not 
heard one in which he was told that the account had already been defaulted, nor is there any 
record of him having been told that in the banks contact notes.
While it is unfortunate that Mr M spent so much time on the phone, I think it was his choice 
to keep calling the bank. He received the banks first final response letter at the end of 
August, and most of the phone calls were made after that. Although NatWest accepts that it 
gave him poor service on the calls, I think its apology was enough, and I dont intend to 
award further compensation for that issue.
I have seen no evidence that Mr M has ever complained to NatWest about interest being 
charged after the account was closed, or during the period after he was told it would be 
closed, so I have no jurisdiction to consider that issue. If I had seen any evidence of interest 
being wrongfully charged, I would have forwarded it to NatWest and asked it to look into the 
matter, but I have seen nothing (and in particular, nothing in the account statement) to 
suggest that this is necessary.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman