DRN-2362875
The complaint
Mr K complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Evergreen 
Finance London Limited, trading at the time as MoneyBoat.co.uk. Mr K says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to MoneyBoat throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mr K took out 3 loans from MoneyBoat between September 2017 and 
April 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Ks borrowing with MoneyBoat, based on the 
information it provided to us:
Taken Out Repaid Loan Amount InstalmentsRepayment 
Amount
1 25/09/2017 22/11/2017 £200.00 2 £137
2 15/01/2018 28/03/2018 £600.00 6 £169
3 10/04/2018Not fully 
repaid£1,000.00 6 £292
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 2 onwards. MoneyBoat disagreed with this and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Ks complaint.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to ensure that Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken into 
account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment 
amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether the repayments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan repayments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr 
K could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MoneyBoat carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr K, including assessing 
his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that all this information showed that he 
would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing to. There doesnt seem to be 
any dispute about the complaint regarding the first loan, which our adjudicator said ought not 
to be upheld.
However, for loan number 2, I think that for a number of reasons, MoneyBoat should have 
seen that this was likely to be unsustainable. 
Even though Ive mentioned above, about the length of the lending relationship being 
relevant, Im afraid this doesnt mean a business wider responsibilities dont matter. In this 
case, for example, I see MoneyBoat did carry out a fairly comprehensive credit check on the 
same day as agreeing to lend Mr K money. And having done so, it isnt acceptable, in my 
view, to simply ignore what that information revealed. We know that for loan 2 Mr K had 
initially applied for more money (£1,400) and this was reduced by MoneyBoat to £600. So, 
clearly this indicates that MoneyBoat had certain reservations about lending to Mr K. The 
credit checks should have substantially added to those reservations, because they showed 
Mr K was heavily indebted to other lenders and had been regularly seeking more credit over 
the recent few months.
His loan 2 application with MoneyBoat was for quite a bit more money. And MoneyBoats 
assertion that the checks it carried out were simply automated doesnt fit with it refusing to 
lend him £1,400, but still being willing to lend £600. 
Overall, I think any reasonable assessment of the credit checks MoneyBoat carried out on 
the same day it lent to him should have revealed that he was in financial difficulties and the 
loan was likely to add to his already significant indebtedness. The checks showed that a 
number of credit accounts had been opened in his name in the previous 6 months and in my 
view, these are highly likely to have been short-term loans, given the high number. Also, 
there was evidence of well over 10 credit searches made in the last 3 months, again a 
further indication Mr K was regularly seeking more credit from different lenders. So I dont 
think he should have been lent this money for loan 2 and MoneyBoats checks clearly 
revealed this.For the final loan  loan number 3  I can see substantial evidence pointing to this being 
unsustainable. Mr K had experienced problems paying loan 2 by this point and as well as 
missing payments on that loan, there seems to have been a dialogue between the parties 
about emerging financial hardship. I therefore dont think loan 3 was sustainable either.
Putting things right
I understand part of loan 3 still remains outstanding. In order to put things right for Mr K 
MoneyBoat should:
refund all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3 and treat any payments 
Mr K made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Ks loan 3 account as Ive directed results in him effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then MoneyBoat should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement; 
if reworking Mr Ks loan 3 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
MoneyBoat can use the total refund to offset this. And if there is still an outstanding 
capital balance then I would remind it that it should take a sympathetic view when 
seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr K for the remaining capital;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to loans 2 
and 3;
if MoneyBoat has sold any debt it should attempt to buy it back or otherwise ensure 
these directions are strictly complied with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr K a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ks complaint and I direct Evergreen Finance London Limited to put 
things right for Mr K as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman