The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that TSB Bank Plc closed their joint account without notice.
Background
In March 2018 Mr S tried to make a payment online to a third party. He received an error 
message stating the payment may not have been successful. Mr S was unhappy because 
he feels the message should have clearly stated whether the payment had been made. So, 
he contacted TSB to discuss this.
Mr S made several calls on 16 March, 21 March and 22 March 2018. He says he spoke 
to various members of staff and all his calls were terminated. Mr S felt he wasnt being 
listened to and this caused him a lot of distress.
On 25 March 2018, TSB wrote to Mr S and told them their account would be closed with 
immediate effect. Mr S has said this has now impacted his wife, Mrs S, as their joint account 
was also closed. He feels TSB has targeted him as it didnt wish to deal with his complaints. 
Mr and Mrs S want to be compensated for the trouble and upset they have experienced.
TSB has said it is satisfied it closed the account fairly and acted in line with its terms and 
conditions. Mr and Mrs remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she didnt agree with TSB. She felt there 
wasnt enough evidence to conclude Mr S had acted in a way which meant TSB could close 
the account without notice. And due to the impact this also had on Mrs S, she felt £250 
compensation should be paid to them for the trouble it had caused. 
TSB didnt agree. It said that Mrs S still had a current account open, and this didnt appear to 
be used for day to day expenditure, which indicated she had an account elsewhere. TSB 
asked for the complaint to be passed to me to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, But I dont agree with the compensation 
amount which has been offered. I notified both parties about the slight change in 
compensation and both parties responded. I will explain my reasoning below. 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with it. But before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions say:
DRN-1041009We may end this agreement (or any account or service under it):
(a) By writing to you and giving you 2 months notice; or
(b) Immediately if:
(i) You are, or we reasonably consider you may be
3. Behaving improperly (for example, in a threatening or abusive manner)
So, the matter for me to decide is if Mr and Mrs S account should have been closed 
immediately or with two months notice. 
I accept that TSB hasnt been able to provide call recordings due to a system update which 
took place in 2018. So, I have considered the contact notes it has provided. And I cant see 
any note which suggests that Mr S was abusive or threatening - but I have seen a note on 
one occasion which says Mr S did swear. But given there were over 15 calls made by Mr S 
with several different agents, I think its reasonable to suggest that if Mr S had demonstrated 
such behaviour (to the extent that his account should be closed with immediate effect) it 
would have been or should have been noted on the system notes. So, without that 
information I cant say with any certainty that Mr S acted in that manner.
The contact notes state on more than one occasion that the calls were terminated due to the 
conversation going around in circles. It is not within my power to tell TSB what it should or 
shouldnt tolerate in regard to a customers behaviour, before they deem termination of a call 
to be appropriate, this is a commercial decision which they are entitled to make. However, as 
I stated above, if Mr S had been abusive or threatening I do think it would be reasonable to 
have told him that was the reason the call was being terminated. I say this because it would 
have been an accurate reflection of what had happened on the call and it would have given 
him the opportunity to rectify that behaviour and ensure it didnt continue. 
But I cant see that information was provided to Mr S on any of the calls that took place. So 
with that in mind I think it would have been fair for TSB to have given Mr and Mrs S two 
months notice that it was going to close their account. This would have limited the upset  Mr 
and Mrs S experienced (when clearly Mr S was already quite distressed with the service 
TSB had provided) and allowed them an opportunity to make alternative arrangements. 
I understand that TSB has said they have the authority to close the account without notice 
(due to improper behaviour) as it is in the terms and conditions. But as I have already stated, 
from the contact notes, I cant see that Mr S acted in this way.
While I appreciate the point TSB has made in relation to their account not being used for 
day to day banking (and I have considered this in regards to the award I am making for 
trouble and upset) this doesnt depart from the fact that I dont think TSB acted fairly relying 
on the term it has for closing the account with immediate effect. And so, TSB should 
compensate Mr and Mrs S for the trouble and upset it caused.
Originally the investigator offered £250. I notified both parties that I thought £150 was more 
appropriate. Mr S didnt agree. He said he had lost the opportunity to benefit from incentives 
offered by other banks to transfer his account. And that their joint account was used for 
every day expenses, such as utility bills and to pay their credit card. And while I have 
considered these points, I am aware that Mrs S sole account was still open with TSB. And 
while Mr S has explained he has missed out on the incentives other banks were offering 
there is no evidence to suggest these would have materialised. So, Im considering the actual impact it had on Mr and Mrs S when TSB closed their account without notice. And I 
am satisfied that £150 is appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint and TSB Bank plc should pay 
them £150 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman