DRN-4018736
The complaint
Ms P complains about the advice given by Broom Consultants Ltd (Broom) to transfer the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension 
arrangement. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Ms P met with Broom in October 2007, following an introduction from another advice firm, to 
discuss her DB pension and the possibility of accessing her benefits early to realise a cash 
lump sum. 
Broom completed a fact-find to gather information about Ms Ps circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Ms P was divorced; she had no 
dependents; she rented her home; and she was looking to release funds from her pension to 
allow her to pursue a change in career, buy a car, repay some debts and fund a holiday. 
Broom also carried out an assessment of Ms Ps attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
aggressive. 
On 1 November 2007 Broom advised Ms P to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension arrangement. The suitability report said the reason for this recommendation was 
that, the adviser believed a transfer was consistent with Ms Ps attitude to risk, despite the 
fact that based solely on the required growth rates the advice would be to remain in the DB 
scheme. 
 
Ms P duly accepted the recommendation and in December 2007 around £80,000 was 
transferred to her new personal pension arrangement and Ms P received her maximum tax-
free cash entitlement.
Broom carried out annual reviews of Ms Ps plan in 2010, 2012 and 2013. In 2015 Ms Ps 
plan was changed from a capped drawdown to a flexi-access drawdown plan. And in 2019 
Ms Ps pension provider wrote to her to confirm that her pension fund was exhausted.
In 2021 Ms P complained to Broom, using the services of a representative, about the 
suitability of the transfer advice. Ms P believes the advice she received was negligent given 
her circumstances at the time and has suffered a loss as a result. 
Broom didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
In summary it said:
It took account of Ms Ps background including her circumstances and objectives. 
It assessed her attitude to risk, which Ms P agreed was aggressive.
Ms P had a clear aim to generate a lump sum without an income, and without any 
savings she had limited choices other than releasing money from her pension to 
meet her objective.
While Ms Ps attitude to risk was assessed as aggressive, due to her capacity for 
loss it was downgraded and the fund selection was worked on alongside Ms Ps own 
adviser.
 It carried out reviews in the early years with Ms P, but despite its best efforts, Ms P 
ignored its requests to provide ongoing advice and she made further withdrawals 
without its advice. 
Ms P then referred her complaint to our service. Broom objected to out consideration of the 
complaint because it said it had been brought out of time. An investigator looked at this and 
they said they didnt think Ms P had brought her complaint out of time. They said it wouldve 
been difficult for Ms P to make any meaningful comparison with the information she received 
from her provider in the form of annual statements with the information she received from 
her DB scheme trustees at the time of the advice. They didnt think Brooms annual reviews 
wouldve given any reason for Ms P to question the original advice and they werent 
persuaded by Brooms argument that it was in 2015 when she ought to have known there 
was a problem when she failed to respond to its letter telling her to seek advice following the 
conversion of her plan from a capped to a flexi-access drawdown plan. They also didnt think 
depleting her plan in 2019 was a trigger point  albeit they said Mr P complained within three 
years of this happening anyway.
The investigator went on and upheld the complaint and required Broom to pay 
compensation. In summary they didnt think Broom had gathered sufficient information from 
Ms P to make a recommendation  there was no information about Ms Ps debts she said 
she wanted to repay, there was no income and expenditure picture and no assessment of 
what her pension income needs were. They said transferring wasnt in Ms Ps best interests 
from a financial viability perspective because she was unlikely to improve on the benefits she 
was entitled to from her DB scheme. They also didnt think Ms Ps attitude to risk was 
aggressive and they pointed to the relatively simple assessment Broom had carried out in 
reaching this conclusion. Finally they said that Ms Ps objective of wanting a lump sum 
wasnt explored in any great detail and was simply taken at face value.
Broom disagreed albeit it didnt provide a detailed explanation as to why. It said it believes 
the advice was suitable and wants the ombudsman to consider all the points made in its final 
response letter to Ms P.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
The jurisdiction of this complaint  why Ive decided it has been brought in time
The relevant time limits for bringing a complaint to this service are set out in the Dispute
Resolution (DISP) section of the FCAs handbook at DISP 2.8. It is these time limits I must
apply when considering if Mrs Ks complaint was brought in time.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or
(2) more than:(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of 
the complaint having been received;
Its not disputed that Ms Ps complaint was referred to this service more than six years after
the event shes complaining about - the advice she received to transfer her DB scheme
benefits in December 2007.
But the three-year period set out at DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially extend the deadline
for complaining, depending on when a complainant become aware, or ought to reasonably
have become aware, they had cause for complaint. So, Ive considered when Ms P was
aware, or when she ought reasonably to have been aware, she had cause to complain.
The crux of Ms Ps complaint is that the advice was unsuitable for her  she had no 
investment experience and her capacity for loss was low. Shes said that Broom told her she 
could expect growth in excess of what would occur if she retained her benefits in the DB 
scheme.
In my view, it is often difficult in DB transfer cases to establish the point at which the 
consumer ought reasonably to have been aware they had cause for complaint. And I dont 
think things are any different here.
At the time of the advice in 2007, Ms P wouldve received a deferred benefit statement, 
which showed her preserved pension at the date of leaving. It might also have given some 
information about the likely estimate of what Ms Ps pension would be at her normal 
retirement age taking account of inflationary increases. But I dont know the extent to which 
this information was clearly set out because Ive not seen a copy of this  it doesnt appear 
to be available. So while I think its reasonable to expect Ms P to have read this statement at 
the time, I dont know the extent to which she understood what she was going to get from 
her pension at retirement if she remained in her DB scheme. And this is the basis on which 
Ms P would be able to make any future comparison of her income. Im mindful here that I 
dont think Ms P was particularly financially sophisticated at the time or well-versed in the 
subject of pensions. 
Ms P wouldve likely received copies of the annual pension statements sent to Broom from 
her pension provider. And these wouldve shown her a fund value and projections of the 
income she could likely expect. I dont think the fund value and any changes to this over time 
wouldve been meaningful for Ms P. And while the likely income projections would be 
meaningful because its not clear to me what figure Ms P wouldve likely had in mind for the 
pension her DB scheme would provide, Im not persuaded these statements wouldve 
provided her with a useful income comparison that might reasonably have alerted her to the 
fact there was a problem with the advice she received. 
I can see that Broom invited Ms P to annual reviews and that she accepted three of them, 
which were carried out in 2010, 2012 and 2013. But looking at the paperwork Broom has 
provided for these, Ive not seen anything that says or suggests there was a problem with 
the original transfer advice she received, or that it was reasonable for Ms P to have believed 
there was. The conclusion reached in these reviews was that Ms Ps attitude to risk 
remained the same as did her need for maximum income, so things would continue based on her current investment strategy. The fact that Ms P didnt attend all of the annual reviews 
does not in my view demonstrate an awareness that something might have gone wrong.
In 2015 I can see that Ms Ps pension plan was changed from a capped to a flexi-access 
drawdown plan and she withdrew a sum of money without advice. Broom says that it wrote 
to Ms P around this time in which it explained the need for advice and it offered to bring 
forward the annual review. Broom says Ms P didnt respond. It says that Ms Ps actions 
show that she was not managing her money and she shouldve realised there was a problem 
at this time.
But again, Im not persuaded that Ms Ps failure to respond to a request for advice leads me 
to believe that she ought reasonably to have realised there was a problem with the original 
transfer advice she received. Broom hasnt provided a copy of the letter it says it sent to 
Ms P, but I find it unlikely it wouldve said or indicated there was a problem, which ought to 
have prompted Ms P into realising she had cause for complaint.
In 2019 I can see that Ms Ps pension fund was exhausted. Unlike the investigator, I do think 
this is the point Ms P ought to have realised there was a problem. If Ms P had remained in 
her DB scheme it wouldve paid out an income for life and I think Ms P wouldve reasonably 
understood this at the time. So when her pension fund was exhausted and it couldnt pay her 
an income, she ought to have realised at this point that something might have gone wrong. 
But because Ms P complained in 2021, which is within three years of this happening, Im 
satisfied her complaint has been brought in time and it is one that we can consider.
The merits of the complaint  what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Broom's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold it for 
largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Broom 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Ms Ps best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in her best interests.
Before I set out my detailed reasoning, I can see that Broom wants me to consider all the 
points made in its final response letter to Ms P. But I will deal with the points that I consider 
are necessary and appropriate in reaching my decision about what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And this may, or may not, include the points Broom it 
made in its final response letter.
Financial viability 
Broom carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Ms Ps pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Ms P was 53 at the time of the advice. Broom doesnt appear to have recorded what age Ms 
P intended to retire  the recommendation letter simply said she anticipated retiring early. 
The analysis Broom carried out was based on Ms Ps DB scheme benefits at her schemes 
normal retirement age of 60 and early retirement at age 55. The critical yield required to 
match Ms Ps benefits at age 60 was 14% if she took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. 
At age 55 the critical yield was 34%.
This compares with the discount rate of 5.8% per year for six years to retirement in this case 
(retirement age of 60) or 5.6% for one year to retirement (retirement at 55.) For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection 
rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Ms Ps 
assessed aggressive attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would 
be little point in Ms P giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 14%, I think Ms P was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. The growth rate required was more than twice the discount rate and 
significantly higher than the regulators upper projection rate.
Broom assessed Ms Ps attitude to risk as aggressive. But I have some serious concerns 
about how Broom arrived at this. The risk assessment appears to have been based on a 
questionnaire containing eight questions. But in my view it was rudimentary and it did not 
take into account Ms Ps individual circumstances. 
For example Ms P was 53, her retirement was looming, she had no or minimal investment 
knowledge or experience, and this pension represented a significant part of her overall future pension provision. So I think its clear that her capacity for loss was low. Taking all of this 
into account, which is what I think Broom ought reasonably to have done, I think a cautious 
or low attitude to risk was more appropriate here and more in line with the level of risk I think 
Ms P was reasonably prepared to take with her pension.
Given this, I think it was clear Ms P was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower
overall value than those provided by her DB scheme if she transferred to a person pension 
arrangement, as a result of investing in line with a low or cautious attitude to risk. Because of 
the required sustained growth rate, I think its evident the transfer was not compatible with 
Ms Ps attitude to risk. To have come close to achieving the level of growth needed, in my 
view it would have required Ms P to take significant risk and a higher level of risk than I think 
she was prepared to take. 
So for this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Ms Ps best interests. 
And interestingly I can see this is the conclusion Broom reached in its advice as set out in 
the suitability report. The adviser said here that based on the required yield alone, they 
would recommend that Ms P leave her benefits in the DB scheme. But they went on to say 
that based on their analysis of the retirement planning questionnaire (Ms Ps broad 
objectives) and discussions with Ms P, they felt a transfer was compatible with Ms Ps 
attitude to risk.
Notwithstanding the fact that I dont think the way Brooms suitability report is worded 
conveys a positive recommendation to transfer, based on my findings above that I dont think 
Ms P was prepared to take an aggressive investment approach with her pension, I disagree 
a transfer was consistent with her attitude to risk. But I accept that financial viability isnt the 
only consideration when giving transfer advice - there might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. And I assume Broom 
believes this is the case given the suitability reports reference to Ms Ps objectives. Ive 
considered this below.
Flexibility - access to a cash lump sum
It appears that the key reason Ms P wanted to transfer her pension and why Broom 
recommended it, was because she wanted access to the maximum possible cash lump sum 
to fund a new career. Broom recorded that Ms P needed £19,000 for a new car, to repay 
some debts and to help start her business.
But Im not persuaded that Broom has clearly demonstrated that transferring the benefits 
from Ms Ps DB pension scheme to a flexible personal pension arrangement to achieve 
things was in her best interests. I say this because the figure of £19,000 appears to have 
been arrived at solely on the basis that this broadly represented the maximum amount of 
tax-free cash available to Ms P. There is no evidence that Broom interrogated this figure to 
establish and understand if this was truly the amount Ms P needed. The fact-find Broom 
completed can at best, in my view, be described as sparse. For example there is no 
breakdown of how much Ms P needed for a car, what costs were involved in helping start 
her business, and crucially Broom does not appear to have understood what debts Ms P 
wanted to repay. 
So Broom didnt know the amount of the outstanding debt, the nature of it, the term, whether 
it needed to be repaid (no income and expenditure analysis was carried out.) In the liabilities 
section of the fact-find, Broom simply recorded: other adviser dealing. 
In my view, without understanding this important information, Broom was not in a position to 
determine whether it was in Ms P best interests to make the irreversible decision to transfer 
her guaranteed pension benefits to an arrangement that was not guaranteed, to achieve 
things. 
Furthermore Broom appears to have made no attempt to explore the alternatives that might 
have been available to Ms P. For example, it might have been possible for Ms P to borrow 
some or all of the money she needed and/or to restructure her outstanding debt. Did Ms P 
need a new car immediately or could this wait? Was it possible for Ms P to delay some of 
her expenditure plans until age 55 when she could take the benefits from her DB scheme 
early (I understand Ms P didnt qualify for immediate ill health early retirement.) I think Broom 
ought reasonably to have considered these things before going ahead and recommending 
Ms P transfer out of her guaranteed pension.
Income need
In my view Brooms advice centred solely on Ms Ps immediate and short-term needs. 
Ms Ps DB pension was designed to provide her with an income in retirement, yet Broom 
made no attempt to establish her future income need. The advice paperwork simply said: 
You stated that you anticipate retiring early and are happy to accept a lower pension. But 
what that lower pension was, wasnt determined. I accept its possible that Ms Ps 
retirement income need couldnt be satisfied solely by her DB scheme income, but I think 
she stood a better chance of achieving her future retirement income need by retaining her 
guaranteed and escalating income available through her DB scheme.
Overall I dont think Broom did enough here to show that it was in Ms Ps best interests to 
transfer her pension benefits to a flexible arrangement to enable her to access her tax-free 
cash earlier than her normal scheme retirement age and the leave the remainder invested 
until a later date.
Death benefits
Although Broom did not specifically refer to the lump sum death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension arrangement as a reason for the transfer, I have nevertheless considered 
this because the advice paperwork referred to Ms P wanting flexibility to decide how benefits 
were paid in terms of a spouses and dependants pension. 
Ms P was divorced, so I accept the spouses pension available through her DB scheme 
wouldnt have been important to her at this time. So Ms P might have thought it was a good 
idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of the flexibility it provided in 
this regard. But the priority here was to advise Ms P about what was best for her retirement 
provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide an income in retirement  not as a 
legacy planning tool. So I dont think different death benefits available through a personal 
pension was a compelling reason to transfer and justified the likely decrease of retirement 
benefits for Ms P.
Suitability of investments
I think Broom recommended that Ms P invest in unsuitable funds based on what I consider 
her true attitude to risk was at the time.
But because Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Ms P, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Ms P shouldve been advised to remain in the 
DB scheme - so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
SummaryI dont doubt that the availability of a cash lump sum,  flexibility and control on offer through a 
personal pension arrangement wouldve sounded like attractive features to Ms P. But Broom 
wasnt there to just transact what Ms P might have thought she wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Ms P needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Ms P was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Ms P was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. In my view Ms P shouldnt have been advised to transfer 
out of the scheme just to meet a short-term objective that Broom didnt properly grasp the 
extent of or explore whether there were other realistic alternative ways of achieving things.
So, I think Broom shouldve advised Ms P to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Ms P would've gone ahead anyway, against Broom's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully - but Im not persuaded that Ms P wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Brooms advice. I say this because Ms P was an 
inexperienced investor, who in my view neither possessed the requisite skill, knowledge nor 
confidence to go against the advice they were given. I believe Ms P was a cautious investor 
and this pension accounted for the majority of her retirement provision. So, if Broom had 
provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in her best interests to risk her guaranteed pension to achieve a short-term need, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I think she wouldve accepted that advice  so 
I dont think Ms P would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Broom should compensate Ms P for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms P, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Ms P would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Broom must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, if suitable advice had been given and Ms P had remained in her DB scheme, 
given her circumstances I think she wouldve most likely taken early retirement and 
accessed her benefits at age 55. So, compensation should be based on her taking benefits 
at this age.
This calculation should be carried using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be 
undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Ms Ps acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Broom should:always calculate and offer Ms P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Ms P before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Ms P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Ms P accepts Brooms offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Ms P for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Ms Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Ms P as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Broom may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Ms Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Broom Consultants Ltd 
to pay Ms P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Broom Consultants Ltd to pay Ms P any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Broom 
Consultants Ltd to pay Ms P any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Broom Consultants Ltd pays Ms P the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms P.
If Ms P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Broom Consultants Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman