DRN-2843563
The complaint
 Mr W complains that Towergate Financial (East) Limited (trading at the time as M2 
Financial) failed to treat him fairly when it provided advice about the transfer of pension 
benefits in 2007.
 
What happened
 Mr W was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). He had a pension fund of 
£86,265 and was offered an enhanced payment of £66,708.62 which increased his overall 
transfer value to £152,973. He engaged Towergate, who were called M2 Financial Limited at 
the time, to advise him on his options for his retirement planning.
Towergate carried out a fact find, and a transfer value analysis and suitability report were 
prepared by an adviser on 13 July 2007. It provided Mr W with his options and compared 
benefits held within his OPS with alternative personal pensions. The adviser made 
recommendations based on Mr Ws personal circumstances at the time, which were:
At the time of transferring he was aged 47.
He was married with two dependants.
He had a joint monthly income of £2640.
He had total assets of £213,000 and total liability of £30,000.
His attitude to risk was recorded as five which means he was viewed as a balanced 
investor.
His main objectives were providing for a spouses and dependents pension, security 
of his pension fund and the ability to retire early.
The suitability report offered three options:
1.To transfer benefits and an additional payment away from the OPS into an alternative
registered pension scheme of your choice.
2. To transfer benefits away from the OPS into an alternative registered pension
scheme and take the additional payment as a cash lump sum.
3. Leave the benefits within the OPS.
The adviser then explained M2s critical yield traffic light system. He found Mr W fell
Under its Amber category as he had a critical yield of 6.3% and a balanced attitude to risk.
An amber combination meant that M2 wouldnt recommend a transfer unless the pension
holder gave a serious consideration to all aspects of his retirement plan. Based on Mr
Ws answer to the transfer questionnaire, the adviser felt that it was potentially better for
Mr W to transfer out of his pension and stated:
I have explained to you and you have understood and accepted the fact that you may end
up being worse off at retirement if the underlying investment funds do not achieve the
required critical yield. Strictly on this assessment, I confirm it is my recommendation you 
transfer out of the PSA scheme.
On 23 July 2007, Mr W sent a letter to the adviser, it said:
I would prefer to take a cash lump sum and transfer the rest over to. (a third-party provider). 
I realise that this was not one of your recommendations, however, the money would be really 
useful at the moment to put my daughter through college and it would also provide a useful 
buffer for myself as at the moment (as) I am only on a temporary contract. 
The adviser then proceeded to facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis.
On 9 January 2020, Towergate wrote to Mr W to advise him it had carried out a review of the 
advice given in 2007. It said:
whilst we have concluded that you were not placed in an entirely informed position overall, 
we are satisfied that the course of action you selected was not impacted in this instance.
Mr W was very unhappy with this outcome and complained to Towergate on 29 January 
2020 about he advice he had received.
On 24 March 2020, Towergate issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It 
says it proceeded with the transfer on an insistent customer basis.
Mr W remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr W. At first the business objected to this service 
looking into the merits of this complaint, but later withdrew its objection.
She disagreed with Towergate and upheld Mr Ws complaint. In summary she said:
She found Towergate had advised Mr W to leave his OPS (page 10 suitability report)
Although, the letter from Mr W dated July 2007, suggested he was an insistent client, 
she felt this was influenced by the recommendation to transfer
She didnt feel Mr W had been provided with all the information he needed to make 
an informed decision and Towergate had accepted this
Mr W had said he wanted to retire at age 60, but the projections were carried out to 
age 65, which meant the growth rates required were not accurate
Mr W has said he wasnt aware of the risks of transferring and Towergate has 
acknowledged it wasnt clear if all the risks had been explained
Whilst acknowledging Mr W had said he wanted to release funds for his daughters 
education, there was insufficient evidence to show he was making an informed 
decision and so had he been aware of all the risks and implications, it wasnt clear he 
would have made the same decision.
Overall, the investment return required to provide the same funds as the OPS at 
retirement meant that either age 60 or 65, it was likely Mr W would receive lower 
retirement benefits than if he stayed in the OPS, and so a recommendation to 
transfer couldnt be justified
Mr W was incorrectly processed as an insistent customerIn her view, she found a fair outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. She considered 
he would have remained in the OPS, had he been given the correct information. Towergate
should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
methodology, as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), in October 2017.
Towergate disagreed with the investigators view. It finds this case to be of a unique 
scenario. It says Mr W proceed on an insistent customer basis and in all such previous 
cases this service has not upheld these cases. It says given the emerging trends on 
outcomes and the unique characteristics of this cases, it asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In deciding this complaint Ive considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that have 
been made by Mr W and by Towergate. 
The advice Mr W is complaining about was provided almost 15 years ago. Whilst I am sure 
that Mr W has given us his complete and honest recollections of what happened, I must be 
mindful that over such an extended period even the most careful of memories can, and do, 
fade. So, where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do 
have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or 
should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I have looked closely at the suitability report and the recommendations contained within it.
The three most important things to Mr W, as detailed on page 6 of the report so far as his 
retirement planning is concerned were:
1. Providing a spouses or dependents pension on death before retirement
2. To ensure the security of his pension in terms of its funding
3. To ensure Mr W would have the ability to retire early
All these three important objectives could have been achieved if Mr W remained within the 
OPS.  So, Ive looked to see if there is a financial benefit to transferring away by carrying out 
a Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) report.
In summary, this said that in order to match the full pension benefits of the OPS at normal
retirement age, as shown on the TVAS report provided, the critical yield required by a 
Personal Pension Plan 6.3% per annum. But, as Towergate has acknowledged the projections were not calculated to age 60 (Mr Ws preferred retirement age) but age 65, so, 
the information regarding the growth needed, wasnt accurate. 
This is important because it changes the yield the personal pension plan would need to 
achieve in order to match the benefits, from 6.3% to 8.5%. It is important to remember that, 
in strict financial terms, any transfer of pension benefits would be in the expectation that the 
transferred benefits would be worth more than if theyd been left in the OPS. A transfer 
moved the investment risk for the pension benefits from the OPS to the consumer. So, given 
one of Mr Ws most important objectives was to retain the security of the fund, this should 
have been clearly explained  and I cant see that was the case.
Towergate then assess Mr W, based upon its traffic light scheme. The report says:
If the critical yield falls between 6% and 7.5% per annum, we would advise that clients 
should only transfer if individual factors such as the potential amount of tax-free cash or 
widow's pension benefits that the particular member has highlighted as being important 
outweighs for that member, the significant risk of the investment funds underlying the new 
pension plan failing to achieve the required critical yield, for a particular member. We
would class this as an "Amber light" and would only advise to transfer if the member was 
content to accept the risk that there was a significant chance, they would be worse off by 
transferring out of the PSA Scheme.
It seems that in deeming Mr W, an Amber rated client, Towergate are arguing that it did 
recommend a transfer away as being potentially suitable but would only proceed if Mr W 
acknowledged there was a risk in taking this course of action and therefore becomes an 
insistent client. In my view, it takes a middle ground, that doesnt exist within the regulatory 
context.
The FCA defines an insistent client as:
a client who has received a personal recommendation (advice) from the business;
who wants to enter into a transaction that is different from that recommended by the
business; and who wants the business to facilitate that transactions.
In this case, Towergate made a recommendation to transfer his OPS to a personal pension 
scheme. Mr W agreed this was how he wanted to proceed, and Towergate facilitated this.
This is further supported by concerns raised by the FCA about cases it reviewed where it 
said: -
not enough was done to try and find alternative ways of meeting the consumers
objectives
the risks associated with the course of action that the consumer wanted to take were
not highlighted.
the insistent client process was a papering exercise and didnt reflect what 
happened
In my view, Towergate hasnt acted fairly here and should put things right.
Putting things right
  A fair outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, into theposition he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Im persuaded Mr W would have
remained in the OPS, had he been given the correct information. 
Towergate Financial (East) Limited should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the pension review methodology, as amended by the FCA in October 2017. This 
calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the
date of the actual calculation.
Towergate should to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr
Whalings contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will consider the impact of leaving the OPS on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr
Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Towergate Financial (East) 
Limited to carry out the redress as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman