DRN-2213533
The complaint
Mr A complains that his broker, Thistle Insurance Services Ltd, failed to inform him that it 
was a requirement of his musicians and instruments insurance policy that he had a security 
inspectorate certified alarm at his premises. He also complains that if hed have needed to 
make a claim then it wouldve been declined. 
What happened
Mr A took his policy out through Thistle in April 2016 with an initial sum insured of £26,000. 
In October 2016 he increased the sum insured to £36,320. The policy renewed in April 2017, 
April 2018 and April 2019 with the same sum insured. In August 2019, Mr A contacted 
Thistle to discuss increasing his sum insured to £49,469. During the call it became apparent 
that Mr A didnt have the required alarm system in place as required by the policy. Mr A told 
Thistle that he had never been told he needed to have an alarm. Mr A didnt proceed with 
the quote hed received to increase his sum insured but he did raise a complaint with Thistle. 
Mr A complained that if hed needed to make a claim then he wouldnt have been covered 
because for the entire time hed had the policy hed not had an alarm at his premises. During 
the initial call with Thistle, it suggested to Mr A that he get some quotes to upgrade his 
current bells only alarm to one that met the standard required by the policy. Mr A did so and 
told Thistle hed been quoted approximately £1,800 to install an adequate system. Thistle 
said itd escalate Mr As complaint to its complaints team to investigate further. 
Thistle issued its final response to Mr As complaint at the start of September 2019. It said 
that if, at any point, hed have needed to make a claim, it wouldve honoured it because it 
hadnt made him aware of the need to have the alarm. For the distress and inconvenience 
itd caused him it paid him compensation of £150. 
Mr A then complained to this service. One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint 
and initially thought it should be upheld. Thistle disagreed with what our investigator said. It 
said itd taken the opportunity to review matters and had launched an updated version of the 
policy Mr A had. It said itd revisited his complaint in line with the new product and conceded 
that its initial investigation had been unsatisfactory. 
As a result, Thistle said itd amended the policy Mr A had renewed with it to reflect that an 
inspectorate certified alarm was un-necessary so long as his sum insured remained below 
£50,000, which it did. It said itd told Mr A that the bells only alarm he had was sufficient for 
the insurance policy. Thistle restated that had a claim been necessary it wouldve met the 
cost of it even if the underwriter had declined to do so. Thistle said itd paid Mr A further 
compensation of £100 taking the total itd paid him to £250. 
Another one of our investigators looked at Mr As complaint again but didnt recommend that 
it was upheld. She thought that Thistle had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr A, I dont think his complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I agree that Thistle made a mistake by failing to tell Mr A in October 2016 (when he 
increased his sum insured) that it was a policy requirement to have an inspectorate certified 
alarm at his premises now that his sum insured exceeded the threshold of £30,000.
I can appreciate that when Mr A found this out almost three years later he felt that if hed had 
to make a claim then it wouldve been declined. Fortunately for Mr A, hes not needed to 
make a theft (or any other type of) claim at any point. So, whilst Thistle made an error, Mr A 
hasnt suffered a financial loss because of it. And Thistle has accepted it made an error and 
has said, should any claim have been declined by the underwriter because Mr A didnt have 
the correct alarm installed, then it wouldve honoured the claim. 
And if Mr A had needed to make a theft claim which was declined by the underwriter as a 
result of Thistles error, and have needed to make a complaint to this service as a result, 
then we wouldve looked at the impact the error had had on Mr A. But, as things are, we 
cant look at something that hasnt happened or make Thistle pay for a financial loss that 
hasnt been suffered. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr A feels that Thistles failure to make the alarm requirement clear to 
him should mean it refunds his premiums, I cant fairly or reasonably agree with him. Mr A 
has had the benefit of the cover for a number of years and should he have needed to make 
a claim under any of the other perils covered by the policy then, subject to the policy terms, 
his policy wouldve indemnified him. 
I can see that Thistle has now updated the type of policy Mr A had so that he was no longer 
required to have an inspectorate certified alarm installed providing his sum insured remains 
below £50,000 (which I understand is currently the case). This means that the bells only 
alarm Mr A has currently installed is sufficient. I note that Mr A did state at one time that 
Thistle had said  because of the mistake itd made - it would pay for him to have the 
upgraded alarm installed but Ive not seen any evidence of that and, in any event, one isnt 
currently needed. And Mr A hasnt been financially disadvantaged in any way by having to 
install one.
Where a financial business causes a consumer un-necessary trouble and upset through its 
words or actions then this service can require it to pay compensation. I can see that Thistle 
has paid Mr A compensation totalling £250 already. I think thats fair in the circumstances of 
Mr As complaint so Im not going to require Thistle to pay him anymore. Indeed, if Mr As 
complaint had passed across my desk without any compensation having already been made 
its unlikely Id have awarded any more than this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Claire WoollersonOmbudsman