DRN-4030867
The complaint
Miss S complains about U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line  UKI)s handling of 
her Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to UKI also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What my final decision covers
Miss S previously complained to UKI about the handling of her claim. UKI provided a final 
response to this in May 2021. UKI provided a second final response to a further complaint 
from Miss S in April 2022. A third complaint was then made by Miss S to UKI around August 
2022. My decision covers events following UKIs final response to Miss Ss first complaint in 
May 2021 up to July 2022. 
Any reference to events outside of these dates is for the purpose of answering this complaint 
only.
I want to assure Miss S Ive read and considered everything shes provided very carefully. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. This isnt intended as a discourtesy.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2023. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Subsidence claims are by nature very inconvenient and can take considerable time
to resolve. However, Ive identified a significant and avoidable lack of progress in the
claim during the time considered for this complaint  which has been caused by
UKIs actions.
UKI have accepted it has caused avoidable delays in the progress of the claim.
Significant issues UKI itself highlighted were in instructing its contractors to validate a
scope of work. A further significant delay occurred regarding the scope of works, with
documentation not being referred  and this not being recognised by UKI for around
five months.
I can also see there have been issues with incorrect reports and correspondence
detailing three drains had been repaired at the property, which later turned out to be
incorrect (only one drain was repaired).
The relationship between Miss M and UKIs contractors had clearly broken down
when she asked UKI to change them. Considering the circumstances and delays
already established, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to have considered this
request - but Ive not seen anything that persuades me it did consider it.
I also consider the additional impact the above has had on Miss M, to what was by
nature an already stressful situation (having an active subsidence claim on her
property).
As of July 2022, Miss S has described the property as continuing to subside, with
further damage presenting itself. Shes also spoken of the impact it had on her day-
to-day life and the concern regarding her children continuing to live in the property.
UKI would have an obligation under the terms of the conditions of the policy to put
Miss S back in the position she would have been in prior to the subsidence occurring.
Meaning it would be obligated to repair any subsidence related damage for a
successful claim. But seeing her home continuing to deteriorate, with ongoing
concerns it was becoming uninhabitable, would be distressing for anybody. And I
think UKIs errors have contributed unnecessarily to this.
While UKI will need to carry out investigations to ensure any work it carries out
resolves the issues and provides a lasting and effective repair, I would remind it, its
obligated to do so in a timely matter. I acknowledge Miss S remains unhappy, and
that she may consider bringing further complaint if issues continue.
Considering what Ive set out above, for the timeframe considered under this
complaint, I think Miss S has been significantly impacted for the reasons Ive set out
above.
In the circumstances, I consider further compensation is required and intend to direct
UKI to pay Miss S £1,600 compensation as I think this fairly reflects the distress and
inconvenience its failures have caused.
I note Miss Ss comments regarding UKI waiving the excess required on her claim.
However, an excess is a standard part of most Insurance policies and is required
when making most claims. This is set out clearly under terms of policy, so I dont
require UKI to waive this.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct U K
Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to pay Miss S £1,600 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI acknowledged it had received my provisional findings. It hasnt provided any further 
comments or evidence for me to consider. But it has asked me to provide a breakdown of 
how Ive reached the amount of compensation I intend to direct it to pay.
Miss S hasnt provided any further comments or evidence for me to consider regarding this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all of the information available again, and as Ive received no further 
comments or evidence to review, my decision and reasoning remain the same as set out in 
provisional decision. As UKI is aware, our approach to compensation isnt formulaic. And Ive clearly set out my 
reasoning and the issues. some of which UKI itself has identified, such as the documentation 
not being referred for around five months, in my provisional findings. 
As I outlined in my provisional decision, I think the impact to Miss S has been significant. 
Miss S has described the property as continuing to subside, with further damage presenting 
itself. Shes spoken of the impact it had on her day- to-day life and the concern regarding her 
children continuing to live in the property.
UKI have an obligation under the terms of the conditions of the policy to put Miss S back in 
the position she would have been in prior to the subsidence occurring. Meaning it would be 
obligated to repair any subsidence related damage for a successful claim. But seeing her 
home continuing to deteriorate, with ongoing concerns it was becoming uninhabitable, would 
be distressing for anybody. And Im satisfied UKIs errors have contributed unnecessarily to 
this.
Therefore, I feel £1,600 compensation is a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
shes been caused because of UKIs actions and mistakes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint.
To put things right I direct U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to pay Miss S £1,600 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman