DRN-3958052
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a bike he has been financing through an agreement with 
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, who Ill call Shop Direct.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I dont think the evidence thats been presented suggests 
its likely this bike was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the bike should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied and that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Ive reviewed the findings of the expert bike technician. His report is inconclusive, but he 
does say that he was unable to find any failed component or manufacturing issue that could 
have caused the front wheel to become detached from the forks. The only issue he noted 
was that the springs for the quick release lever had both been placed on the same side. He 
thought it possible this may have allowed the wheel to escape the fork dropout safety device 
that prevents wheel detaching from the bike if the quick release releases.
Mr P has provided photographs of the bike after he had assembled it. They suggest that, at 
least initially, the quick release lever springs were correctly placed at either side of the wheel 
hub. But even if I was to accept that the quick release lever had been correctly assembled 
by Mr P there was no evidence found by the bike technician that would support there being 
any manufacturing fault with this bike.
If the quick release was already incorrectly preassembled when the bike was delivered to 
Mr P then that would suggest a fault on supply. But that seems unlikely as the bike 
technician, who is an expert on these matters, has explained its usual for these components 
to arrive unassembled, and Ive seen no further evidence to counter that assertion.
Mr P has directed me to other ombudsman decisions that he says support his case. But 
there were different issues in each of those cases and Im asked to assess Mr Ps complaint 
on its own individual merits. Having done that, Im afraid I dont have sufficient evidence to 
suggest this bike was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition.
I was sorry to hear about the injuries Mr P sustained in his bike accident and the impact that 
had on him being able to work and repay his debt with Shop Direct. Hed like them to refund 
the interest he now has to pay on his Buy Now Pay Later purchase, but as Ive not found 
sufficient evidence the bike he was supplied with was of unsatisfactory quality, and as Ive 
not seen sufficient evidence to say Shop Direct were wrong to add interest to his account, I 
dont think it would be fair to tell them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman