DRN-2137870
The complaint
Mr T complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has failed to recover his uninsured losses from 
his claim for damage to his home and loss of possessions.
What happened
Mr Ts home was extensively damaged by fire in 2017, which was caused by his neighbour. 
AXAs solicitors wrote to Mr T in June 2017 to say AXA hadnt paid his claim where there 
was a lack of proof of loss, and although it could pursue a claim against the third party on his 
behalf, he would need to provide the required evidence. The solicitors told Mr T they were 
appointed by AXA to recover AXAs outlay on the claim.
AXAs solicitors made requests to Mr T to provide details and proof of his uninsured losses. 
AXAs solicitors wrote to Mr T in January 2018 to say that AXA had decided not to pay his 
claim for his valuables due to lack of evidence. It said it could still pursue a claim for his 
valuables and other uninsured losses against the third party. AXAs solicitors subsequently 
confirmed to Mr T it wouldnt be able to pursue his uninsured losses in October 2019.
Mr T previously complained in 2018 about AXAs requirements for evidence in support of his 
claim for valuables lost in the fire. He brought this complaint to our service, but then 
withdrew it.
Mr T raised his present complaint to AXA in October 2019. Mr T said that when AXA 
wouldnt pay his claim for valuables it said it had instructed its solicitor to recover his losses 
from the third party. And he said AXA also told him his other uninsured losses could be 
claimed that way. But Mr T said this hasnt happened and nothing has been done. He said 
he didnt understand the solicitors involvement in his claim.
AXA responded to Mr Ts complaint in December 2019. It said his insurance contract 
included a clause that allows AXA to take over the rights of the insured person to claim 
against a third party, and to pursue the recovery of their outlay against a third party that may 
be liable for the loss. It said this would only be on a without prejudice basis to Mr Ts rights 
to pursue his claim himself. It set out the relevant term from the insurance policy:
We may also pursue any claim to recover any amount due from a third party in the
name of anyone claiming cover under this policy.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said the policy allowed 
AXA to pursue the third party and it offered Mr T its solicitors to avoid cost to him in pursuing 
his losses, which it didnt have to do. She said it was clear from its letter that AXA 
considered Mr Ts valuables as an uninsured loss having declined his claim previously. And 
that it was fair for AXA to decline to pursue Mr Ts claim. She said when the solicitors 
couldnt succeed in claiming Mr Ts uninsured losses, it was still open to him to take his own 
legal action. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigator. He said he feels no further forward with his claim and 
requested an ombudsman review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent considered here the issues involved in Mr Ts previous complaint about AXAs 
decline of his claim for insufficient evidence. The present complaint is limited to AXAs 
involvement in Mr Ts claim against the third party. I understand Mr T has made a separate 
complaint to AXA about the service hes received from the insurer.
AXAs solicitors advised Mr T by letter what they would be claiming for and that this was 
primarily to recover your insurance companys expenditure. They told him that he could also 
include a claim for his uninsured losses and said that he would need to provide full written 
details and any supporting evidence. The solicitors said that, without evidence we will be 
unable to claim the losses.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the burden of proof is on the policyholder to prove their 
ownership and loss of the items claimed. Neither AXA or its solicitors thought there was 
sufficient evidence on which to base a claim against the third party. From what I have seen 
Mr T was given plenty of opportunity to provide the evidence, but couldnt. I dont think this 
was an unreasonable position for AXA to have taken. 
Mr T felt that AXAs solicitors should have told him in 2018 that they wouldnt being assisting 
with his uninsured losses. From what I have seen, they were not aware of exactly what was 
being included as uninsured losses until 2019. And their requests for the supporting 
evidence werent met with the required information from Mr T.
I can see that it took time for AXAs solicitors to prepare a schedule of Mr Ts losses. I think 
that looking at the time taken it would have been preferable for the solicitors to have 
explained to Mr T earlier that recovery of his losses was not going to proceed. This would 
have allowed him the option of pursuing his own legal action against the third party for his 
uninsured losses. However, since any action for recovery of losses would have required 
sufficient evidence of proof of ownership and loss, an action taken by Mr T is very likely to 
have arrived at the same outcome as AXAs solicitors did. As a consequence, I dont think 
that Mr T suffered a detriment for the time taken on his claim. 
I agree with the investigator that AXA acted in accordance with the terms of the policy and 
with good intentions when they provided Mr T with the services of its solicitors. This held out 
the prospect of the recovery of his losses from the third party, which were in part uninsured 
as a result of AXAs previous decline of his claim. Had Mr T been able to satisfy the 
requirement to prove his claim he would not have incurred any cost for this action. However, 
AXA wasnt required under Mr Ts policy to recover his uninsured losses with the third party.
Unfortunately, Mr T was unable to provide the proof required for his claim and I think it was 
reasonable for AXA and its solicitors to decide not to continue with his claim for uninsured 
losses. This decision was reached largely for the same reasons AXA had declined the claim 
originally and was confirmed to Mr T by letter in September 2019. I think in the 
circumstances it was fair and reasonable for AXA to have reached this decision and I dont 
require it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman