DRN-2246588
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) didnt check his identity 
before updating his account passbook and printing out a bank statement. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
Mr C has a passbook savings account with BOS. Mr Cs wife attended a branch and asked 
for the passbook to be updated. BOS declined this request and said the account holder 
(Mr C) must attend. Mr C later attended the branch, had the passbook updated and a bank 
statement printed for him. 
Mr C complained. He said that the branch staff had failed to verify his identity before taking 
the above actions. The branch manager became involved and Mr C was given £25. BOS say 
the £25 was compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. Mr C disputes this, 
he says it was to cover his travel costs of attending the branch and was paid as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
The complaint was later referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it 
should be upheld. In summary, she thought BOS had already done enough to put things 
right, so she didnt recommend that they needed to do more. 
Mr C disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Let me 
explain.
It isnt in dispute that BOS ought to have verified Mr Cs identity prior to updating the 
passbook and printing a statement. BOS themselves accept this. All that remains to be 
decided is if anything further needs to be done to put things right. 
Mr C has raised concerns about things that could have happened had it not been him in the 
branch. I understand his point, but fortunately, it was him in the branch that day. Im unable 
to consider compensation for what might have happened, only what did happen. And whilst I 
acknowledge Mr Cs valid concerns, as it was him who presented the passbook and 
received the printed bank statement, I dont think his account security has been 
compromised. 
Mr C accepts that he received £25 from BOS, although there is some dispute as to 
specifically what this was for. He points out the letter he received didnt reference this as 
compensation. Ive considered this but I think its more likely than not that the £25 was to 
compensate him for any distress and inconvenience BOSs failure to verify his identity 
caused. And importantly, even if this was offered as a gesture of goodwill or towards travel 
expenses as Mr C claims, it wouldnt change my mind as to the outcome of this complaint. 
Im not persuaded there was a significant impact on Mr C. He would always have had to 
have attended a branch to get the passbook updated at some point. Im not persuaded 
Mr Cs decision to do so on the day in question is something BOS are responsible for. So, I 
dont agree he was put to any inconvenience in that way. Overall, Im satisfied that the £25 
BOS have already paid is a fair way to resolve this complaint and Im not going to tell them 
they need to do anything further. 
Mr C has suggested that he is considering legal action against BOS in relation to this matter. 
That is something Im not able to advise upon. But if he rejects my decision it wont be legally 
binding on him nor BOS and he will be free to pursue his complaint through other avenues, 
such as the courts, should he choose to do so.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman