DRN-2643927
The complaint
Miss T complains about the service she received when visiting a Nationwide Building Society 
branch to open an account.
What happened
Miss T  an existing member of the society  received information about an account which 
could only be opened in branch. She attended a branch on 18 October 2019 and asked to 
open the account. She was told this wasnt possible right then without an appointment. 
Miss T was very upset by this. She had an operation due the following week and felt given 
there were four members of staff in branch and no other customers she should have been 
helped. Also based on her past-experience with the society she felt that the branch could 
have helped in ways it had done previously when she had opened other bonds. She left the 
branch in tears.
Miss T went on to open the account the following week. To do this she had cancelled her 
operation. When she attended the appointment, she felt some of the questions she was 
asked  about for example, wills  were unnecessary. This added to her upset. As did the 
fact that she later found out that an appointment isnt always necessary, and Nationwide has 
a Specialist Support Team. 
She made a complaint to Nationwide and felt this was poorly handled.
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong either by not opening the account on 
18 October or during the appointment. But it did think it could have handled her complaint 
better and paid her £50.
Miss T continued to feel let down by Nationwides service and brought her complaint to us. 
She was also unhappy that some accounts can only be opened online or by telephone.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought we couldnt 
investigate Nationwides complaint handling  as this isnt a regulated activity  and that she 
didnt think Nationwide had done anything else wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Mis T has been unwell. I appreciate how frustrating it must have been 
when she attended the branch to open an account and wasnt able to do so. Miss T was 
trying to sort things out before her operation and not being able to open the account must 
have been upsetting. I can see this really mattered to her as not only was she reduced to 
tears, but she also chose to cancel her operation because the upset caused to her meant 
she didnt feel able to go ahead with the operation. Miss T feels that if an appointment was 
necessary Nationwide should have made this clear. And that Nationwide should have helped 
her more when she explained her circumstances. She was particularly disappointed to learn 
that it could have helped her by sharing with her information about its Specialist Support 
Team.
I am particularly struck by the way Miss T has spoken about Nationwide as providing a 
public service. She speaks warmly and fondly about staff members she has dealt with at 
Nationwide. I think this is at the heart of her complaint; she feels a genuine bond and loyalty 
to Nationwide. She feels she supports the society and  in her time of need  it should have 
better supported her by for example, relaxing some of its requirements or a home visit. She 
is particularly upset that the help of the Specialist Support Team wasnt offered to her on her 
first visit to the branch. I can understand why Miss T feels this way, but my role is to decide if 
Nationwide did anything wrong not whether it could have done better.
I dont think Nationwide was wrong to require the account to be opened in person or for there 
to be a series of accompanying questions before the account was opened. I appreciate 
asking those questions meant that it was more likely that if a customer came to the branch 
towards the end of the day  as Miss T did  it wouldnt be possible to open the account 
there and then, but I still dont think that Nationwide was wrong. I think that most customers 
would appreciate that if they attended a branch without an appointment, they may not be 
able to open an account immediately or even that day. Had Miss Ts circumstances not been 
as they were, I think she would have found having to attend an appointment a minor 
irritation. 
I can understand why Miss T felt the questions she was asked were irrelevant. But I dont 
think it was wrong of Nationwide to ask these questions. Again, I think the reason they upset 
Miss T was because of her circumstances and the fact that she felt if they werent asked, 
she could have opened the account the previous week and she wouldnt have felt the need 
to cancel her appointment.
I asked Nationwide to explain what would have happened if the Specialist Support Team had 
become involved when Miss T first tried to open the account. Nationwide explained that the 
team aims to contact people within three to five working days and that opening a new 
account for members isnt within the scope of things the team does. Given this I dont think 
Miss T was disadvantaged by not being told about the Team until after shed open the 
account. I think she would have still acted as she did and cancelled her operation.
I appreciate Miss Ts comments about being denied access to accounts which need to be 
opened online or by telephone. It is open to the building society to decide how it operates its 
accounts and to decide whether to do so in branch, online or by telephone. I dont think 
making that choice is unreasonable although I appreciate it might be frustrating for a long-
standing member.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman