DRN-2087369
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited has been unreasonable and treated her 
unfairly when she tried to settle her loan early.
What happened
Miss S was given a £300 loan by Loans2Go in March 2019. 
Miss S says that in June she asked to settle her account early and that Loans2Go agreed 
the early settlement amount it required. Miss S says that when she later tried to pay,  
Loans2Go refused to accept the agreed amount and instead asked for a higher sum. Miss S 
says that later on Loans2Go agreed to settle the account for the original sum, but still 
refused to take her payment. 
She thinks that Loans2Go should wipe out the whole debt and remove information about the 
loan from her credit file. She also wants the lender to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience that she says it has caused.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Miss Ss complaint. He didnt think Loans2Go had 
done anything wrong and he didnt think it needed to compensate Miss S. 
Miss S didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Miss S. Having done so, I am not upholding Miss Ss complaint 
and I will explain why.
Miss S and Loans2Go dont agree about the exact dates on which various conversations 
took place. Miss Ss recollections of the matter understandably differ somewhat from the 
customer contact records that the lender has provided to us. As Miss S and Loans2Go 
disagree on some points, I have to make my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened, in the circumstances.
From what Ive seen, Miss S called Loans2Go in June 2019 to request an early settlement 
figure. She was told that she should pay £446.08 to settle the loan early. The lenders 
customer contact records say this conversation took place on 12 June. The records note that 
the settlement figure was valid until 10 July. 
I dont know whether Miss S understood that the early settlement figure offered would only 
be available up until 10 July. But even if it was not made clear to her at the time, I dont think 
it would have been reasonable for Miss S to have assumed that the settlement figure would 
remain at this level indefinitely. I think its likely that Miss S was aware that interest was 
being applied to her account and so the later she settled, the more interest she was likely to 
pay.
It seems that Miss S did not pay the settlement figure in June as planned. 
Miss S says she called again to settle her loan during July, but the lenders customer contact 
records notes that this conversation took place in late August. Miss S disputes this, but I see 
no reason to doubt the information provided in the lenders records. I think its more likely 
that Miss S is mistaken in her recollection about dates. In any event, she was told that it 
would now cost slightly over £593 to settle her loan early. The records indicate that a text 
message was sent to Miss S confirming the bank details for her to make the payment.
Miss S was unhappy that the settlement figure offered was higher than shed been told 
earlier in June and she raised a formal complaint which she eventually brought to this 
Service. Miss S says she raised her complaint with Loans2Go in July but the lenders 
customer contact records says this happened in August. Further early settlement sums were 
offered to Miss S but she didnt accept any of them within the relevant timeframe. In any 
event, Miss Ss loan account continued in arrears and the debt was later sold to a third party 
in October. 
I dont think the date at which Miss S first complained is material because Loans2Go 
eventually offered to accept the original early settlement figure of £446.08 in order to close 
the account -  provided Miss S was willing to withdraw her complaint from the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Loans2Go wrote to Miss S in October saying: 
Once you have contacted the FOS and withdrawn your complaint, would you respond to this 
email and inform me thusly, so that we would be able to accept your payment by the end of 
the month and close your account as agreed. Further, as per our agreement we would 
remove any negative information from July onwards.
Miss S contacted Loans2Go to make the payment as arranged but was told that the operator 
needed to confirm the matter with their line manager as the debt had been sold. Miss S was 
very unhappy about this delay, but it appears from the customer contact records that the 
lender did make contact with Miss S two days later to make arrangements to take payment 
and close her account. It seems however that Miss S had by this time become frustrated 
with the whole process and the settlement offer was not pursued. 
I understand why Miss S had found the process frustrating and that she disputes the dates 
on which various conversations took place. But overall, it seems to me that she was offered 
several opportunities to settle her account early, if she wished, but for whatever reason she 
decided not to do so. 
I also think its likely that Miss S understood that she could settle her account for the original 
sum of £446.08, if she agreed to withdraw her complaint from this Service. And whilst I 
understand why Miss S was frustrated at the delay when she tried to make payment in 
October,  I dont think it was unreasonable of the operator from Loans2Go to take a short 
time to confirm if they could still accept her early settlement payment, because the debt had 
been sold.
Miss S has also complained that Loans2Go did not freeze interest or hold her account whilst 
this matter was sorted out. But in the circumstances, I dont think Loans2Go ought 
reasonably have been expected to do so.
I have considered all of Miss Ss complaint points. I am sorry that Miss S will be disappointed 
by my decision but Id like to reassure her that Ive thought very carefully about everything that both she and Loans2Go have told us. Having taken into account everything I have seen, 
I dont think Loans2Go has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S in relation to this 
matter. So I am not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against Loans 
2 Go Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman