DRN-1272031
The complaint
This is a complaint that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs L. Allianz didnt actually make the sale of the PPI, but it has taken responsibility, so Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a  store credit card PPI policy taken out in 1991. Allianz sold Mrs L 
the policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs L has said the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. However it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
The credit card application form has been ticked to apply for PPI. Mrs L says that it wasnt 
her tick  and that the tick on the form does not match her typical tick. Ive looked at the 
form, and there are several ticks at various points on the form. It is possible that the PPI tick 
is slightly different, but it doesnt markedly differ from the other ticks, all of which differ 
slightly. And even if the tick was quite different, it probably wouldnt be enough to show that 
Mrs L didnt agree to the PPI  it could still have represented her wishes, with someone else 
adding it during a final discussion. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Ls consent. 
Mrs L says Allianz recommended the PPI to her. This would mean it had a higher standard 
to meet  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for her individual circumstances, rather 
than just giving her information so she make her assessment. But, even if it did recommend 
the PPI, it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time. The PPI could have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than 
Mrs Ls likely employment sick pay and other resources lasted. And it would have paid out at 
the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs L more financially secure 
for longer. And, in any case, it would have meant Mrs L wouldnt need to fall back on other resources so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Allianz explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Allianz gave Mrs L  about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been  the information 
on the form was limited, and I dont know what else was given to Mrs L at the time of the 
sale. But I dont think, in her circumstances, full information about costs and benefits would 
have affected whether she took the PPI. In her circumstances, its unlikely fuller information 
would have made the PPI seem less useful to her. 
So my overall view is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman