DRN-1823600
 
The complaint
Mr W makes a number of complaints about Nationwide Building Society handling of his 
account.
What happened
Mr W thought he had paid off his outstanding account balance in 2007 and that his account 
closed. He says he found out in 2014 that wasn't the case and that Nationwide had sold his 
debt. Mr W says Nationwide told him it had sorted matters out in 2014 but in 2019 found out 
a County Court Judgement (CCJ) had been obtained against him in 2014. He says this has 
affected his credit rating and credit applications and says he also complained about the 
account charges up to 2007.
Nationwide in summary says the overdraft balance was not cleared in 2007 as there were 
pending charges not applied to the account. It says Mr W didn't update his address details 
and so it wrote to the address it held on its records. Nationwide says the charges were 
correctly applied and it sold the debt in 2010. It says in 2014 it didn't provide accurate 
information and that its staff member at the time didn't appreciate the pending charges. 
Nationwide accepts giving inconsistent information to Mr W and has offered £600 
compensation.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought the charges were correctly applied but thought Nationwide didn't deal 
with the payment in 2007 appropriately. And should have told Mr W there were outstanding 
account fees which the investigator thought Mr W would have paid as he wanted to close the 
account. The investigator didn't think Mr W would have updated his address as he thought 
the account was closing. The investigator thought the default and CCJ should not have been 
registered and obtained and recommended Nationwide increase its compensation offer to 
£750.
Mr W accepts that view but Nationwide does not. It says Mr W ought to have known about 
the pending charges and ought to have updated his address. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Nationwide's compensation offer doesn't go far enough for the reasons I will 
explain.
I appreciate that the events of 2007 are some time ago and it is impossible to be sure about 
exactly what was discussed between Mr W and the Nationwide staff. So I have to consider 
what I think on balance is more likely to have taken place. And I think it likely Mr W attended 
the branch in 2007 to clear his debt and close his account. I say that as I'm satisfied Mr W 
was in the process of moving and was involved in a divorce. I also think it likely he did ask for the account balance with a view to paying that balance, and closing his account. I don't 
think there can be any other explanation for attending the branch and paying in full the 
account balance of that day.
I don't think it fair to say Mr W ought to have known there would be further account charges. 
And I would have expected Nationwide staff to tell him that as that information would be 
available to those staff. I think if Mr W was told there were outstanding account charges that 
he would have paid them as he was paying over a £1,300 and is likely to have paid those 
charges on the same occasion which amounted to about £40.
I appreciate that Nationwide says the problems started due to Mr W's failure to update his 
address. But I disagree and think that Mr W assumed the account was closed as he had 
paid off what he believed was the outstanding balance. And that he didn't think he needed to 
provide a new address in those circumstances.
It follows that I don't think Nationwide acted fairly by registering the default in these 
circumstances and I think it ought to have realised that Mr W had paid the full balance and 
may have been unaware of the pending charges. I think in those circumstances it could have 
considered the possibility that not only was Mr W unaware of those charges, but he may 
have moved address. I say that as I think it unlikely that a customer would clear a significant 
debt but ignore a small balance. And Nationwide ought to have considered alternative 
methods of contact and the proportionality of its action before taking the steps it and its 
agents took in registering a default and obtaining a CCJ.
It is difficult to assess the impact the default and CCJ had on Mr W. But I have no doubt both 
would have affected Mr W's credit applications and I can see that Nationwide accept it gave 
Mr W incorrect information about this in 2014. So I think Nationwide should increase its 
compensation offer to £750. I'm satisfied that is a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
and reflects how long these matters had taken to sort out and the length of time Mr W was 
affected by what took place.  I also think that compensation amount takes into account that 
Nationwide said it would sort out matters in 2014 but didn't.
I have not looked at the fairness of the account charges as Mr W has accepted the 
investigator's view on that. I make clear that in summary I have not seen any evidence the 
charges were incorrectly applied.
Putting things right
Overall I think Nationwide should pay in total £750 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr W a total of £750 compensation. If it has paid Mr W the £600 compensation, then it 
should pay an additional £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman