DRN-3060504
The complaint
A company which Ill call G complains that R. Raphael & Sons Limited trading as Raphaels 
Bank (Raphaels Bank) assisted the perpetration of fraud against it and failed to provide 
requested information.
Mr B1 and Mr B2, who are directors of G, bring the complaint on Gs behalf. They are 
represented by a firm of solicitors.
What happened
G says that Raphaels Bank allowed W, who was not a director or employee of G but a self-
employed accountant, to open an account, take out three credit cards and use them to 
commit fraud. The two directors of G, Mr B1 and Mr B2, had no knowledge of the account 
and cards and only became aware when W was incapacitated and died in March 2019. Mr 
B1 and Mr B2 question how W could have opened an account and taken out cards when he 
wasnt a director of G. They say W spent over £90,000 on the account that theyd like 
Raphaels Bank to refund.
G also says Raphaels Bank has failed to produce requested documentation including its 
policy for opening the account in 2014 and evidence of the charge card application 
submitted by W in the same year. 
What Raphaels Bank say
G applied for a fuel account in June 2012. The account was approved and opened in July 
2012 and five fuel cards were issued. The direct debit mandate was signed by Mr B1 as 
secretary of G. W was the main contact for the account. Payments were made by direct 
debit directly from Gs account but if a direct debit was returned unpaid Raphaels Bank 
called G and a transfer was arranged. 
In November 2014 G was offered additional charge cards on the same account as an add 
on product. At the time the cards were only offered to existing customers and as the total 
credit offered didnt increase only anti-money laundering checks were completed. The 
account details remained the same and the initial direct debit mandate for the fuel account 
opened in 2012 was used for payments. Three charge cards were issued to Gs address.
Statements covering the fuel cards and charge cards were sent by email to W, who 
continued to be the main contact for the account. A single payment was made which 
covered fuel and charge cards. There were a small number of occasions when the direct 
debit was returned unpaid but direct transfers were sent from Gs business bank account 
and were authorised by an account holder to cover those payments. 
In response to the comment from Gs representative that W wasnt a director Raphaels Bank 
pointed to a number of factors that show he was authorised to act for G. These include the 
fact he was the main contact for G from 2012 onwards and Raphaels Bank was never told 
he wasnt an employee; Ws email address was a business address for G and all invoices 
were sent to that email address; when Mr B2 called in March 2019 he referred to G as a 
director; all correspondence and cards were sent to Gs business address; W contacted 
Raphaels Bank when the business moved.
Raphaels Bank says that in the circumstances it has correctly managed the charge card 
account and if fraud has been committed Raphaels Bank isnt responsible for it. The bank 
went on to say that for a fraud to be perpetrated over such a lengthy period Gs systems and 
controls must have failed  which is an internal matter. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Gs complaint didnt uphold it. In summary, she said:
- The charge cards were sent to Gs registered office address. Someone who was 
committing fraud would be unlikely to do so because of the risk of the fraud being 
discovered.
- The way the accounts were managed suggests B1 and B2 knew about the charge 
cards. Payments were made every two weeks by direct debit from an account they 
both had access to. 
- When the direct debit mandates were returned on three occasions (2014, 2015 and 
2016) calls were made to Gs number and transfers were made. G has said W 
sought approval for such payments. 
- G contacted Raphaels Bank about change of address and contact details.
- There were no unusual spikes in spending and the credit limit was only increased 
once from £2,250 to £3,000 (but only 50% of this was ever used). This isnt indicative 
of fraudulent activity.
- The charge cards werent regular credit cards so the benefit of them to a fraudster 
was lessened. And theres no evidence other credit was applied for.  
Mr B1 and Mr B2, on behalf of G, didnt agree with the investigator. They said the 
investigator didnt seem to consider whether the cards should have been issued as W wasnt 
a director or signatory. They also said the investigator didnt provide an application process 
and demonstrate it was followed. In these circumstances, Raphaels Bank should be 
responsible for any transactions made. Mr B1 and Mr B2 also noted that on the original 2012 
application W was listed as a director (when he wasnt) and this wasnt checked at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to be accepted that Mr B1 and Mr B2 knew that an account was opened, and fuel 
cards were issued in 2012. Their complaint relates to the fact they were unaware that charge 
cards were issued in 2014. Through their representative, Mr B1 and Mr B2 have asked for 
evidence of the application process in 2014 and about how someone who wasnt a director 
of the company was able to take out credit cards.
Having reviewed the invoices provided by Raphaels Bank, Im satisfied that there was only 
ever one account and one account number. So, there wasnt a separate account opening 
process in 2014. Raphaels Bank has confirmed that it launched the charge cards in 2014 in 
a trial phase and at this stage its sales team contacted selected customers about it based on 
their trade history. I have no reason to conclude this wasnt the case. So W didnt request or 
apply for the charge cards. It seems this is also why there is no application form to provide to 
G.
Mr B1 and Mr B2 knew about the opening of the account in 2012 and I consider it likely they 
completed the application process or at the very least were aware of it given that Mr B1 
signed the direct debit mandate. At this time, they chose to make W the main contact for the 
account, which suggests to me they trusted him. I dont consider Raphaels Bank acted unreasonably in contacting the agreed main contact in 2014 when the charge cards were 
added to the account. 
W contacted Raphaels Bank in respect of changes of address and telephone number and 
these changes matched Companies House records. The spending on the account was in 
line with expectations, with no major spikes and the credit limit was never reached. In these 
circumstances I also dont consider Raphaels Bank had any cause for concern about the 
account and its management. 
Mr B1 and Mr B2 say they werent aware of the existence of the charge cards or the amount 
of money spent on them from 2014. Whilst this may be the case, I consider they should 
reasonably have known these things for the following reasons:
- They knew W was the main contact for the account from 2012 and only changed this 
when he died.
- All invoices for the account, which included both the fuel cards from 2012 and the 
charge cards from 2014, were sent to a business email address for W. This email 
address was the same as the email address provided at application stage in 2012. 
- The invoices which sent to G show the balance for each account and a total figure. 
This means that even if Mr B1 and Mr B2 werent aware the charge cards were being 
used as well as fuel cards they should have been aware of the total balance that was 
being paid each fortnight. The invoices were paid by direct debit from an account 
controlled by Mr B1 and Mr B2. So they had enough information at the time to raise 
any concerns. 
- On two occasions after the charge cards were issued the direct debits were returned. 
A call was made to W at the business number provided and transfers were arranged 
from Gs account. G has explained that all such payments were authorised by Mr B1 
and Mr B2. So again, Mr B1 and Mr B2 were aware of the payments being made.
- The address held by Raphaels Bank was the business address of G, and this is 
where the cards and other correspondence were sent. The address matches the 
registered address at Companies House. As directors of G Id expect Mr B1 and Mr 
B2 to have oversight of the post that comes to their business address. 
- Ive seen the notes of when Mr B2 reported the death of W. He was told that if he 
hadnt already, hed receive new charge cards and that the adviser would contact the 
fuel card part of the business. Theres no evidence Mr B2 questioned this. Mr B2 
called again on 11 March 2019 and said a director had passed away and hed still not 
received the charge cards. This would imply Mr B2 knew about the cards, and also 
held W out to be someone who was trusted by G. 
It seems to me that G trusted W with some of its financial affairs and allowed him to act on 
behalf of G in respect of the account with Raphaels Bank. I have no way of knowing exactly 
what was discussed and agreed between W and Mr B1 and Mr B2 but the evidence I have 
seen doesnt persuade me Mr W acted fraudulently and without the knowledge of Mr B1 and 
Mr B2. I consider the transactions made on the charge card were authorised and made with 
Mr B1 and Mr B2s apparent authority and in these circumstances Rahpaels Bank isnt liable 
for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G and G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman