DRN-3492196
The complaint
Miss M has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds) customer 
service and how it settled a claim under her home insurance policy.
References to Lloyds include companies acting on its behalf. 
What happened
Miss M contacted Lloyds when she left the shower on in her home for many hours, which 
caused water damage to her home. Lloyds accepted the claim but only agreed to pay about 
10% of what Miss M assessed to be the claim value. So, Miss M complained to Lloyds.
When Lloyds replied, it said the settlement offered was based on the damage that could be 
attributed to the escape of water. On numerous occasions it had asked Miss M to provide 
evidence for different aspects of the damage, which she had been slow to present or not 
provided. It said Miss M had also disposed of items before it had the chance to inspect them, 
which breached the terms of the policy. Miss M had also denied access or failed to book 
appointments with one of its contractors, so they had to be removed from the claim. Lloyds 
had also expressed concerns about the damage claimed for and the costs involved. It 
referred Miss M to the list of points it had raised and said there were still issues that hadnt 
been resolved by Miss M.
So, Miss M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
Lloyds had fairly settled the claim based on its assessment of the damage caused by the 
escape of water. He also said the records indicated that Lloyds tried on several occasions to 
arrange to inspect the damage but that Miss M hadnt agreed to the visit. Miss M had also 
disposed of items she said were damaged before Lloyds had the opportunity to inspect 
them.
As Miss M didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive read the report prepared for Lloyds about the reported damage. This described the 
condition of each room and whether any damage was likely to be the result of an escape of 
water. Some water damage was identified, but there were issues, such as some of the items 
claimed for having been disposed of before they could be inspected. From what Ive seen, 
this seems to have been a thorough assessment of the damage, which explained what 
rooms and items were likely to have been affected by the escape of water and the reasons 
for this. So, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on this to decide which items formed 
part of the claim.
Im also aware that Lloyds went through a more detailed list with Miss M to consider 
individual Contents items that formed part of the claim. This assessed which items were 
beyond economic repair and I note that a number of items were excluded from the claim as 
Lloyds assessed they could have been salvaged had it been given the opportunity to clean 
or restore them or because they were in rooms that werent assessed to have been water 
damaged. Looking at the list, I think Lloyds has considered line by line what was reasonable 
to include in the claim and why some items werent covered. I think Lloyds carried out a 
reasonable assessment of the Contents.
By the time Lloyds was able to inspect the property, a number of items had been disposed of 
by Miss M. Looking at the policy wording, this said that in the event of a claim the 
policyholder should Keep any damaged goods as we may need to see them and that 
You must be able to prove and substantiate your loss. Miss M has said she needed to 
dispose of some of the items for health reasons. However, I havent seen anything to show 
Miss M discussed this with Lloyds before she disposed of the items and this made it more 
difficult for Lloyds to assess what items formed part of the claim. I think Lloyds assessed 
what was covered by the claim based on the information available and it did so fairly in the 
circumstances.
Miss M has also said that Lloyds took a while to visit and this meant it didnt see the full 
extent of the damage. Looking at the records, these showed that a surveyor tried to arrange 
a visit. Miss M asked if the assessment could be carried out remotely, which was agreed. 
Miss M seemed to have issues with uploading some of the required information and there 
were issues with some of the photos as they were too zoomed into the areas of damage. 
Lloyds tried to resolve this with Miss M and then tried to arrange a visit. The drying company 
visited and the claim itself was passed to another team to deal with, so that a more detailed 
assessment of the claim could be carried out. So, I think Lloyds did try and arrange to visit 
and that it initially didnt do so in response to a request from Miss M. Lloyds then made 
arrangements at a later date to visit in order to progress various aspects of the claim. From 
what Ive seen, Lloyds also later carried out an assessment of the reported damage, except 
where those items had been disposed of.
Ive also looked at the amount Lloyds offered in settlement. The settlement covered some 
damage in the dining room, bathroom and study, some of the carpets and some individual 
items of Contents. I can see that the amount offered for the buildings damage was based on 
Lloyds upper estimate for carrying out the work and that the cost of the carpet was based on 
checking the cost of replacing the specified carpet. The Contents was based on the cost of 
each individual item. However, the total amount paid was limited to the items that were 
assessed to have been damaged by the escape of water, which Im aware was considerably 
less than the amount Miss M was expecting to be paid. But looking at how Lloyds calculated 
the settlement figure, I think it did so fairly based on the buildings and contents damage that 
could reasonably be shown to form part of the claim. In the circumstances, I think this was a 
reasonable way to settle the claim.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think Lloyds acted reasonably in how it handled the 
claim and in what it offered to settle it. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require 
Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman