DRN-3666827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that The Co-operative Bank plc, trading as Britannia, wouldnt let 
them move their mortgage onto a lower interest rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out their mortgage with Platform Funding Limited (PFL) in 2007. PFL was 
a subsidiary of Britannia Building Society, which was acquired by The Co-op in 2009. Mr and 
Mrs Hs mortgage has remained with PFL ever since.
PFL only accepted mortgage applications made via intermediaries, or brokers, and Mr and 
Mrs H took out their mortgage in 2007 on the recommendation of an independent broker. 
The mortgage was on a discounted tracker rate for the first three years, linked to the London 
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). After the first three years, the rate was 2.45% above 
LIBOR, reviewable quarterly, and, since March 2022, PFL has used Term Sterling Overnight 
Index Average (SONIA) as the reference rate for Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage.
The mortgage was taken out on a capital and interest repayment basis, and is due to end in 
2037. Mr and Mrs H borrowed £280,000 plus fees, against a property value of £295,000.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs H applied to PFL for a new interest rate product on their mortgage. PFL 
turned them down. It also responded to a complaint made on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf by their 
broker. Mr and Mrs H arent complaining now about this application.
Mr and Mrs H sought advice from a broker, who didnt think they had been treated fairly and 
suggested they apply again, making clear they only wanted a new interest rate product and 
no other changes. Mr and Mrs H applied again in 2020 and 2021, but were again turned 
down.
Mr and Mrs H complained. They didnt think it could be right that they should be stuck with a 
mortgage on a higher interest rate than necessary, but their applications for a lower rate had 
been turned down on the basis that they couldnt afford lower monthly payments. 
PFL said its a closed book lender and doesnt offer new interest rate products. It said Mr 
and Mrs H had applied for an internal re-mortgage to Britannia, which is part of the same 
group of Co-op companies. Mr and Mrs Hs applications in 2020 and 2021 for a Britannia 
mortgage had been declined because of the amount of other debt they had and Mrs Hs 
reduced income, but they could re-apply if their circumstances changed. 
Mr and Mrs H got in touch with the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend that their complaint be upheld, because he thought Britannia had dealt fairly 
with their most recent mortgage application in 2021. He concluded that Britannia had had 
reasonable concerns about Mrs Hs income and Mr and Mrs Hs overall level of debt.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept that conclusion and said it isnt fair that they should be trapped 
on their current mortgage interest rate  even though Platforms website says it is taking on 
new applications from both new and existing borrowers, and they meet all Platforms 
published criteria for a new product.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Ill make some general observations about PFL and the various businesses and 
trading names in the Co-op group, as theyre relevant here. Mr and Mrs H feel that the 
various business names involved shouldnt matter; the point is that theyre paying more for 
their mortgage than they think they should be, and their mortgage lender should be able to 
offer them a lower interest rate.
However, the distinction between the various business entities and trading names is 
important. While PFL is part of the Co-op group, its a subsidiary and separate firm with its 
own Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) authorisation number. Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage is 
with PFL and always has been. PFL is not the same as The Co-op trading as Britannia, or 
The Co-op trading as Platform. They are separate lenders, and separate regulated firms.
Mr and Mrs H have pointed to Platforms website, which shows that Platform offers new 
interest rate products for which they think they should be eligible. If Mr and Mrs H were 
existing customers of Platform, they might well be eligible for one of Platforms rates for 
existing customers. But theyre not customers of Platform, theyre customers of PFL. The 
Platform website Mr and Mrs H have seen isnt anything to do with PFL. The Co-op uses 
Platform as a trading name (as well as Britannia), and the website in question is that of The 
Co-op trading as Platform. But PFL, while it is a subsidiary of The Co-op, is a separate and 
distinct entity. 
PFL is a closed book lender. This means it doesnt offer new interest rate products to either 
existing customers or new customers  and theres nothing in the rules of mortgage 
regulation requiring it to do so. Lenders are entitled to decide for themselves whether to offer 
new interest rate products.
As a subsidiary of The Co-op, PFLs existing borrowers can apply to re-mortgage to 
Britannia. PFL refers to this as an internal re-mortgage (in that its an application with the 
wider Co-op group, albeit to a different lender), and it wrote to Mr and Mrs H in 2019 and 
2020 to tell them they may be eligible to apply in this way. It said a Britannia mortgage could 
have a lower interest rate than their existing PFL mortgage, and invited them to get in touch 
if they wanted to make an application.
Thats what Mr and Mrs H did  and in doing so they applied to Britannia, not to Platform or 
to PFL. Its the declined Britannia application in 2021 which Im considering here. 
In late 2019, the FCA brought in new rules to help people who cant get a new interest rate 
with their existing lender to switch to a new lender in order to access better rates. Under 
these rules, lenders can  but arent obliged to  apply a modified affordability assessment 
to eligible applicants. 
Britannia has said it did that when it assessed Mr and Mrs Hs application in 2021: it applied 
a lower interest rate stress test than the one it would use for standard applicants. It 
nevertheless declined Mr and Mrs Hs application.Ive looked carefully at Britannias records. They show that it turned Mr and Mrs H down 
because of the level of their unsecured debt and the reduction Mrs H had seen in her income 
as a result of the impact of coronavirus restrictions on her trading. 
Britannia made a commercial decision not to lend to Mr and Mrs H. It was entitled to do that, 
and I dont find that it assessed their application unfairly or any differently to how it would 
have assessed applications from other applicants with similar characteristics. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs H feel very strongly about this matter, and a lower interest rate 
would significantly reduce their monthly mortgage payments. But theres nothing in the 
FCAs rules requiring lenders to lend or to offer customers like Mr and Mrs H a new interest 
rate product. Mr and Mrs Hs existing lender, PFL, doesnt offer new rates, and Ive found 
that Britannia assessed their application to re-mortgage to it fairly but it wasnt prepared to 
lend. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H can look again at their options and make a fresh application  either through 
PFL to Britannia or to a different lender. Each lender has different lending criteria and risk 
appetites, and they wont all be the same as Britannias. A mortgage broker might be able to 
help them find a suitable lender, and Mr and Mrs H can find details of brokers who have 
agreed to help people in their situation online.1
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman
1 https://www.moneyhelper.org.uk/content/dam/maps/en/old-homes/moneyhelper-intermediaries-for-
mortgage-prisoners.pdf 