DRN-3210602
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as F has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance 
claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr L, a director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf. 
What happened
F held a business interruption insurance policy with NFU. F claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
NFU turned down Fs claim. They said the core business interruption section of the policy 
only provided cover in the event of damage to property and Covid-19 hadnt damaged 
property. NFU said while the policy covers business interruption due to a list of specified 
diseases, Covid-19 isnt one of the diseases specified on the policy. 
Unhappy with NFUs response, F brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
F disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that the policy covers Plague 
which has a wider meaning than the individual disease and so should provide cover for 
Covid-19.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Fs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NFU have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Fs claim.
F doesnt seem to dispute that the core business interruption section doesnt provide cover 
so I will focus my decision on the extension for human diseases. For completeness however, 
I also dont think the core business interruption section provides cover for Fs claim as I 
havent seen anything to indicate that Fs losses were caused by damage to property. 
The extension for human diseases says:
WE will pay for loss of INCOME caused by the occurrence of any of the following 
diseases at the PREMISES which results in closure or restriction in use of the 
PREMISES on the order or advice of a competent authority:
Acute Encephalitis                    Opthalmia Neonatorum
Acute Poliomyelitis                   Paratyphoid Fever
Anthrax                                    Plague
Cholera                                    Rabies
Diphtheria                                Rubella
Dysentery                                Scarlet Fever
Legionellosis                           Smallpox
Legionnaires' Disease             Tetanus
Leptospirosis                          Tuberculosis
Malaria                                   Typhoid Fever
Measles                                 Viral Hepatitis
Meningococcal Infection        Whooping Cough
Mumps                                  Yellow Fever
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Fs policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and 
therefore this doesnt provide cover for Fs claim.
Ive thought about Fs point that Plague should cover Covid-19 but I dont think it does. In 
the Governments updated list of notifiable diseases Covid-19 and Plague are listed 
separately, indicating that they are different diseases. The medical definition of Plague says 
that it is a specific disease caused by bacteria, whereas Covid-19 is a virus. Moreover, if the 
intention of the policy was for Plague to cover a pandemic then the policy wouldnt need to 
include many other diseases, meaning the list would be redundant. Plague is also included 
in the list of diseases which indicates that it refers to the specific disease rather than a 
natural disaster. Therefore, even if someone at Fs business premises had Covid-19, I dont 
think this extension provides cover for its claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome F was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFU to pay Fs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman