DRN-3493111
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) paid part only of their 
claim under their home insurance policy following loss of a watch.
What happened
Mr J purchased a luxury watch in July 2020 in an on-line auction. The watch was lost and 
had last been seen at a particular event. Mr and Mrs J made a claim for its loss under their       
AXA insurance policy in August 2021. AXA declined the claim and offered a sum in 
settlement to Mr and Mrs J of just under £140, being the value of a more basic watch.
Mr and Mrs J considered that theyd provided sufficient evidence to substantiate their claim. 
They provided the box where the watch was usually kept, photographs of the watch before it 
went missing, and the receipt following its purchase for just over £3,700. AXA said that as no 
serial number was provided, there was no proof that it was the model claimed. Mr and Mrs J 
were unhappy about AXAs decision and wanted to be paid the value of an equivalent 
replacement watch of the same model and they referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Js complaint as he didnt think that AXA had acted fairly 
in dealing with the claim. He was satisfied that the receipt for purchase of the watch together 
with the surrounding circumstances provided sufficient evidence for AXA to settle the claim 
in full. AXA didnt accepted this view and the matter has therefore been referred to me to 
make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether, on the available evidence, it was fair for AXA 
to decline to pay the full replacement value for Mr and Mrs Js watch following its loss. I dont 
consider that AXA came to a fair and reasonable decision and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the policy documents and see that the contents of Mr and Mrs Js home are 
insured in principle, subject to the usual terms and conditions of cover. This includes cover 
for valuables. The relevant watch isnt included as a specific item, however the cover limit for 
valuables and single personal items is £15,000. I note that the policy covers the replacement 
value of lost items while temporarily removed from the home. 
Ive also considered what both parties have to say about the matter. AXA stated in its final 
decision letter that, unless the unique serial number was provided, it was unable to confirm 
the validity of the watch and was also unable to record this on the appropriate art loss 
register. It said that an auction company would usually note the serial number as a standard 
requirement and that despite writing to the company, it had received no response about this 
point. AXA acknowledged however that there was a receipt and that the value was broadly 
consistent with the value of a second-hand luxury watch. As well as there being no evidence 
of a serial number, it considered that the box was a counterfeit and said: - A genuine watch 
would not be sold in a counterfeit box.
AXA said that at no stage had it accused Mr J of anything untoward and it wasnt alleging 
that the claim was fraudulent nor that he was making a claim for a counterfeit watch but 
saying that it was genuine; We are merely stating that as an insurer we cannot be satisfied, 
on balance of probabilities, that the watch was a genuine [luxury watch] as there is not 
enough evidence to prove as such. AXA concluded by saying that it sympathised with Mr 
and Mrs J, however it said there was no evidence that the watch was genuine. It said the 
policy didnt provide cover for the cost of a genuine watch if the customer had been sold a 
counterfeit.
Mr J stated that hed bought the luxury watch as a gift for his wife. He said that the relevant 
on-line auction was managed by what he referred to as a well-respected and long-
established organisation. He said that: - it is not the sort of a company that knowingly sells 
counterfeit goods to customers such as I, duly then passing them off as genuine. He said 
that the auction took place during the pandemic and that it had been impossible for him to 
seek further independent examination to check authenticity at the time.
Mr J thought that the watch had been lost at a particular event, as that was the last time that 
he and his wife recalled seeing it. He said that a thorough search was carried out and 
enquiries made with the event organisers, but to no avail. They also reported the matter to 
the local police. As no crime had been committed however, the police advised that they 
wouldnt be issuing a crime number as the loss was accidental. Mr J acknowledged that hed 
been unable to provide the serial number and thought that this was a regrettable flaw in the 
auction companys record keeping, however something which he had no control over. He 
didnt think that this meant that the watch was counterfeit and the company had confirmed 
the formal process of how the watch had come into their stock and authorised for sale.
Mr and Mrs J questioned the advice of AXAs expert and considered that they were 
conflicted and were using the claim to discredit Mr Js company. They considered that the 
validation process had been unjust. Mr J said hed requested return of the box so that he 
could seek an opinion on it, however he said that AXAs representative had initially 
misplaced it. He said that the box eventually returned to him was not the box hed sent to 
AXA, and hed never seen it before. He said that his proof of postage documentation showed 
this. In summary, Mr J considered that AXA had handled the claim incompetently and said 
that its approach had caused considerable distress and inconvenience and had made him 
feel unwell. He said hed spent an untold number of hours trying to resolve the matter.
I note that Mr J wrote to the relevant auction company to seek evidence regarding the watch 
and to see if the company held evidence of the serial number for the watch. He said, I find it 
hard to believe that when a professional jeweller undertakes such an examination, he 
doesn't record the Serial Number. The auction company replied that it didnt have a record 
of the serial number but stated; - I can confirm this was checked by our independent jeweller 
and the watch you purchased was 100% real as [the companys] auctions do not sell 
counterfeits in any way. The auction company stated that the jeweller only holds onto his 
paperwork for six months from the date of his valuation and therefore it was no longer 
available as the watch was originally valued when it first came into its stock in March 2019.
Whilst its very disappointing that the auction company didnt hold a record of the serial 
number of the watch, I dont consider that its absence shows that the watch is a counterfeit 
item. Im satisfied that the invoice and photographs supplied by Mr and Mrs J show that they 
purchased the watch for just over £3,700, believing it to be a genuine luxury watch of a 
particular model. AXA has accepted the second-hand value to be reasonable if it was indeed 
a luxury watch of this type. I accept that Mr and Mrs J approached the event organisers and police about the loss, as described. In view of the persuasive evidence supplied by the 
auction company, I also accept that its expert considered the item to be genuine.
As to the box, AXAs claim notes state that a label with the customers name would be 
placed inside as well as outside and secured with an elastic band and that in the unlikely 
event that the label on the outside of the box had fallen off, the label would still be on the 
inside so it could not be mixed-up with another box. The notes also show that there 
appeared to be an issue when the box was being returned by Mr and Mrs J. This evidence 
doesnt confirm whether the delay in returning the box was due to postal issues or otherwise.
From the evidence which Ive seen, I havent been able to reach a separate conclusion on 
the question of whether the box returned to Mr and Mrs J was the box theyd sent to AXA or 
indeed whether the box was a counterfeit. However, such conclusions arent necessary in 
the light of the fact that Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the watch was a 
genuine luxury watch of the model claimed.
I recognise that AXA would wish to validate whether the watch was genuine and the 
absence of evidence regarding the serial number is most unfortunate. I also note that the 
auction company may not have responded to AXA. Im satisfied however, that the evidence 
now available from the auction company shows that it was satisfied that the watch was 
genuine. It was therefore fair for Mr J to have also believed the item to be genuine and so to 
pay over £3,700 for it. In the circumstance, Ive concluded that it wasnt fair or reasonable for 
AXA to have declined to settle the claim in full, subject to the usual excess.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against AXA Insurance UK 
Plc and, subject to all relevant terms and conditions of the policy and the relevant excess 
amount, require it to settle their claim in full.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman