DRN-4460152
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Astrenska Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I took out a travel insurance policy through a broker, which was underwritten by 
Astrenska. They booked a holiday abroad through a travel agent and they were due to travel 
in early March 2023. Unfortunately, on the day before they were due to travel, Mr and Mrs I 
were unable to find their passports. They say they let their travel agent know what had 
happened and the travel agent told them that it couldnt arrange new flights. Theyve told us 
that the travel agent cancelled their holiday. So they made a cancellation claim on the policy. 
They went on to find the passports a few hours after the flight had departed.
Astrenska turned down Mr and Mrs Is claim. It said that the policy only covered passports
which were lost  in Mr and Mrs Is case, their passports had been temporarily mislaid. And
in any event, it said that claims were only covered if a passport was lost, stolen or damaged
as a result of fire, theft or water in the three days before a policyholder was due to start their
trip. As Mr and Mrs Is passports hadnt been damaged by fire, water or lost due to theft,
Astrenska concluded that their claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs I were unhappy with Astrenskas decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Is complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the
policy excluded the temporary loss of passports. And she thought the claim was otherwise
covered. So she recommended that Astrenska settle Mr and Mrs Is claim, together with
interest.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 October 2023, which explained the reasons why I 
thought it had been fair for Astrenska to turn down Mr and Mrs Is claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the policy terms and the circumstances of this claim, to decide whether Astrenska treated Mr
and Mrs I fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of the contract between Mr and
Mrs I and Astrenska. Mr and Mrs I made a cancellation claim, so I think it was reasonable
and appropriate for Astrenska to consider the claim in line with the cancellation section of the
policy. This says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of any
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation (including excursions), and other pre-paid
charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay. You are also covered for any
additional travel expenses incurred if you are forced to cancel any part of your trip prior to its
commencement. This must be as a direct and necessary result of any cause outside of your
control, which was unforeseen at the start date of your policy or at the time of booking your
trip, whichever is the later.
The cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of specific events which arent
covered. One of these states:
What is not covered
Any claim as a result of your failure to have the required passport or visa, unless either has
been lost, stolen or damaged as a result of theft, fire or water during your trip, or in the three
days prior to starting your trip.
Its common ground that Mr and Mrs Is trip was cancelled because theyd lost their
passports. This was the direct cause of the trip cancellation. In my view, Astrenskas terms
make it clear that it wont cover cancellation claims caused by a policyholders failure to have
their passport unless its been lost, stolen or damaged as the result of theft, fire or water -
either during a trip or in the three days prior to the trip beginning. I dont find the clause to be
ambiguous or misleading and I dont think its been drafted in an unclear way.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Is passports were lost in the three days prior to the start of their trip.
But I think this particular policy term has been drafted sufficiently clearly to highlight that in
order for a claim to be covered, the passport loss wouldve needed to be caused by theft, fire
or water. And based on what Mr and Mrs I have told us, their passports werent lost or
damaged by any of these three causes. Instead, they simply werent able to find them until
after their holiday had already been cancelled.
On that basis then, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Is position, I dont currently think it
was unfair or unreasonable for Astrenska to conclude that their claim wasnt covered by the
policy terms. So it follows that I find it was fair for Astrenska to turn down this claim. And I
dont currently think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Astrenska
to accept and pay it.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Astrenska didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs I didnt agree with my provisional findings and Ive summarised their response. 
They said they still felt their claim was valid. They considered the passport clause was 
restrictive and that this restrictiveness hadnt been made clear. They queried whether this 
service had upheld other claims relating to the loss of passports and they said they 
considered theyd lost out as a result of being honest about the reason for their claim. They 
referred to media articles which they considered supported their position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs I, I still dont think it was 
unfair for Astrenska to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that Mr and Mrs Is policy was sold by a broker. Astrenska didnt 
sell the policy to Mr and Mrs I and so it wasnt responsible for highlighting key terms at the 
point of sale. As Ive set out above, I think Astrenskas policy terms make the cancellation cover it 
provides sufficiently clear. And in my experience, it isnt unusual for travel insurers to 
exclude cancellation claims which arise because a policyholder doesnt have their passport 
or the appropriate visa.
It's important I make it clear that each complaint is considered on its own individual facts, 
merits and the applicable policy terms. So Ive reached a decision on Mr and Mrs Is 
complaint taking into account the terms of this particular contract of insurance and the 
specific facts of the case (amongst other relevant considerations).
Ive carefully considered the information Mr and Mrs I have sent me. But overall, whilst I 
sympathise with Mr and Mrs Is position, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for 
Astrenska to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman