DRN-3977874
The complaint
Mrs P complains British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) didnt handle a claim on her
home emergency cover as it should have.
What happened
The details of this complaint were well known to both parties, so rather than repeat them, I
focussed on the reasons for my decision. I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P says her boiler was leaking so on 3 December 2021 she called British Gas to 
make a claim on her home emergency cover. She says because it took British Gas 
until 9 December 2021 to attend, the water from the leak caused considerable 
damage to the floors in three rooms. What I must decide is whether British Gas 
should have treated Mrs Ps situation as a priority, and therefore attended sooner. Im 
not persuaded it should have. Ill explain why:
- A leak from a boiler, unlike something like a burst pipe, doesnt necessarily mean 
a great deal of water is escaping.
- Mrs P said, in her complaint letter dated 2 March 2022, she was containing the 
water from the leak in a bucket which she needed to empty regularly, including 
twice a night. While an inconvenience, this doesnt suggest a great deal of water 
was escaping.
- Mrs P has said, also in her letter dated 2 March 2022, British Gas offered (on 
8 December 2022 based on British Gas records) to turn off her water, but she 
would rather empty buckets than have no water. Again, this doesnt suggest a 
great deal of water was escaping. Nor does it suggest her situation was dire.
- Mrs P contacted British Gas on 3 December 2021, and then not again until 
8 December 2021, seemingly after shed slipped while emptying the bucket. I find 
it more likely than not that had a great deal of water been escaping, and Mrs Ps 
situation was dire, she would have either chased British Gas sooner, or made 
alternative arrangements to fix the leak.
- I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs P was without hot water or heating.
- Given the time of year I consider it more likely than not British Gas had to give 
careful consideration to which customers were in urgent need of support.
A recording of the claim call isnt available, so I dont know what Mrs P said about her
situation. British Gas has accepted the call handler could have asked more questions 
about Mrs Ps situation. But based on the above, Im not persuaded British Gas - had 
it thoroughly enquired about Mrs Ps situation - would have thought she was in urgent 
need of support. So Im satisfied arranging an engineers visit for 9 December 2021 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It follows Im not intending to require 
British Gas to reimburse Mrs P for the alleged damage the escape of water caused to 
her floors.
In any case, if I were to conclude British Gas should have treated Mrs Ps situation as 
a priority and attended sooner, I still wouldnt require it to reimburse her for the 
alleged damage the escape of water caused to her floors. I say this because for 
water to reach, and cause damage to, the floors in the three rooms (including a 
kitchen and bathroom, which tend to have floors designed to cope with water), it 
seems likely there must have been a lot of it, and for quite a long time. But as set out 
above, Im not persuaded a great deal of water was escaping, Mrs P was containing 
it, and the leak was stopped on 9 December 2021, so it didnt last very long. 
Additionally, I have no evidence of the alleged damage. No photographs have been 
provided, neither engineer appears to have commented on it, and British Gas has
provided a record which suggests there was a substantial leak in the bathroom 
(which is adjacent to where the boiler is positioned) in January 2021. So I cant be 
satisfied the damage exists, or that if it does, it wasnt caused by a different incident.
Now Im not saying British Gas didnt let Mrs P down during this claim. An engineer 
attended on 9 December 2021. He stopped the leak but didnt fix the problem. He 
thought the problem was with the shower, so he isolated hot water to the bathroom. 
Another engineer attended on 16 December 2021. He said the shower wasnt the 
issue and went on to fix the problem. So by 16 December 2021, Mrs Ps claim had 
been sorted. She was, however, without hot water in the bathroom for a week 
unnecessarily. British Gas offered to pay Mrs P £250 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused her. While I dont agree with all the reasons British 
Gas gave for its offer, overall, I consider it a fair and reasonable one in the 
circumstances.
British Gas accepted my provisional decision. Mrs P didnt accept my provisional decision. 
She reiterated that he considered British Gas was at fault for damage to her floors and 
explained she considered British Gas had misrepresented the facts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has a different recollection of events to those I set out in my provisional decision. But 
having revisited the evidence available to me - including Mrs Ps own testimony as set out in 
her March 2022 letter - Im satisfied my findings remain a fair reflection of what happened. 
I still dont consider I can fairly require British Gas to reimburse Mrs P for the alleged 
damage the escape of water caused to her floors, or pay her more compensation, for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited paid Mrs P fair compensation. I dont require it to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman