DRN-1466634
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car he acquired with finance from Mars Finance Ltd (MF) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MF.
Mr O experienced issues with the car soon after he took possession of it. He reported these 
issues to the supplying dealer and over the next few months there were several attempts at 
repair.
Mr O continued to experience the fault, so he complained to MF. In its final response, MF 
said that because Mr O reported the faults to them outside of the first 6 months, it was up to 
him to obtain an independent report evidencing that the faults were present at the point of 
supply.
Mr O wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He doesnt think the 
car is of satisfactory quality and he wants to reject it.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought there was a fault with the car and said that 
despite several attempts at repair the car continued to have the same or similar issues. The 
investigator said Mr O should be allowed to reject the car.
MF didnt agree. It said Mr O didnt report the fault until 12 months after the start of the 
agreement. It also said Mr O had chosen to have the car repaired rather than contact it 
sooner to request a rejection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MF has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a 
second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr O  to have a degree of wear and tear. So, in 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault 
with the car, as opposed to an issue caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs within the first 6 months, its 
presumed to have been present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the available information. The car has been returned to the dealer on several 
occasions with a fault affecting the gears and the clutch. Two attempts at repair occurred 
within the first 6 months of the agreement. I can see that between June 2018 and July 2019 
the car was returned to the dealer with similar issues affecting the clutch and gears on 5 
separate occasions. Repairs were attempted each time.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that a fault occurred within the first 6 months. This is 
self-evident from the attempts at repair which occurred during this time. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that any of the repairs have been successful.
MF has said that its up to Mr O to provide an independent report to show that the fault was 
present at the point of supply. However, I dont agree. Im persuaded on the basis of the 
available evidence from the supplying dealer that the fault arose in the first 6 months, so its 
presumed to have been present at the point of supply. I dont think the business has shown 
otherwise. 
Taking everything into consideration I dont think the car is of satisfactory quality. 
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen, and taking into account the relevant law, Im persuaded that the 
car had a fault at the point of supply. The business has had a reasonable opportunity to 
repair the fault but from what Ive seen the repairs have been unsuccessful and I cant see 
that further repairs are likely to resolve the matter. So, in think Mr O should be allowed to 
reject the car.
I can see that Mr O has had use of the car despite the fault. So, I dont think its fair to ask 
MF to refund all of the monthly payments hes made. Looking at the mileage Mr O has 
covered, I can see that his use has been fairly limited. Hes explained that he only uses the 
car for short essential journeys to work now. Taking this into account, I think Mr O should 
receive 20% of his monthly payments back.
Ive considered the other expenditure Mr O has incurred on the car, including the purchase 
of a tow bar, new tyres and MOT and servicing costs. On the basis that Mr O has had some 
use of the tow bar but that it will be returned with the car when when the car is collected, I 
think its fair to ask MF to refund 60% of the cost of the tow bar. 
In relation to the tyres, and because Mr O has had limited use of the car as a result of the 
faults, I think he should receive a refund of 30% of the cost of the tyres. He should also 
receive a pro rata refund of the cost of the GAP insurance he purchased with the car for the 
months it wont benefit him once the car is collected. 
In relation to MOT and servicing costs, I dont think these should be refunded, because 
these costs are part of the ongoing obligations of car ownership.
Finally, I can see that Mr O has been caused a significant degree of trouble and 
inconvenience here. He hasnt been able to use the car as he wanted to, and hes had to 
return it to the garage several times. Hes also had the added distress of having broken 
down on the motorway which had caused him worry and concern and made him reluctant to 
drive the car. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MF must:End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr O
Return any deposit paid together with simple interest at 8% per annuum from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund 20% of monthly payments made by Mr O together with simple interest at 8% 
per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund 30% of the £120 paid towards tyres 
Refund 60% of the £350 paid for the tow bar 
Refund a pro rata amount for the GAP insurance for the months it wont be of benefit 
to Mr O
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman