DRN-3930446
The complaint
Mr A complained that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) had stopped 
covering repair and maintenance costs after he extended a contract hire agreement for his 
van.
What happened
Mr A acquired a new Mercedes-Benz van using a contract hire agreement in January 2017. 
This was a 60-month agreement, and the initial payment was £1,207.40 followed by 59 
payments of £402.47. The monthly cost included two separate elements  the rental and an 
amount for full maintenance, which meant that MBFS would be responsible for the cost of 
repairs and maintenance as set out in the agreement. The term of the agreement expired in 
January 2022 and Mr A extended the term by one year. The document setting out the 
extension details was quite brief, and it stated the monthly payments as £329.70 plus VAT. 
The overall monthly payment was therefore £395.64.
Towards the end of the initial five-year agreement, the van was damaged in an accident and 
Mr A arranged the necessary bodywork repairs, covered by the insurance (the bodywork 
repairs are not part of the complaint but are noted here to set out the sequence of events). In 
February 2022  just after Mr A had extended the agreement  Mr A told us that, the 
bodywork repairs having been completed, he took the van to the Mercedes dealership for an 
MOT test and service. At this point, repairs costing £2,324.38 were identified, and I have a 
copy of the quote for these. But Mr A was told that they were no longer covered under his 
hire agreement with MBFS. He said the dealership held onto the van and wouldnt release it 
until payment was made.
Mr A said there was no indication on the extension agreement that repairs and maintenance 
would no longer be covered. He complained to MBFS about this. It responded to say that it 
accepted that the documentation about the extension didnt mention that, because of the age 
of the van, repairs and maintenance wouldnt continue to be covered, and it offered Mr A 
£200 in recognition of this error.
Mr A wasnt happy with this  he thought that MBFS should continue to cover the cost of 
repairs and maintenance for the extra year of the agreement, as he thought would be the 
case. So he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into this, but didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. Mr A 
didnt agree, and asked that it be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022, explaining why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr A sent in more information, which Ive discussed below. MBFS 
accepted my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
I set out my findings in my provisional decision as follows:
I have copies of the original contract hire agreement, the extension document and the quote 
for the repairs. The extension document was very short, and only set out brief details 
including the monthly cost plus VAT.
MBFS told us that, because of the age of the vehicle, it was not possible to extend the repair 
and maintenance arrangements when Mr A extended the contract hire agreement. But 
MBFS accepted that none of the extension documents, including communications from its 
staff, stated that repairs and maintenance would no longer be covered, and so it had offered 
Mr A a payment of £200 in recognition of the inconvenience caused by this.
Ive considered this carefully, and I accept that the age of a vehicle will usually affect the 
likelihood and frequency of repairs, so I can see why MBFS wouldnt normally extend the 
repair and maintenance agreement. However, I consider the onus was on MBFS to make 
clear the terms of the extension - which it has accepted that it didnt do.
Mr A was paying a single monthly payment for both elements of the agreement in the first 
five years, and the payment due under the extended contract  for the hire only - was quite 
similar. And I note that the extension document stated that the terms and conditions of the 
original agreement apply. So in the absence of clear information from MBFS, I dont think 
Mr A could reasonably have been expected to identify the change in terms and query it at 
the time. Because of all this, Im proposing to uphold Mr As complaint.
I said in my provisional decision that I didnt consider that I could fairly direct MBFS to cover 
repairs and maintenance for the whole of the extended contract  Mr A wasnt paying for this 
level of service. But I did consider it fair for MBFS to cover the repairs needed on the van 
now, that would otherwise have been covered under the previous repair and maintenance 
agreement. I also said that, if, after the repairs are complete, Mr A wishes to terminate the 
extension agreement, MBFS should allow him to do so without penalty. 
I said this on the basis that the van could be repaired and brought back into use. However, 
Mr A has confirmed that the agreement is now about to end, and he hasnt been able to use 
the van for some time. But he says that further repairs are now required, and he thinks 
MBFS should pay for these. 
Ive thought about what Mr A has said on this point. As Mr A says the van has not been in 
use it seems unlikely that it has incurred further significant wear and tear. But I dont have 
any information on what any further repairs might be, or whether they wouldve been 
covered under the previous repair and maintenance agreement. Mr A also hasnt been able 
to confirm the mileage. So at this point I cannot fairly say whether MBFS ought reasonably to 
cover further repair costs  and indeed MBFS has not had an opportunity to determine such 
costs or consider whether it will cover them. On that basis, if Mr A is unhappy with the final 
charges on return of the van, he should contact MBFS in the first instance and if he is unable 
to resolve the issue he can bring a separate complaint to this service. 
Mr A also responded to the provisional decision to say that, because of storage charges at 
the dealership, the van was returned to him, and it has been parked on his driveway since 1 
June 2022, out of use. He sent in a further invoice for £144, but this was in relation to some 
checks on the vehicle at the dealership, rather than storage. Mr A also said that he had lost 
a considerable amount of work through not being able to use the van, and had incurred hire costs for a replacement vehicle. We asked Mr A for evidence of these costs, and he sent in 
van hire invoices totalling £1,215.80.
I have considered these points, but as I understand Mr As payments under the agreement 
with MBFS have been suspended since April, and the value of these payments is more than 
the hire costs, I dont consider that I can fairly direct MBFS to pay additional compensation to 
cover the hire costs  it wouldnt be reasonable for Mr A not to pay anything to remain 
mobile. I also dont consider I can fairly direct MBFS to refund the amount of £144, as it does 
not relate to storage. However, I remain of the view that MBFS should refund the monthly 
payments made by Mr A when he was unable to use the van because it was held at the 
dealership.
In summary, my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision remain unchanged, and 
therefore I uphold Mr As complaint. As noted above, if Mr A is unhappy with the final 
charges at the end of the contact, he should raise this with MBFS in the first instance. 
Putting things right
MBFS should:
Pay for the repairs specified in the estimate dated 3 Mar 2022 that would otherwise 
have been covered under the previous repair and maintenance agreement.
Refund any monthly payments made under the hire agreement for the period that Mr A 
was unable to use the van because it was held at the dealership, adding 8% simple 
interest* on all refunded amounts from the date Mr A paid them to the date 
compensation is paid.
Pay Mr A the £200 it previously offered (if it has not already done so).
Remove any adverse information from Mr As credit record (if any was added).
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I uphold Mr As complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited should compensate Mr A as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman