DRN-3039197
The complaint
 Ms C has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) agreed to give her 
overdrafts on her accounts when she was in no position to repay them, and unfairly 
continued to apply interest, fees and charges to those overdrafts when she was in financial 
difficulty. 
What happened
 Ms C complained that NatWest should not have allowed her to have access to such large 
overdraft facilities. She said this made her financial difficulties worse when she incurred 
repeated charges and fees on those overdrafts and felt that NatWest should have stopped 
her from using those overdrafts earlier. 
NatWest had already refunded some of the charges applied to Ms Cs accounts. But one of 
our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that NatWest should rework Ms Cs 
account to remove the effect of all the interest, fees, and charges added to her overdrafts 
from 21 February 2020. Our adjudicator felt that by this stage NatWest should have realised 
that Ms C was getting into difficulties with her overdrafts and that continuing to apply charges 
and fees after this point was not fair or reasonable. NatWest has accepted our adjudicators 
view.
But Ms C disagreed. She feels she should never have been allowed to borrow such large 
amounts through her overdrafts, shes suggested that the debt she still owes to NatWest 
should be written off. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having carefully considered everything, I think that what our adjudicator has already 
suggested to put things right for Ms C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. So where a business continued to allow a consumer to 
use a credit facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it 
to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest 
and charges on that credit. 
Ms C says NatWest should do something different here. She suggested in her submissions 
to us that it would be fairer for the remaining balance on her debt written off. Shes said the 
debt will continue to have serious negative impacts on her life and feels she would not be in 
this position if NatWest hadnt agreed to give her such large overdraft facilities. Ive thought 
about what Ms C has said. But NatWest has agreed to remove all the interest, fees and 
charges that it applied to her accounts after 21 February 2020, which is where I think it 
became clear that the overdrafts were unsustainable to Ms C. And much of what Ms C is left 
with to repay are the funds which she used. I think its fair to expect Ms C to repay these 
funds. And NatWest is already working with Ms C to ensure that she has an affordable 
payment plan in place. 
I note that Ms C has said she thinks that she should never have been approved for the 
overdraft limits that were applied to her accounts given her financial situation at the time and 
her personal circumstances. But Ive seen evidence to show that NatWest did appropriate 
checks to ensure that Ms C met its lending criteria at the time that the overdrafts were 
approved, and her accounts didnt start to show signs of financial difficulty until after those 
limits had been agreed. I also havent seen anything to suggest that at the time Ms C applied 
for her overdrafts she had told NatWest about her difficult personal circumstances. And so I 
cant say this is something NatWest should have taken into account. With all this in mind I 
dont think NatWest was wrong to have offered Ms C those overdrafts. As detailed above, it 
is only when Ms Cs account management began to deteriorate a few months later that I 
think NatWest should have taken action to stop things getting worse.
So Im satisfied that what our adjudicator set out as a resolution for this complaint  and 
which NatWest has already agreed to do  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more.
 Fair compensation  what NatWest needs to do to put things right for Ms C
 Having thought about everything, I agree with the findings set out by our adjudicator. So I 
think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Ms Cs complaint for 
NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 21 February 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Ms C to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Cs 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 2020.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Ms Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Cs complaint. National Westminster Bank 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above, if it has not already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman