DRN-4119200
The complaint
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank Plc treated him unfairly in relation to loan applications he 
made.
What happened
Mr B completed an application online, for a personal loan for £12,000 to be repaid over 36 
months. At the time, the bank was advertising an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 4.9% 
(representative).
Mr B says he couldnt see if hed been approved for the loan or the APR, so he was left with 
no option but to click on the apply now button. When he did this, he saw he had been 
approved for the loan but with an APR of 7.9%.
Mr B looked through the figures but didnt like how much hed need to pay so he decided to 
see if he could extend the term to lower the repayments. But the system wouldnt allow this.
Upon telephoning the banks underwriting team Mr B was told hed need to delete the 
current application and submit a new one to get the repayment term he wanted. And so, 
after a few days, Mr B submitted another application on the original term of 36 months as his 
circumstances had improved. HSBC offered him an APR of 10.9%. 
Mr B contacted the underwriting team to complain about the APR. It told him, this was due to 
him applying a second time, after deleting the first application. 
After some back and forth, the underwriters agreed to a lower APR, offering 8.9 % for the 
loan. The rate wasnt immediately amended on the credit agreement, which meant Mr B had 
to contact the bank. 
He eventually signed the credit agreement with the correct rate and returned it to the bank. 
But says he remained unhappy.
HSBC investigated and issued a response. In summary, this said:
- When Mr B had submitted the first application, he was told what APR it was prepared 
to offer. Once an application is submitted it isnt possible to amend the details. 
- If Mr B wanted to change the details, hed have to submit a new application, which is 
what happened here.
- It couldnt guarantee hed get the same APR. 
- It noted the APR was still too high for Mr B following another application. But it had 
subsequently agreed to reduce this. It was sorry to hear he remained dissatisfied with 
the rate. But overall, it didnt think it had done anything wrong in how it had handled 
the applications.
- It had paid £30 compensation for not amending the rate to 8.9%. It had now done so. 
Mr B didnt accept the banks answer. He felt that the application system was flawed 
because it didnt allow changes to be made. Instead, it pushed him into making an 
application which had ultimately disadvantage him. To resolve matters, he wanted HSBC to 
honour the original rate or pay him a sum that accounted for the difference in the rates. He 
also wanted the bank to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
including the cost of food and petrol, when visiting a branch in the city. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But she didnt uphold the 
complaint. She considered that HSBCs process was clear in that in clicking submit Mr B 
was agreeing to go ahead with the loan application, which involved consenting to a credit 
check. She said that rates could change between applications and that ultimately there was 
no obligation on Mr B to go ahead with what he had been offered, but hed decided to sign 
the credit agreement. She thought £30 compensation was fair for the delay in amending the 
loan agreement to 8.9%.
Mr B didnt accept these conclusions and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I realise Mr B will be disappointed, so Id 
like to explain why. 
Ive reviewed the banks online application process and I consider its clear in informing Mr B 
that by clicking submit hed be going ahead with his application. I understand he didnt like 
the amount hed need to repay but he didnt contact HSBC before going ahead  instead he 
contacted it after hed applied. So, I dont find it did anything wrong with the application. 
I note the bank was advertising an APR of 4.9% at the time but it didnt guarantee to provide 
this rate. Rather, it said that the APR varied according to the size of the loan and that the 
amount an applicant wished to borrow may be close to one of the points where the APR 
changed. Information online also made clear that rates are subject to change and the 
illustrative APR may not be the rate received. Earlier conversations with the bank also 
confirmed that APRs couldnt be guaranteed as applications are subject to full risk 
assessments. 
Because Mr B had gone ahead with his applications, they were live. So, I dont consider it 
was unreasonable for the underwriters to say hed need to delete an application and re-
submit a new one, given he wanted to change key terms. 
Im satisfied that the online process makes clear that in submitting an application, it will be 
subject to a credit check. So, in making other applications the credit checks most probably 
did influence the rates offered. But I dont think the HSBC did anything wrong because it 
made clear it will undertake credit checks during applications. On this point, the online 
process says, 
Well run a credit check after you agree and submit 
Mr B was also told over the phone that any further applications would still be subject to a 
credit check and assessment. 
I understand Mr B doesnt like the banks online process. But, putting all of the above to one side for a moment, I think its important to understand that there wasnt any obligation on him 
to accept the rate he was offered if he wasnt happy with the lending proposal. He could as 
our investigator explained, looked elsewhere for more competitive rates. 
But in signing the agreement, Mr B confirmed he was happy to be bound by the rate he had 
been offered and I think it would be inappropriate for me to interfere with that, especially 
bearing in mind that he and HSBC ultimately agreed to the 8.9% (when the documentation 
was signed and returned).
I understand Mr B feels strongly about happened and I would like to assure him that I have 
considered everything carefully. But for the reasons Ive given, I wont be asking HSBC to do 
anymore. This now brings to an end what we can do in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman