DRN-4347777
The complaint
Mr Z and Ms C are unhappy with Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds (Acromas) 
handling of a roadside assistance claim made whilst they were abroad.
Where Ive referred to Acromas, this also includes any actions or communication by agents 
acting on Acromas behalf.
What happened
Mr Z and Ms C had European Breakdown Cover for their vehicle, underwritten by Acromas.
In April 2023, whilst in Europe, Mr Z and Ms Cs motorhome became stuck on a verge so 
they contacted Acromas for assistance.
Acromas said assistance would be provided. However, despite chasing Acromas over 
several hours, ultimately, they didnt provide assistance. Instead, Mr Z and Ms C say they 
paid €250 to a farmer to tow their motorhome from the verge where it was stuck.
Mr Z and Ms C complained to Acromas about the service theyd received. They asked for a 
full refund of the policy, reimbursement of the €250 they paid to the farmer, and 
compensation.
Acromas accepted the service their third-party agents provided fell short. They gave a full 
refund of the policy and paid £50 compensation. They also said they would be willing to 
reimburse the €250 if they were provided evidence of this being paid  but Mr Z and Ms C 
were unable to provide this.
As Mr Z and Ms C remained unhappy, they approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said that the 
policy covered breakdowns and accidents, but she didnt think either of these had happened. 
But in any event, she said it wasnt unreasonable for Acromas to require evidence of the 
€250 paid, so she didnt recommend Acromas do anything further.
Mr Z and Ms C didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr Z and Ms C, Im 
not directing Acromas to do anything further.
Firstly, as mentioned by our investigator, Mr Z and Ms Cs Insurance Product Information 
Document outlines the policy covers European roadside assistance as a result of a 
breakdown or accident. And breakdown and accident are defined in the policy terms. 
However, neither of these events (as defined) happened. Instead, Mr Z and Ms Cs vehicle 
was stuck on a verge. 
But this is to an extent irrelevant here, as Acromas didnt decline to provide assistance on 
the basis a breakdown or accident hadnt occurred. Instead, they said they would provide 
assistance. But then failed to do so.
I can see from the notes of telephone calls that Mr Z and Ms C had to contact Acromas a 
number of times over several hours and were told assistance would arrive within 60-90 
minutes several times - but it didnt. And at one point the assistance request was cancelled 
in error, before being reinstated several hours later when Mr Z and Ms C chased Acromas 
when assistance hadnt arrived. Ultimately Mr Z and Ms C were told assistance couldnt be 
provided due to the size of their vehicle and the location they were stuck, but this wasnt until 
much later in the day, after theyd already been told (several times) that assistance would be 
provided.
Acromas recognises the service their third-party claim handler provided fell short. So, 
theyve provided a full refund of the premiums Mr Z and Ms C paid for the policy. And theyve 
paid £50 compensation. Its clear that despite being told assistance would be provided, it 
wasnt. And I think refunding the premiums, and the compensation paid by Acromas, is 
reasonable for this so I wont be directing them to increase this.
Mr Z and Ms C say that because Acromas didnt provide assistance, they then had to pay a 
farmer €250 to tow them off the verge where they were stuck. Acromas said it would 
consider reimbursing this if Mr Z and Ms C provided evidence of the payment.
However, Mr Z and Ms C havent been able to provide any evidence to support this payment 
being made. And because there werent any repairs required to their vehicle, because it was 
stuck, rather than broken down or in an accident, they also dont have any receipts from any 
local garages to support what happened either. Mr Z and Ms C say the farmer towed them 
back onto the road, for a payment of €250, which was all that was needed.
Given the amount involved, I dont think Acromas has acted unfairly by requiring evidence of 
a payment being made before paying this amount. Its generally for the person making a 
claim for a loss to demonstrate the loss theyve incurred. And without anything to support the 
€250 payment being made, Im not going to direct Acromas to pay Mr Z and Ms C this 
amount.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman