DRN-3984122
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about Bank of Ireland UK Plc (BOI) not sending his bank account 
statements in large print as he has requested.
What happened
Mr C pointed out that this has been an ongoing issue for quite some time. Mr C needs his 
statements to be in large print due to his eyesight issues. And Mr C has previously had 
complaints about this problem upheld by this service. BOI apologised for the issues this time 
and said there had been some problems due to its new systems. Mr C told BOI he wants 
large print statements and he wants BOI to also produce any statements that it missed 
sending in large print too.
BOI said that the process was unfortunately manual and this did cause issues from time to 
time. It said there wasnt any alternative solutions to the process it follows but its working 
towards a more suitable arrangement in the future. It apologised and offered Mr C £250 in 
compensation for this, in recognition of the errors made on this occasion. BOI said over the 
two complaints it has now paid Mr C £500 in total for the difficulties it caused him. Mr C 
didnt accept this £250 and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said BOI generally had managed to provide 
the statements in a way that suited Mr C. But he accepted on a couple of occasions the 
process had gone wrong. Our investigator said it wasnt ideal BOI hasnt created a 
permanent fix yet. But he felt with the £250 compensation offered was a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances.
Mr C didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed on to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to consider is if BOI has fairly and reasonably dealt with Mr Cs complaint. And I 
can understand that Mr C just wants the bank to put this right for good.
Mr C has been clear with BOI regarding his individual needs. There is no doubt BOI are 
aware of the need to produce Mr Cs bank statements in large print. BOI said it has a record 
of this noted on Mr Cs account. Its clear that most of the time the process works but there 
have been occasions when things have gone wrong and this has led to Mr C having to 
complain to get things put right again. Mr Cs request to get large print statements including 
any missing statements in the same format is perfectly reasonable.
Its clear that BOI is trying to process Mr Cs statements in the way he would like. I accept 
that it is having to follow a manual process which may well be labour intensive and time 
consuming. But it is a perfectly valid and reasonable request from Mr C. The fact that BOI 
hasnt resolved this issue through updated systems shouldnt impact on Mr C getting the 
large print statements he wants. BOI has said it is trying to ensure it follows the same 
process to be certain Mr C gets what he needs each time a bank statement is sent out to 
him. BOI said it has checked with Mr Cs branch to make sure the statements will go in the 
correct format until such time as BOI has a permanent system in place to deal with this 
automatically.
There is a record of a couple of the bank statements not being delivered in the large print 
way that they should. But BOI has apologised and I think the offer of £250 compensation for 
the issues caused is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no further award against Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman