DRN-3178333
The complaint
Mr B complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial 
Services unfairly registered a missed payment on his credit file.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr B made a purchase on his store card account. He tells us that whilst hes 
had the card for a while, this was the first time hed used it. 
Mr B received a call from Argos Financial Services on 31 July 2021 informing him that hed 
missed a payment, so he paid the balance off in full. But a missed payment marker was 
placed on his credit file, due to the payment not being made in time. Mr B feels this is unfair 
as Argos Financial Services didnt contact him until after the payment due date.
Argos Financial Services says that Mr B was issued with a statement in June 2021, which 
clearly stated that a minimum payment was due by 21 July 2021. As no payment was made, 
a late payment charge was applied to his account and a missed payment was reported to 
the credit reference agencies. The account was then passed to the arrears team, who called 
Mr B to request payment. 
Mr B says he didnt receive a statement. He feels Argos Financial Services shouldve done 
more to contact him before the payment was missed. He now has a missed payment on his 
credit file which has prevented him from applying for a mortgage and has caused him to be 
declined for other forms of credit. He brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Argos Financial Services had 
done anything wrong, as it had reported true and accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies following a missed payment on the account. 
As Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account say:
You must make a minimum monthly contractual payment on your account each 
month by the date shown in your statement which will be at least 25 days after the 
date of that statement.
Mr B made a purchase on his store card on 16 June 2021, which was included on his 
statement dated 23 June 2021. This statement shows that a minimum payment of £5 was 
due by 21 July 2021. But Mr B says he didnt receive it.
Argos Financial Services has provided a screenshot of its system showing this statement 
was generated and sent. And I can see it was sent to the address we have on file for Mr B. 
So whilst I dont disbelieve that Mr B didnt receive it, I cant fairly hold Argos Financial 
Services responsible for that. 
Mr B says Argos Financial Services shouldve done more to contact him prior to the payment 
due date. But I dont agree. This is because its fulfilled its obligation of notifying Mr B of the 
debt by issuing the statement. Its Mr Bs responsibility to manage his finances and its not 
reasonable to expect Argos Financial Services to follow up all of its customers statements 
with a phone call or further contact. 
So Im satisfied Argos Financial Services did enough here to make Mr B aware of the debt. 
And theyve treated him no differently to any other customer in the same circumstances.
Argos Financial Services are under an obligation to report true and accurate information to 
credit reference agencies. So once the due date had passed and no payment had been 
received, it reported a missed payment marker. I cant say this was incorrect or unfair. 
At that time, Argos Financial Services passed Mr Bs account to their collection team in order 
to recover the missed payment. And I understand Mr B paid the account off in full at that 
time. So no further adverse information was reported on this account. 
I can appreciate why Mr B is so upset, as he had the ability to pay the debt and now his 
credit file is affected as a result of a £5 payment that he missed by mistake. I understand 
how frustrating that must be for him. But the mistake wasnt due to anything Argos Financial 
Services did. I can only uphold this complaint if I find that it did something wrong or unfair. 
And as that isnt the case here, I wont be doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman