DRN-4291138
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled and 
settled a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering his car.
In November 2022 Mr J was involved in a collision which heavily damaged his car and he 
made a claim.
Admiral assessed his car as being beyond economic repair. It said it would declare the car a 
write-off and assessed its market value as about £7,580. It paid him this amount without 
letting him know.
Mr J didnt agree with this valuation and he complained. Admiral increased its offer to 
£9,095. 
Mr J also complained about Admirals handling of his claim. He complained about delays 
getting his calls answered, that Admiral didnt call him back or keep him up to date with his 
claim. He was told the wrong value for salvage of his car and it took three months to get to 
the final value. During his complaint he also mentioned that he hadnt received a courtesy 
car.
Admiral upheld most of his complaint and offered him a total of £450 compensation. But it 
said he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car as there was no cover under the policy for it.
Mr J remained unhappy with Admirals response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and upheld it. He agreed with Admiral that Mr Js 
policy didnt include a courtesy car for the type of claim hed made, so he wasnt entitled to 
one.
He showed that Admiral had followed this services approach to vehicle valuations and the 
amount it had offered was in line with this. But he said Admiral had made mistakes during its 
claims process.
He thought Admiral should increase its compensation by £100 to a total of £550 in view of 
the mistakes it had made. Admiral accepted the view, but Mr J didnt. He asks for more 
compensation and that his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has also raised separate complaints with Admiral including the recovery of the salvage 
of his car and about the unused portion of his car insurance policy. These complaints are in 
progress with Admiral and havent formed part of his approach to this service, so Im not able 
to consider them further here. 
If Mr J remains unhappy with Admirals response to these points then hes able to bring them 
to this service in due course.
I can see that Mr J has now accepted the valuation of his vehicle. So Im left to consider the 
impact of Admirals service during his claim on him.
Having read the file of evidence Ive been supplied, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. But I 
think the amount of compensation awarded to him in the view is in line with this services 
recommendations, and Im not going to increase it. I appreciate this will be a disappointment 
to him and Ill explain why.
Having looked at the details of Mr Js collision and claim I can see he suffered poor service 
from Admiral from the start. Following the collision he wasnt able to get an answer from 
Admirals claims line. His vehicle was then recovered at his own cost. Admiral refunded this 
amount, plus £50 for his inconvenience (which is part of the £450 I mention above), about 
four months later.
Then Admiral had a system issue which meant it couldnt instruct its repairer to collect the 
car, despite telling Mr J it would happen. This led to a great deal of confusion for Mr J.
Each time he rang Admiral he was faced with a lengthy call wait time. I can see he mentions 
this several times, including a reference to a 45-minute wait he is clearly very used to 
experiencing. His exasperation is clear.
One of Admirals claims handlers tells him hes able to keep the salvage, but gives him an 
approximate value substantially below what it should have been. The raises Mr Js 
expectations unfairly.
Admiral had repeated issues contacting its own approved repairer to get an update on his 
car which meant it didnt know what the situation actually was.
Throughout this experience it seems to me that Mr J has remained calm, precise and has 
maintained excellent records of the progress of his claim. 
On the other hand, Admirals service has been very poor. Mr Js claims journey has been 
disrupted seemingly at every point and its been left to him to work out what the situation is 
and prompt Admiral to move it forwards.
I need to point out that its not this services role to punish Admiral for its poor service. 
Instead, we consider the impact of those problems on an individual making a claim. Its clear 
that the disruption to Mr Js life has gone on for several months and has taken him a lot of 
extra effort to sort out. And there are elements of the claim and complaint that continue 
today which Ive mentioned above but which Im not able to consider here.
Taking everything into account, Ive considered this services guidelines and I think the figure 
of £550 is appropriate compensation for Mr Js distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
to pay Mr J a total of £550 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. Its my understanding that £450 has already been paid, so this can be deducted.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman