DRN-2572816
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined his claim on his home 
insurance following an escape of water. 
  
What happened
Mr M had home insurance with Admiral. In May 2018 he made a claim as he noticed some 
tiles on his kitchen floor were cracking and the floor seemed to be sinking. Admiral 
considered the claim, but didnt accept it as it said the damage wasnt caused by 
subsidence. 
In July that year Mr M appointed a builder to look at the damage. They said there was water 
below the damaged area. Mr M contacted Admiral again. This time it sent out an expert to 
inspect the damage. They concluded that the joists beneath the floor were damaged due to 
dry rot. Admiral consequently said this had happened over time so wouldnt be covered 
under the policy. It said Mr M should take action to address the problem. 
After this Mr M appointed his own expert to find out what the cause of the dry rot was. They 
discovered a leaking pipe which they said was causing damp and had contributed to the dry 
rot. Based on their report, Admiral sent out another expert to look at the pipe. After the visit 
Admiral maintained its position that the claim was excluded from cover. It said the area 
wasnt properly ventilated and the dry rot is likely to have developed over time. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said he had been given confusing and contradictory 
explanations from Admiral. He also said he had received poor service from it as he had to 
call numerous times in order to get updates. And he said the damage had got worse due to 
the fact the claim had taken so long to conclude. He made a complaint.
Admiral upheld his complaint relating to the service he had received. It offered him £100 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience this would have caused. 
However it said it believed the damage to the joists in the floor had happened over time so 
maintained its position that his claim would be excluded under the policy. It also said the 
extension to the kitchen wasnt properly ventilated and this was due to faulty design which 
was also excluded. 
Mr M didnt agree this was fair and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ms complaint be upheld. She said she didnt think 
Admiral had done enough to show that the exclusions applied so thought it should accept 
the claim. She also recommended it pay an additional £300 compensation to make up for 
the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Mr M agreed with our investigators recommendation. Admiral responded to say it agreed it 
hadnt done a sufficient investigation, it offered to instruct another expert to inspect the 
damage. However it didnt accept our investigators recommendations.
As an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has come to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured to prove there is an insured peril  an 
event that is covered under the insurance policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the 
claim or prove that an exclusion applies.
In this case Admiral has accepted there is an insured peril  the escape of water from the 
pipe. However it declined Mr Ms claim because it said the damage was due to dry rot, which 
is a gradually operating cause and not linked to the escape of water. It has also said that the 
extension where the damage started didnt have the right ventilation which would have made 
the damage worse. And this would mean it would be excluded under the faulty design 
exclusion as well. I have considered whether Admiral has done enough to prove these 
exclusions apply.
In July 2018 Admiral sent an expert to look at the damage. At this stage the escape of water 
wasnt identified, and the claim was declined as dry rot was found which had developed over 
time. However after this Mr Ms expert identified a leak to a drain under the flooring and fixed 
the leak. When Admirals expert returned it maintained its position that the dry rot had 
developed over time so the claim was declined.
Ive considered this, along with the various reports provided from each side and I dont think 
Admiral has done enough to prove the exclusion applies. While the report from its second 
expert concludes that the dry rot has developed over a period of time, it draws no link 
between the leaking drain in the same area and the damp and rot present. The report just 
says: we consider this to be unrelated to the damage caused by the dry rot but with no 
further explanation or reasoning. As the leaking drain had left water in the area  which is 
confirmed by the same report- and dry rot develops on damp timber, I dont find this very 
persuasive. And I dont agree enough was done to show that the escape of water is 
unrelated. 
Further in the restoration schedule provided by Admirals expert it notes the cause of the 
damage as escape of water. And in a phone call between Admiral and its contractor, it is 
accepted that as there is a leak in the same area it seems likely that this would be related. In 
fact the surveyor confirms that the dry rot is the likely cause. And they confirm they are 
comfortable with the claim being validated on this basis.  
So while I can see the damage has likely happened over time, as dry rot takes some time to 
develop, I havent seen enough to persuade me that it is unrelated to the escape of water. 
Further, as the leak happened under the floor of his property I cant see how Mr M could 
have reasonably been aware of the damage developing over time. So I dont think its fair to 
apply the exclusion on that basis.
For these reasons I dont think enough has been done to prove the gradually operating 
cause exclusion applies.
Admiral has also said that it thinks the damage has been made worse due to lack of 
ventilation in the flooring and this is due to faulty design. It says the damage would therefore 
also be excluded on this basis. However Admiral has provided no further evidence or detail 
about why it thinks the flooring has poor ventilation. Nor has it said what ventilation it would 
expect, or provided the relevant building regulations to demonstrate this  even though these have been requested. So I dont agree it has done enough to show this exclusion applies 
either. 
Based on this, I dont think Admiral has treated Mr M fairly in the handling of his claim and 
hasnt done enough to prove an exclusion applies. For this reason I will require Admiral to 
accept Mr Ms claim under the escape of water peril in the policy and settle it in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Further I can see that Admiral has provided Mr M with confusing and contradictory 
information throughout the claim. And this has meant he has had to contact Admiral on a 
number of occasions to try and understand what was happening with the claim. This would 
have been distressing for Mr M, particularly as the damage at his property is fairly severe 
and getting worse. For this reason I agree with our investigator that Admiral should pay Mr M 
an additional £300 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to:
Accept Mr Ms claim under the escape of water peril in the policy and settle it in line with 
the policy terms and conditions.
Pay Mr M an additional £300 compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman