DRN-3219222
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the way Great Lakes Insurance SE handled their request for 
a refund of their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E purchased an annual multi-trip insurance policy, covering them from holidays 
taken worldwide. The agreed start date of the policy was 17 October 2019, with the end date 
being 16 October 2020. The policy provided Mr and Mrs W with cover for any trips within this 
period of time, for a duration of 17 days at a time. The premium charged to Mr and Mrs E for 
the cover was £203.40 and included cover for a total of 7 medical conditions.
On 18 June 2020 Mr and Mrs E contacted Great Lakes. This was because the holidays that 
had booked for the remaining period of cover had been cancelled, due to the Coronavirus 
pandemic. And so, they were no longer travelling. Given this, they asked for a partial refund 
of their travel insurance policy. 
Great Lakes responded, and said it wasnt able to provide any refund to Mr and Mrs E. They 
said this was because Mr and Mrs E had purchased their insurance policy on 17 October 
2019, and their policy wasnt to provide refunds for policies that started prior to 1 January 
2020.
Mr and Mrs E didnt think this was fair. They felt that it was unreasonable of Great Lakes not 
to provide any refund to them, given that they hadnt been able to use their insurance policy 
since government restrictions stopped the ability to travel. Mr and Mrs E said they hadnt 
been able to use their policy since February 2020, and they had received refunds for all of 
the trips they had been due to go on, from the relevant travel providers. 
Because Mr and Mrs E disagreed with Great Lakes position on the matter, they referred 
their complaint to this service, for an independent review. 
After referring their complaint here, Great Lakes got in touch with Mr and Mrs E, noting they 
had a change in position in relation to Mr and Mrs Es complaint. They noted they would not 
be able to provide Mr and Mrs E a refund of £20.34  this being a refund of 10% of the 
premium paid. Mr and Mrs E still felt this was unfair. They noted theyd only been able to use 
their policy twice and had paid £203.40 for it. So, they didnt feel the refund was 
proportionate to the amount of use theyd had out of it. 
Our investigator considered this complaint, and felt Great Lakes offer of £20.34 was fair. 
They set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in this 
case. They explained it is a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has 
started to bear a risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The 
investigator said its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums in relation to the 
risk it covered during that time.
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed, because cover under the policy had started on 17 October 2019, 
and the policy covered various risks from the point, until Mr and Mrs E asked for a refund  
which to be carried out, would mean the policy needing to be cancelled.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs E with a pro-rata refund, calculated based on the 
remaining premium from the date Mr and Mrs E first asked for refund, to the end date of the 
policy on 16 October 2020. The investigator said this was what Great Lakes had done, in 
offering a £20.34 refund. And so, they didnt consider that Great Lakes needed to do 
anything more.
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree with our investigators opinion. Mr and Mrs E said;
During the 14-day cooling off period, they didnt know what was to come in terms of 
the pandemic, and the impact it had on travel, so they couldnt have cancelled their 
policy at that point. And they had no intention of cancelling the policy at that time. 
The reason they couldnt use their insurance policy was due to government 
restrictions, and the global pandemic. And as they hadnt had use of the policy since 
February 2020, they considered the insurer needed to increase the refund offered.
Great Lakes was benefitting here, when the situation above was out of their control.
Because Mr and Mrs E didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days from the date You receive:
The policy document at the start of Your insurance; 
The renewal documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should You decide to exercise this cancellation right, You will be entitled to a refund of 
premium provided that You have not started a Trip to which the insurance applies and You 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of Your 14 day cancellation period You continue to have the right to 
cancel Your Policy at any time during its term by contacting Us, but no refund of premium 
will be available. 
For Annual Multi-Trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of Your policy.
Im upholding this complaint in part because I do think the offer Great Lakes has recently 
made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs E didnt know during the 14-day cooling off period, that they 
wouldnt be able to travel. But this doesnt alter the industry rules, guidelines or policy terms. The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs E. 
Its understood that Mr and Mrs E purchased their policy with every intention to go on holiday 
and be covered for the whole policy term. But coronavirus altered their ability to travel. So, 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think its fair for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund, from 
18 June 2020 to the end date of the policy. Despite the above rules, guidelines and policy 
terms.
Mr and Mrs E were insured from 17 October 2019, when policy started, until they requested 
a refund on 18 June 2020. This cover was for any number of trips they took, up to 17 days in 
duration.
At this point, whether Mr and Mrs E went on any trips or not, Great Lakes were covering the 
risk of a claim occurring. And the premiums charged to them, reflected this. So, Im satisfied 
it is fair and reasonable that Great Lakes dont provide a refund for this period of cover.
Mr and Mrs E requested a partial refund of their policy on 18 June 2020. Because of the 
coronavirus pandemic, Mr and Mrs E were no longer travelling, and they hadnt made any 
claim under their insurance policy either. So, Great Lakes were no longer insuring any risk 
under the policy from that point. As Great Lakes were no longer bearing any risk under the 
policy from that point  and as the circumstances of coronavirus being unique and 
unprecedented, I do think it is fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs E 
with a pro-rata refund, from 18 June 2020, until the date the policy was due to end, on 16 
October 2020. And as this is what is has offered to do, Im satisfied this is fair.
Ive thought about the figure Great Lakes has agreed to refund Mr and Mrs E  which is 
£20.34. Great Lakes has provided information to show that it gets varying percentages of 
claims across different months of an annual multi-trip policy. And so, when calculating the 
pro-rata refund for Mr and Mrs E, it has taken this into account. 
It has offered a refund of 10% of the premium on that basis. This recognises that Mr and Mrs 
Es policy was in force, and Great Lakes were on risk until 18 June 2020, but not for the 
remainder of the policy. 
This approach doesnt treat Mr and Mrs E unfairly or any differently to customers in similar 
circumstances to theirs. And so, Im satisfied the refund amount of £20.34 is fair. And I wont 
be asking Great Lakes to increase this refund.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SEs offer of £20.34 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. And so, Great Lakes should provide this to Mr and Mrs 
E. I dont require it to do anything more than that. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman