DRN-1493670
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr L payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 24 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether I can rely fully on everything 
they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is
Nationwide had to make clear to Mrs and Mr L that PPI was optional. Mrs and Mr L have 
said they must have been tricked into signing the paperwork, because they had no 
knowledge they had had PPI until recently. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude 
this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where someone has 
said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the 
person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It 
wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially when it 
was such a long time ago. And I can see that the policy that Mrs and Mr L bought only gave 
cover for unemployment  and not for accident and sickness as well, which would have been 
more usual. So it does suggest there was some kind of discussion at the time, even if, not 
surprisingly, they dont now remember.So I think its more likely this is what happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice. In 
any case, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mrs and Mr Ls informed consent. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr L as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs and Mr L to decide whether it was suitable.  
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mrs and Mr L took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were greater 
than Mrs and Mr Ls likely savings at the time, and would in any case have allowed them to 
keep those in reserve for longer; and the cost wasnt significantly high. So, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely fuller information would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs and Mr L would have been affected by any of these. 
So I cant say the PPI was mis-sold. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs and Mr L because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs and Mr L about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mrs and Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr L.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mrs and Mr L any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman