DRN-3252028
The complaint
Mr H has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined the claim he made for 
unemployment on his mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
Mr H has also commented on the role of his lender who originally sold and administered the 
policy. However, they have no responsibility for declining Mr Hs claim. As such, this decision 
is solely focused on AXA Insurance UK Plc as the underwriter of the policy.
What happened
Mr Hs employer experienced a fall in business in March 2020 due to the Covid pandemic 
and he was placed on furlough at that time. Unfortunately, the company was unable to 
recover and Mr H became unemployed in August 2020 after the company went into 
administration. Mr H contacted AXA in September 2020 to set up his unemployment claim. 
AXA explained that, if the claim was accepted, the first payment would be due on 29 
November 2020 to cover the period 31 October to 29 November 2020, due to the 60 day 
deferment period on the policy.
On 7 October 2020 Mr H signed a contract for a new job, starting it on 14 October 2020. 
However, Mr H then left this new job with his last day being 12 November 2020.
Mr H expected his claim to continue after he was again out of work. This was because the 
policy allowed for claims to be suspended if claimants undertook any temporary work. 
However, AXA declined the claim on the basis that Mr H had make himself voluntarily 
redundant because he had resigned from a permanent job. However, it allowed Mr H to 
retain the £485.70 first payment that it had already made to him, when it had mistakenly 
understood his new job to be a temporary role.
Our adjudicator thought that AXA had acted fairly in declining the claim. Mr H disagrees with 
the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so I have taken account of the law, relevant rules and regulations and good industry 
practice.
The policy terms set out that AXA will:
allow suspension of a claim for Unemployment if You are offered temporary employment, 
training or further education.
The policy also set out the terms under which a policyholder isnt insured, one of these 
being:
Unemployment caused by or resulting fromYour resignation.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs employment contract which is indeed a permanent contract, which 
he does not dispute. However, Mr H feels that he was constructively dismissed rather than 
resigning. This is because, from day one of the job, he was unhappy with a number of the 
working practices of his new employer. In addition, there were two events, one on 4 
November 2020 and one on the 12 November 2020 where Mr H was threatened by 
members of the public whilst performing his duties (he was also injured by a piece of 
equipment on the second date). It was immediately after this second incident that Mr H 
decided that he no longer wanted to work for his new employer. Mr H thinks that AXA should 
look at what happened as exceptional circumstances in order to accept his claim. Mr H also 
says that the Job Centre reinstated his jobseekers allowance immediately, so they were 
happy to regard the new job as a temporary assignment.
As already mentioned, Mr H had taken on a permanent new role. Although it wasnt his ideal 
job, it was his intention to stay in it until the job market picked up to enable him to try and 
obtain more suitable employment. I can understand Mr Hs reasons for deciding to leave the 
job and that he felt very strongly that he was unable to continue with it. But, based on the 
available evidence, I consider it was reasonable for AXA to look at the circumstances and 
conclude that Mr H had resigned from his job. 
Whilst the Job Centre was able to reinstate his jobseekers allowance straight away, that is a 
matter for their procedures and discretion and does not mean that AXA should in turn set 
aside the terms of the policy to treat Mr Hs new job as temporary.
Mr H says that, when he had claimed previously in 2012, the policy had continued to pay out 
under very similar circumstances and treated a period of work as temporary. I dont have the 
full details of what happened in 2012/13. However, regardless of the underwriters decision 
in that particular case, Im not persuaded that it conveys an obligation on AXA to continue 
the claim in this instance. AXA is entitled to rely on the policy terms when assessing Mr Hs 
latest claim. 
I am sorry for the situation that Mr H finds himself in. He clearly wants to work but felt unable 
to continue in his new job. But, as Mr H resigned from a permanent job, it was reasonable of 
AXA to decline the claim but to allow Mr H to retain the first payment it made as a gesture of 
goodwill. It follows that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and make no award 
against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman