DRN-3988251
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) wouldnt let him 
keep his car after it was written off following an accident  which led to him pursuing the third 
party himself. And that, while the car was with Havens salvage agents, it sustained further 
damage.
What happened
At the end of 2021, a dustbin lorry dropped a bin onto Mr Hs car, causing damage to the 
boot, rear bumper, and lights. So Mr H called Haven to make a claim on his car insurance 
policy. Because the model was no longer made, and parts were difficult to source, Haven 
decided to treat Mr Hs car as a total loss.
Mr H wanted to keep the car. But Haven told him he couldnt do that, as the car was a total 
loss. They offered him a cash settlement. But Mr H said he preferred to keep the car and 
would withdraw his claim and pursue the third party himself. He requested his car  which 
had been collected by Havens salvage agents  be returned to him.
When he got the car back, Mr H found it was now also damaged at the front. He complained 
to Haven about this and requested the cost of getting this additional damage repaired. And 
he complained about Havens decision not to allow him to keep the car if he made a claim.
In relation to the complaint about not being able to retain his car, Haven repeated their policy 
terms didnt allow this in a total loss claim. In relation to the additional damage, Haven liaised 
with their salvage agents and offered Mr H £150 to get this repaired.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Havens response and brought his complaint to our service. He 
told us £150 wasnt enough to repair the damage the car sustained in the salvage agents 
care and provided a quote demonstrating repairs would cost just over £1,500.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Haven needed to do more to 
resolve it. He said the policy terms allowed Haven to keep the vehicle if they paid Mr H the 
market value. But Mr H had elected to have his car returned and deal directly with the third 
party. So the investigator said Haven didnt need to do more in respect of this part of the 
complaint.
But he did think Haven should pay Mr H the amount hed been quoted for repairs. The 
investigator said hed asked Haven to provide a breakdown showing the work could be done 
for £150  but hed not received one. In the absence of that information, he relied on Mr Hs 
quote as a fair reflection of what the additional repairs would cost.
Haven didnt agree with our investigators view and asked their in-house engineer to review 
Mr Hs quote. Having done that, the engineer suggested making Mr H an offer of £500. Mr H 
didnt accept this. So Haven instructed an engineer to complete a physical inspection.  The 
report from the inspection said it would cost £1,659.16 to complete the repairs. An updated 
quote from Mr H increased the cost of repairs to £1,553.53.
I didnt entirely agree with our investigators view.  So I made a provisional decision.  
I agreed that Haven should pay Mr H what it would cost him to have the damage incurred 
while the car was with their salvage agent repaired.  I explained my role isnt to penalise 
Haven  so I wouldnt make them pay more than this amount, even though Havens quote 
was slightly higher.
But I didnt think it was fair for Haven to refuse to let Mr H keep his car when hed expressly 
asked to do that.  I explained that in these circumstances, wed usually expect an insurer to 
allow this, but to deduct the salvage value from the settlement.  Haven had refused to do this 
but - beyond referring to the policy terms - hadnt explained why.  In the absence of any 
explanation, I thought that decision was unfair.  So I provisionally decided Haven should also 
pay Mr H £250 compensation.
Both parties have now commented.  So the matters been passed back to me to make a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint for broadly the same reasons as I set in 
my provisional decision and which are outlined above.  Ill explain why in more detail.
Haven didnt comment on my provisional decision that their refusal to allow Mr H to keep his 
car.  Mr H expanded on his reasons for wanting this, but nothing he said led me to change 
my view on this. 
In relation to the cost of repairing the damage caused while the car was with the salvage 
agent, Haven said they needed to know whether the third party made any deductions from 
the settlement they paid Mr H.  At my request, the investigator asked Mr H for more 
information about this.
Before Mr H withdrew the claim submitted to them, Haven offered him a settlement of 
£5,051.84.  Mr H provided evidence to show he received a settlement of £3,615.60, net of 
salvage, from the third party.  
I cant comment on the settlement Mr H received from the third party.  But Im satisfied from 
what Ive seen it doesnt include the additional repair costs for the damage at the salvage 
agents.  
Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional decision, my role here is to put Mr H in the position where 
he can repair the car at no cost to himself.  Hes shown he can get that work done for 
£1,553.53. So thats what I think Haven should pay him for repairs to the additional work. 
Ive noted that, in their response to my view, Haven accepted they should pay Mr H £250 
compensation for the inconvenience their refusal to let him keep his car caused.  In the 
absence of any information to persuade me otherwise, Im satisfied thats reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about Haven Insurance 
Company Limited and have provisionally decided Haven should pay him:£1,553.53 for the cost of repairing the damage to his car while it was in their agents 
care; and
£250 compensation for the inconvenience of having to withdraw his claim and pursue 
the third party himself so he could keep the car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman