DRN-3816830
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by PrisWM Limited to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
Concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the security of 
his pension, Mr H sought advice and he met with PrisWM Limited in August 2017.
PrisWM Limited recorded some information about Mr Hs circumstances in a fact-find. It 
noted that he was 44, married with two dependent children. He was employed earning 
approximately £43,000. His wife was self-employed and she earned around £9,500. They 
had a mortgage on their home of approximately £95,000, which Mr H was hoping to reduce 
the term of so that it ended when he reached 57. While the liabilities section of the fact-find 
was blank, the income and expenditure section indicated Mr H had a loan as well as credit 
card debt of around £16,000. Mr H had no savings or investments and Mr and Mrs Hs joint 
monthly expenditure was around £2,069.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr H with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £459,939.49.
PrisWM Limited issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability report) on 
21 September 2017. This said Mr Hs aim was to retire as early as possible and to draw an 
income greater than the scheme would provide from age 57. It said he wanted flexibility to 
allow him to reduce his income when his state pension became payable. It said he wanted 
the option to take a higher level of income in the early years, which his DB scheme couldnt 
provide. It also said Mr H wanted his beneficiaries to benefit from the full pension fund upon 
his death and that he was worried about his life expectancy.
PrisWM Limited recommended that Mr H transfer his pension as this would provide him with 
increased death benefits; increased flexibility to retire from 55 and allow for a higher income 
in early retirement if possible; address his concerns about the scheme and his worry about 
ending up in the PPF; and to provide for a higher tax-free cash lump sum. PrisWM Limited 
recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was in line with his medium attitude 
to risk.
Mr H complained to PrisWM Limited in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In 
essence he said he didnt think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was 
suitable for him. 
PrisWM Limited didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said the transfer was suitable because 
Mr H couldnt meet his objectives by remaining in the DB scheme. It said he wanted to retire 
at 57 and draw a higher income than the DB scheme provided and he wanted increased 
death benefits. It also said increased flexibility was a key driver of his and the ability to draw 
funds as when required.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr H asked us to consider his complaint. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and they upheld it. They thought the advice was 
unsuitable because at age 44 it was too early for Mr H to make the irreversible decision to 
transfer his pension when he was uncertain when he would retire and what his needs would 
be. They said any concerns Mr H had about this scheme couldve been better managed by 
PrisWM Limited. They said death benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over providing for 
Mr Hs retirement income needs. And they said Mr H wouldve been worse off in retirement 
as a result of transferring due to the growth rates required to match his scheme benefits. 
They said if suitable advice had been given, Mr H wouldve retained his DB scheme benefits 
and then opted to join the BSPS2.
PrisWM Limited said that it was willing to accept the Investigators findings and wanted to 
close the complaint by offering any redress due. 
Because Mr H chose not to accept PrisWM Limiteds offer to settle things informally, the 
complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PrisWM Limited's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PrisWM 
Limited should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Hs best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. And because Im mindful 
that PrisWM Limited has accepted the Investigators findings, I have summarised my 
findings as far as possible.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that PrisWM Limited was required to 
carry out by the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Hs pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme  was 9.3% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the 
scheme at age 57 (his target retirement age.) Or to match the maximum tax-free 
cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at that age, was 7.5%. To 
match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 57 the critical yield was 7.5% and 
to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 
7.2%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point PrisWM Limited instructed the TVAS that 
continuing in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr H, the analysis 
was based on the BSPS benefits. I think PrisWM Limited shouldve waited for the 
BSPS2 details and included this in its analysis. In any event, given what we know 
about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve 
provided from age 57 were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Hs recorded medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.0% for 12 
years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr H was 
always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 57, of a lower value that those 
hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. And given what the TVAS noted about the critical 
yields for retirement at age 65  that for the existing scheme these were still above 
6% and for the PPF just under 5%  I think he was still likely to receive lower 
benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF offered, even if he retired at 65. And 
indeed the suitability report noted that the returns were unachievable.  
So for this reason alone, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests to transfer out of 
his DB scheme.
PrisWM Limited recommended the transfer to provide increased flexibility - to allow 
Mr H to retire early from age 57 and because he would like a higher income in early 
retirement if possible. But at 44, Im not persuaded Mr H had likely given any serious thought to his retirement or reasonably understood what his needs would be some 12 
or more years in the future. Indeed the advisers file note records: He isn't sure that 
he will take his tax-free cash or will retire at age 57... It strikes me a target age of 57 
was simply based on the earliest date legislation would allow Mr H to take his 
benefits.
Mr H no doubt liked the idea of retiring early. But he already had this option available 
to him  he didnt have to transfer to achieve things. And no doubt he was attracted 
to the flexibility a personal pension provided. But I think this was simply a feature or a 
consequence of transferring to a personal pension rather than a genuine objective of 
Mr Hs. I dont think he had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement  
how would he reasonably know at this stage that hed want or need a higher income 
in the early years of his retirement to then reduce it later on? And nothing indicates 
he had an apparent need for a cash lump sum and defer taking an income or a 
capital expenditure need that required access to a larger lump sum than his DB 
pension would provide.
 
In any event, Mr H already had flexibility  something it appears PrisWM Limited 
overlooked. He was contributing to his workplace pension scheme  a defined-
contribution (DC) scheme, which already provided flexibility in how and when he 
could access his benefits. Given the likely combined employer/employee contribution 
rate being made to this, I think this had the potential to provide Mr H with a not 
insignificant pension pot at his chosen retirement age. And I think this couldve given 
him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided. So I dont think 
transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests.
Mr Hs income need was recorded as being £20,400 - £21,600 a year. But again, 
I dont think he could reasonably know at this time what hed need when he retired. 
And PrisWM Limited doesnt appear to have carried out a detailed income and 
expenditure in retirement analysis to interrogate this figure or determine if it was 
realistic. Its also not clear whether this was an expected total household income 
need or an amount in addition to what his wife earned from running their small 
business. But based on Mr Hs current household expenditure of around £2,000 a 
month, and given this included more than £1,200 of mortgage and other debt 
repayment, which wasnt likely to remain at retirement, I think its likely this was a 
joint or total household need.
According to PrisWM Limited, Mr Hs DB pension income was estimated to be 
around £12,290 a year at 57 (reduced pension basis plus lump sum). It was recorded 
that he intended to work in their business when he stopped working in his current 
employment, so it appears the intention was for this income stream to continue and 
perhaps grow with his increased involvement. So, if the income figure was a total 
household figure, I think Mr Hs DB scheme income plus the recorded income from 
the business of around £9,500, supplemented where necessary by Mr Hs DC 
scheme pension, couldve likely satisfied their joint income need  at least until their 
state pensions became payable.  
But ultimately, without a detailed understanding of Mr Hs true needs in retirement, 
I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer at this time. His DB scheme 
provided a guaranteed and escalating income for life, which wasnt likely to be 
bettered by transferring. So, in the circumstances, I think retaining his DB scheme 
was a more appropriate way for Mr H to meet his future retirement needs rather than 
risking his guaranteed benefits in an attempt to do so.PrisWM Limited also recommend the transfer to provide better death benefits. But 
the priority here was to advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve 
been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr H drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr H may have thought it would. 
If Mr H had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, PrisWM Limited couldve properly 
explored life insurance as an alternative. I can see it referred to a quote for a whole 
of life policy with a sum assured of £200,000 at £170 a month (guaranteed), which  
was discounted on cost and because Mr H could achieve things by transferring. But 
this couldve been considered on a term assurance basis  which was likely to be 
cheaper. But there's little evidence PrisWM Limited did so.
I acknowledge that Mr H had a health condition and he appears to have had 
concerns about his life expectancy. But Mr H not reaching his expectancy was only a 
possibility and it was also possible that he would exceed this, in which case hed 
need his pension to last longer. If he transferred out of the DB scheme hed be 
relying on investment returns to ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal 
pension to provide the death benefits, whereas the spouses/dependents pension 
was guaranteed and escalated.   
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately PrisWM Limited should not have 
encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
Mr H may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was PrisWM Limiteds role to 
objectively address those concerns. If it had waited for the details of the BSPS2 and 
used the benefits available to him in its analysis and advice this might have gone 
some way to addressing his concerns about the new scheme. But even if not, the 
PPF still provided Mr H with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free 
cash. Mr H was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the 
PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he 
held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Hs best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. And I also havent seen 
anything to persuade me that Mr H wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to 
remain in the DB scheme  he had no real investment knowledge or experience and nothing 
suggests to me that he otherwise had the requisite confidence or skill to do so.
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr H received from PrisWM Limited 
was unsuitable for him.
I can see the Investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr H. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
PrisWM  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on Mr H. Taking 
everything into account, including what hes said about the worry he has not knowing 
whether hell have enough money in retirement, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him 
some distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider with no firm plans to 
retire early, Mr H would most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and 
moved with it to the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
PrisWM Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
PrisWM Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to M H and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of 
what PrisWM Limited based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no firm plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age (65), as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PrisWM Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts PrisWM Limiteds offer to calculate how much of their redress could 
be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in line with DISP App 4, PrisWM Limited may make a notional deduction to cash lump 
sum payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from 
their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% 
would have been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require PrisWM Limited to pay 
Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
PrisWM Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on PrisWM Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman