DRN-3339536
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Agria Pet Insurance Ltd (Agria) mis-sold him a lifetime pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L phoned Agria to take out a pet insurance policy in November 2018. He asked the 
salesperson about future price increases for the policy premiums. The salesperson told him 
the premium would only go up with inflation. Mr L took out the policy and each time the 
policy renewed the premiums increased by more than inflation. So, Mr L complained.
When Agria replied, it accepted that the salesperson had given him incorrect information by 
saying the premiums would only increase by inflation. It said premiums were affected by a 
range of factors including vets fee increases, the age and breed of the pet, the policyholders 
location and the benefits included in the policy. It offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
So, Mr L complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Agria had now explained how it calculated premiums and, in her view, this was done in a fair 
and reasonable way. She said the compensation offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
As Mr L didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When taking out an insurance policy, customers should be given information thats clear, fair 
and not misleading. In Mr Ls case, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that Agria provided 
incorrect information about how policy premiums were calculated. I think policy premiums 
are a significant factor that can often affect whether someone chooses to take out a 
particular policy. Mr L was given wrong information about how the premiums were 
calculated, so I think he was mis-sold the policy.
So, Ive thought about what should happen as a result of this. Im aware Mr L has paid 
higher premiums than he expected to and that he wants the difference in policy costs 
refunded, as well as some compensation. Despite providing the wrong information, from 
what Ive seen, Agria charged for the policy in line with its underwriting criteria. So, I dont 
think it needs to refund any of the premiums, but I do think it needs to pay some 
compensation.
Mr L seemed to be looking at other policies at the time he took out this policy because he 
asked how the Agria premium calculations compared to that of another insurer. The 
salesperson explained that Agrias premiums would only go up by inflation and also how 
different this was to other insurers. So, I think Mr L was always likely to have taken out a 
lifetime pet insurance policy and I think he was considering other insurers. But I think its 
unlikely Mr L would have found an insurer who would have offered similar cover without 
increasing the premiums, so I think Mr L was likely to take out this policy anyway, or one 
very similar, even if Agria had given him the correct information. However, understandably, 
the increase in premiums was unexpected and significantly more than Mr L had been led to 
believe and would have come as a shock to him.
From what Ive seen, the first time the policy renewed, Mr L expected to pay £593.29. 
However, the renewal premium was £766.75. The next time the policy renewed, Mr L 
expected to pay £602.32, but the renewal premium was £958.81. So, over the two years, Mr 
L was asked to pay just over £500 more than he had expected. I think that was a significant 
amount and that it will have come as a shock to Mr L to be asked to pay these amounts for 
the lifetime policy to continue, particularly given what he was told when he first took out the 
policy.
Im also aware that Mr L made a claim under the policy. Previous claims are often taken into 
account by insurers when offering cover and when calculating premiums, so this could affect 
the terms Mr L is offered by other insurers. However, I havent currently seen anything to 
suggest that the claim was for an ongoing condition, which might have had a further and 
significant impact on any terms offered. The dog is also still fairly young, which makes it less 
likely that its age would make it difficult for Mr L to find another policy if he wants to be 
insured by another provider.
So, thinking about all of the above, I currently intend to say that Agria should pay Mr L a total 
of £250 compensation, which includes the £100 Agria has already paid. I think this better 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr L by the actions of Agria when it sold 
him the policy. Mr L was given incorrect information about how the premiums were 
calculated so didnt understand that the premiums would go up by as much as it has.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 March 2022. Both parties responded before that date.
Mr L said he wasnt fully satisfied with my decision. Ive summarised his comments below:
There was no dispute that the policy was mis-sold, which meant he paid more than he 
should have. He said at the very least he should be refunded the amount he had been 
led to pay through the actions of mis-selling.
Mr L again provided the calculations of how much he paid compared with what he had 
expected to pay.
Mr L felt robbed and cheated out of the money and that Agria had been left in a more 
profitable situation through its mis-selling.
Mr L was at a loss about how this service, which was in place to protect customers from 
mis-selling and make decisions on fairness, hadnt come to the conclusion that the 
overpaid money should be repaid in full. This included because he was lied to in order to 
gain the sale and to take payments larger than those promised.
This was different to compensation and was simply putting right the wrong. Mr L asked 
me again to look at this and for the overpayments to be paid back in full.
Any compensation also should be meaningful, which Agrias offer of £100 wasnt.
Mr L felt he had been let down by Agria and this service.
Mr L wasnt aware of receiving the payment of £100 from Agria.
If Agria didnt pay back the additional amount he paid through the mis-selling, he would 
consider the next step as taking it to the small claims court.
Agria agreed to pay £250 compensation, including the £100 it had already offered.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive carefully considered the points made by Mr L, but 
this doesnt change my view about how this complaint should be resolved. 
My role is to make an impartial decision based on the circumstances of the case. I 
understand Mr Ls strong views about this case and his reasons for them. However, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, Agria charged Mr L the correct premiums based on its 
underwriting criteria. So, I dont think Agria needs to refund the premiums. I remain of the 
view that the way to resolve this case is through compensation and that £250 is an 
appropriate amount based on the circumstances of what happened.
Putting things right
Agria should pay Mr L a total of £250 compensation, including the £100 it previously offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Agria Pet Insurance Ltd to pay Mr L a total of £250 
compensation, including the £100 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman