DRN-4189357
The complaint
Mrs L complains that the Non-Protected Rights (NPR) part of her Personal Pension (PP) 
plan held with Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) unfairly lapsed without a value. This was in 
stark contrast to the performance on the PR part of her PP. 
What happened
Mrs L has a PP that she originally took out with a business that has since become part of 
Zurich. She started the PP on 1 April 1989. The plan comprised NPR benefits and former 
Protected Rights benefits. And was used to contract out of the State Second Pension (S2P), 
formerly known as the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). 
Mrs Ls application form for the PP shows that she chose to invest as follows:
MANAGED 50%, EQUITY 30%, PROPERTY 20%.
Mrs L made personal contributions into the plan between 1989 and 1991, with the last 
payment made on 1 July 1991. The total personal contributions made was £539.28, with 
£179.92 of basic rate tax relief. The overall total was £719.
A total of £2,496.81 PR contributions were also made on behalf of Mrs L in for the tax years 
from 1987 through to 1990. A total of five separate payments were received by the plan 
between 1 September 1989 and 1 September 1991. 
Zurich said it wrote to Mrs L in 2012 to confirm that from 6 April 2012 the Government had 
removed the choice to contract out from S2P, so no further former PR payments were 
expected.
Mrs L said she decided to review all of her pensions in 2021. She said that when she 
contacted Zurich about the value of her PP, she discovered that the NPR part of her PP had 
lapsed without value in December 2010. But the PR part was valued at £31,221.62 in 
January 2022.
Mrs L asked Zurich to explain the situation. She was unhappy that the NPR had lapsed 
without value. She felt that if the NPR funds had been invested in the same way as the PR 
funds, they wouldve had a value of around £8,890. 
Mrs L also asked Zurich to provide annual statements from February 2000 to February 2011, 
so that she could see what had happened to her NPR. But Zurich told her it didnt hold 
historic copies of the annual statements shed requested. 
Mrs L complained to Zurich in November 2022 about the NPR benefits in her PP. She said 
that a 20 January 2022 letter from Zurich showed that shed paid a total of £719 of personal 
contributions into her plan. And a further letter had shown the value of these as of 11 
February 2000 was £643.78. Mrs L wanted to know why her NPR funds hadnt been 
invested in the same way as her PR funds. She also felt that the charges Zurich had applied 
had been unreasonably high, and out of proportion to the investment amount.
Mrs L felt that Zurich should correct the position of her NPR fund to what she felt they 
wouldve been worth now, had they been invested in the same funds as her PR funds. She 
also felt it should compensate her for the inconvenience and stress caused by her complaint. 
Zurich issued its final response to the complaint on 7 December 2022. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It said itd invested Mrs Ls funds in line with her application for the PP. 
And itd administered her PP in line with its terms and conditions. Zurich also said that the 
charges and the lack of contributions, as well as the volatility of the stock market, had led to 
the NPR lapsing without value. It also said that it hadnt been able to let Mrs L know about 
this at the time as it didnt hold an address for her at that point. 
Mrs L wasnt happy with Zurichs response. So she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said hed seen no evidence 
that Zurich had applied the charges incorrectly. Or that the plan had been invested 
incorrectly.  
Mrs L didnt think our investigator had fully addressed the crux of her complaint, which was 
why her NPR contributions hadnt been invested in the same way, with the same charges, as 
the PR contributions. She said Zurich had acknowledged that Capital units grew at a lesser 
rate than Accumulation units. And that the charges for the Capital units were higher than 
those for Accumulation units.
Mrs L also said that Zurich had told her that when she reached her selected retirement age 
of 50, it wouldve converted the Capital units to Accumulation units. But this was already too 
late for her to benefit from, as the value of her NPR had already lapsed to zero before then. 
She felt this had been due to the excessive charges of the Capital units relative to those of 
the Accumulation units: 3.5% plus an Annual Management Charge (AMC) of 0.75% for the 
Capital units compared with an effective annual charge of zero for the Accumulation units.
Mrs L queried whether her application form showed that shed actively selected Capital units 
rather than Accumulation units for her NPR. She asked why she wouldve done so. And felt 
that all of the contributions into her PP, both NPR and PR, shouldve been invested in the 
better growth rate Accumulation units. Had this happened, she wouldve now been better off. 
So she felt that Zurich should correct the value of her NPR to what it wouldve been if itd 
been invested in the same Accumulation units as those for her PR.
Our investigator shared a copy of the terms and conditions of the PP with Mrs L, which he 
said he felt wouldve been shared with her at the plans inception. He referred her to the 
section covering Capital and Accumulations units and the section which covered Unit 
Allocations. While he acknowledged that the terms and conditions was a long and detailed 
document, he said it had been Mrs Ls duty to read before she had started her plan. And that 
she couldve raised any issues shed had with the charges at the time.
Our investigator also shared with Mrs L a copy of the application form shed completed, 
noting that it didnt cover Capital and Accumulation units. But he said it did confirm that Mrs 
L had wanted to have 50% of her funds in the Managed Fund, 20% in the Property Fund and 
30% in the Equity Fund. He said he couldnt see any evidence that Zurich had invested the 
funds outside what Mrs L had requested. 
Mrs L didnt think there was anything in either the terms and conditions, or the application 
form, which stated that her NPR contributions would be invested in Capital units. She 
confirmed that neither the choice of funds, nor their performance, was the issue here. 
Instead, she said it was the fact that Zurich had decided to invest all her NPR contributions 
into Capital units, with higher charges and lower growth, whilst the PR were all invested in Accumulation units with lower charges and higher growth. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I can see that Mrs L feels very strongly about her 
complaint, so I know my decision will be disappointing. Ill explain the reasons for it.
I should perhaps first explain the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulatory body. 
The Financial Conduct Authority regulates financial services firms and financial markets in 
the UK. But what Im considering here is whether Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way it applied charges to Mrs Ls plan. 
I first want to give a brief background to the charging structure being used for Mrs Ls plan. 
The charging structure
In some older plans like this one, any regular contributions in early years were often used to 
buy or Capital units. These were sometimes called Initial units. These had a higher annual 
charge than Accumulation units, which were bought with the contributions later on. 
The reason for this was that the provider had usually paid an initial commission or salary to 
the adviser. This assumed that the consumer would pay into their plan for the whole term up 
to retirement, whether they actually did so or not. So the provider recouped most of the costs 
from the premiums paid into the plan in the early years.
If a consumer didnt continue to contribute to the plan for very long, a bigger proportion of the 
plan would be made up of Capital units, compared to the situation if the contributions had 
continued in full to the consumers retirement date. Capital units attracted a higher annual 
charge as a percentage of the units invested. So this meant that the average charge per unit 
was higher if contributions ended early. 
The smaller the pension value, the higher proportion of the plan was taken up in charges. So 
its not uncommon to see plans lapse without any value altogether before the consumer 
reaches retirement. 
Stopping or significantly reducing contributions part of the way through the policy also meant 
the consumer could be paying higher overall charges for the policy than set out in the 
illustration they were given by the adviser, because this wouldve assumed contributions 
continued up to retirement. 
I next considered the specifics of what happened to Mrs L.
Mrs Ls specific situation
I understand that Mrs L only made personal contributions into her PP for a little over two 
years. 
The plans policy provisions state that NPR contributions made during the first two years will 
be used to purchase Capital units, rather than Accumulation units. As noted above, these 
units were subject to higher charges than the Accumulation units which wouldve been purchased after two years if Mrs L had still been making contributions.
Because Mrs Ls NPR fund was composed of predominantly Capital units, given when her 
contributions stopped, the charges reduced its growth, eventually leading to its value lapsing 
to zero. 
Zurich said that the plan has been administered in line with the plan terms and conditions. 
And that a copy of these would have been sent to Mrs L at the time the policy started.
Zurich further stated that in the first two years, the plan only purchased Capital units and 
those units incurred a 3.5% charge throughout. It also said that these units incurred the 
whole of the AMC and grew at a lesser rate than the Accumulation units. It said that as a Mrs 
Ls NPR fund was mostly held in Capital units, the charges were higher than if payments had 
continued. If they had, Accumulation units wouldve been purchased.
Zurich also said that the PR element of Mrs Ls plan only ever purchased Accumulation units 
as there werent any setting up charges for this part.
Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of the plan. They confirmed that in the first 
two years Zurich correctly purchased Capital units with the NPR contributions. These 
incurred a 3.5% charge throughout the term of the plan. The Capital units also incurred the 
whole of the AMC and grew at a lesser rate that the Accumulation units.
The terms and conditions also confirmed the AMC is reinvested into the plan to buy 
additional units; so it isnt a charge to the plan.
The Capital units remain in place and incur the additional 3.5% Capital unit charge from 
inception until the selected retirement age. At the selected retirement age, the Capital units 
are converted to Accumulation units. Unfortunately, due to the NPR contributions only 
continuing for a little over two years, Mrs Ls NPR fund had lapsed to zero before she 
reached her selected retirement age. 
I acknowledge that Mrs L considers shes been treated unfairly, as she believes that her 
NPR contributions shouldve been invested in Capital units from the start of her plan. But I 
cant fairly agree. 
I say this because the plan terms and conditions stated that Accumulation units would only 
start to be purchased after two years for the NPR contributions. And as Mrs L didnt 
contribute for much longer than two years, she wouldve only built up a small proportion of 
Accumulation units with her NPR contributions. The plan charges had to be paid for in some 
way. And they wouldnt have been covered if all of Mrs Ls NPR contributions were invested 
in Accumulation units from the start. Therefore I cant reasonably say that Zurich has treated 
Mrs L unfairly. Or that it has failed to follow the terms and conditions of her plan. 
I acknowledge that Mrs L doesnt consider it fair that the PR part of her plan and the NPR 
part of her plan have been treated so differently. But Im satisfied that both were correctly 
administered under the terms and conditions of the plan. 
Therefore I cant fairly say that Zurich has done anything wrong. And I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman