DRN-3207307
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has declined their travel
insurance claim.
Any reference to URV also includes its agents. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs F booked a trip abroad for approximately three months,
departing in January 2020. Their trip would include travel to several different countries. At
the same time, Mr and Mrs F purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, insured with
URV.
Mr and Mrs F started their trip but on 15 March 2020 the next country they were due to visit
introduced self-isolation measures for arriving travellers, as a result of the Covid-19
outbreak. In addition, it announced it would be closing its borders on 19 March 2020. The
period of time theyd have needed to isolate for was longer than their planned trip to that
particular country. Also, on 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth &
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO))
advised against all but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result of
being unable to continue with their planned travel, Mr and Mrs F decided to cut short their
trip and flew back to the UK on 20 March 2020, using their original return flights which they
were able to amend for an additional cost. On 23 March 2020 the FCDO instructed all UK
citizens travelling abroad to return home.
Upon returning to the UK, Mr and Mrs F made a claim to URV for the additional costs for the
amended flights and the unused proportion of their trip, including flights and accommodation,
for which they were unable to receive a refund. URV declined the claim as it said the policy
didnt provide cover for the curtailment of a trip for those circumstances. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs F complained to URV and brought their complaint
to this service. An investigator looked into the matter and didnt think that URV had acted
fairly. She accepted that the policy didnt specifically include cover for the circumstances that 
caused Mr and Mrs F to return home early, however, she still thought it was fair and
reasonable for URV to consider the claim. She recommended that URV accept the claim as
covered under the curtailment section and reconsider the claim under the remaining policy
terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs F accepted our investigators view but URV didnt. It reiterated that cover is not
provided for the situation Mr and Mrs F were placed in. URV said that Mr and Mrs F had a
14-day cooling off period following the purchase of the policy in which to read the terms and
conditions and decide if it was right for them or receive their money back.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 17 November 2021, I issued my provisional decision in which I said the following:
Our investigator identified, and set out, relevant industry rules and guidance. I agree those
are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. Ive
also considered the relevant law (including the unfair terms provision in the Consumer Right
Act 2015).
The policy terms and conditions
The policy Mr and Mrs F hold includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided.
On page 17 of the wording, under the heading Section B1  Curtailment charges (if you
have to come home early), the policy says it will pay for certain costs if a trip is curtailed for
any of the following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct 
result of pregnancy of
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
a) any person who you have arranged to stay with
b) your close relative
c) your close business associate
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or 
Ambulance 'Services or employees of a Government Department and have 
your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, 
provided that the curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the 
time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
4. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home 
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, 
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles malicious people or 
theft.
There is no definition of the word quarantined.
On page 12, the policy terms say, under the heading What is not covered  applicable to all
sections of the policy:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from
14. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the travel advice unit of the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country
to/from which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
In addition to the policy terms, URV provided Mr and Mrs F with an Insurance Product
Information Document (IPID) designed to provide a summary of the cover.
On page two of the IPID it includes a section titled Where am I covered? and within this
section it states:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. Forfurther details, visit: www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice
Was the claim declined unfairly?
The policy terms detailed above show that curtailing a trip as a result of FCDO advice isnt
one of the specific, listed events for which cover is provided. And having reviewed the
remaining terms and conditions, I dont think there is another section of the policy which
would provide cover for the circumstances Mr and Mrs F found themselves in. So, I agree on
strict interpretation of the policy terms, Mr and Mrs Fs claim simply isnt covered by the
terms of their contract.
But I must also consider what I think is fair and reasonable in the overall circumstances of
the case, taking into account the industry rules Ive already mentioned and the relevant law.
Having thought about this case very carefully, I currently dont think that applying the strict
interpretation of the policy terms produces a fair and reasonable outcome here. Ill explain
why.
On 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr and Mrs F were due to continue their travels to
another country on 22 March 2020, several days after this advice came in. So, its likely that,
by travelling on to another country, theyd have not been covered by the policy if theyd
continued their trip as planned.
And, under the terms and conditions of the policy, curtailment of a holiday due to changes in
FCDO guidance also isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear
to Mr and Mrs F within the policy documents that were provided to them.
URV said Mr and Mrs F chose to purchase the policy without this protection as they had 14
days following the sale in which to check that it was right for them. However, Mr and Mrs F
would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that
the situation they found themselves in wasnt covered. And, I dont think that this information
was brought to their attention in a clear, prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the
combined effect of the policy terms were made sufficiently clear to them.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs F and
URV. Im of the opinion that, if Mr and Mrs F had realised there was no cover under the 
policy if they needed to curtail their trip because FCDO guidance changed, its likely they
would have been able to find an alternative policy elsewhere which did provide the cover
they needed.
In reaching my conclusion Ive also taken into account that, in any event, Mr and Mrs F
would have been instructed to return home by the FCDO on 23 March 2020 and, had they
stayed abroad, theyd have been staying abroad against FCDO advice. So, its also unlikely
theyd have been covered under the policy from that date if theyd decided to stay abroad.
Given that Mr and Mrs F didnt incur significant costs to rearrange their return flight I dont
think there was a significant prejudice to URVs position by their decision to return a few
days before that advice came into place. If anything, its likely that their decision to amend
their flights and return home minimised the costs that they seek to recover from URV. As Im
not satisfied that the impact of the FCDO exclusion was made clear, this further persuades
me its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs Fs claim to be reconsidered under the curtailment
section of the policy.
URV has also commented that the FCDO exclusion was already in place prior to the
pandemic becoming a known entity and so it doesnt think this should be used as a basis forcover. But I dont think this is the case here. Rather the pandemic has merely highlighted
that the exclusion relating to changes in FCDO advice has not been detailed in a clear and
prominent manner.
So, therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for URV to treat Mr and Mrs Fs claim as
covered under the curtailment section of their policy. URV should assess the claim under the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Both parties replied to the provisional decision and confirmed they had no further comments 
to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional comments or evidence for me to consider 
following my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my previously reached 
outcome.
Putting things right
URV must treat Mr and Mrs Fs claim as covered under the curtailment section of their 
policy. URV should assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I uphold this complaint.
I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman