DRN-3234977
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) have not 
settled their claim fairly under their building insurance policy and that there were delays and 
poor communication. They want the claim paid and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E flat was damaged by a water leak from the property above and they contacted 
Admiral on 24 September 2020. They said as there was damage to the only bedroom and 
bathroom as well as to their contents, they arranged alternative accommodation (AA) at a 
local hotel. Admiral appointed a loss adjuster (Ill call S) and said it would contact them. Mr 
and Mrs E decided to appoint a loss assessor (Ill call A) to act for them. Admiral advised 
them to tell A to liaise with S. 
Mr and Mrs E say there were many delays, with them and A continually having to chase 
Admiral and S over many months to progress the claim. A complaint was recorded on 4 
December 2020 about delays and poor communication. Admiral subsequently paid Mr and 
Mrs E £150 as a gesture of goodwill over this. 
There was disagreement between S and A about the scope of works. S said the property 
was in poor condition and if Admirals contractor carried out repairs this would be betterment 
(making an improvement) which the policy didnt cover. It said the claim should be cash 
settled, but that the bathroom hadnt been damaged and shouldnt be included. A disagreed 
and provided photographs of water leaking through the bathroom ceiling. It also disputed Ss 
settlement figure for the bedroom, which was much less than its own. 
In early February 2021 Admiral settled the contents claim, and an asbestos test was 
authorised for the bedroom ceiling. On 19 March 2021 S advised Mrs E that it had increased 
the cash settlement figure to £3,064.71, to include a 65% contribution towards the bathroom. 
Mrs E didnt accept this. She raised a further complaint about this and delays on 1 April 
2021, saying £4,500 was needed to complete the works. 
On 6 April 2021 Admiral offered Mr and Mrs E a settlement, with a further months AA, less 
the policy excess, but it didnt include the bathroom. Mrs E complained the next day about 
the settlement amount and said that the excess had already been deducted for the contents 
claim. 
Admiral agreed there had been delays and poor communication. It said that the bathroom 
should have been included and the settlement was meant to be £3,064.71 which was correct 
as the policy wouldnt:
pay more than the amount it would have cost us to repair or replace the damage 
part using our own suppliers. 
It agreed the excess had already been deducted. Admiral paid Mr and Mrs E £500 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Mr and Mrs E referred their complaint to our 
service.  
Our investigator looked into it and she decided to uphold the complaint.
She said there had been delays and communication problems but thought the total of £650 
Admiral had paid in compensation for this was fair. 
Having considered the reports of S and A, she thought the settlement paid by Admiral had 
considered all the damage caused by the leak. She said the policy terms and conditions 
(T&Cs) said Admiral could either make repairs itself or offer a cash settlement instead. But 
she said if it wasnt prepared to do the work it wasnt fair to use discounted rates it could 
obtain from contractors. She said the settlement should be recalculated using the rates 
available to Mr and Mrs E.
Our investigator said the policy provided for AA costs until the flat was habitable again. 
Admiral had paid £12,749 in AA costs up until 6 May 2021. She said Mr and Mrs E 
completed much of the work themselves using professional contractors when necessary 
because the settlement was too low. She said they were in AA until 12 July 2021 when the 
work was completed, and it was fair that Admiral pay the further AA costs until then.
Mr and Mrs E agreed with our investigator, but Admiral did not. It said its T&Cs were clear 
that it would only pay what it would cost its suppliers to do the work. It said that it felt the 
repair time had been massively inflated. It said it had no choice but to cash settle the 
claim due to the initial poor state of the property and the amount of work that was unrelated 
to the home insurance claim. 
As Admiral doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurance claim is always going to cause inconvenience, particularly if substantial repairs 
are required. Whilst Admiral wasnt responsible for the leak how it handled the claim was 
important in minimising the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs E. But there were many 
avoidable delays and even Admirals file remarks on the difficulty it had in contacting or 
receiving updates from S. 
The cash settlement
There is some confusion here. Admirals file indicates it used As rates for calculating the 
settlement that were reduced by 35% for betterment. But it then told Mr and Mrs E and our 
service it had applied discounted rates to the settlement. Which I dont think would be fair if it 
wasnt prepared to undertake the work itself. 
The file says As estimate was reduced 35% on the bathroom in order to avoid betterment. 
This also seems to have been applied to the bedroom element of the claim, where I dont 
think any betterment was involved. Buildings insurance policies usually provide indemnity 
which means the aim is to put the policy holder back in the position they were in just before 
the loss or damage occurred. Policies dont usually cover wear and tear or pre-existing 
damage, which would be betterment.
I wanted to know if a reduction for betterment made a difference to applying a discounted 
rate or if it was all much the same. Based on the information on the file, it seemed arbitrary 
as originally S had wanted to reduce the settlement by 50% compared to As estimate. So, if 
there was a reduction for betterment I wanted to see if it was fair.  I asked Admiral for more information and it said everything was on the file already provided. 
The file has Ss initial appraisal carried out more than a month after the leak. This says most 
of the damage in the bathroom is pre-existing, but only gives the example of loose tiles, 
grout, and sealant near the shower tray. It said: 
liability for reinstatements would be limited to the bedroom ceiling, decorations and 
contents only. 
I have scoped the works actually required to reinstate the property. There is no 
requirement to carry out any work in the bathroom  The schedule total is 
£1,319.37 
A disputed this. After some delay, S agreed that the bathroom should be covered and 
offered £1,747.33 for this compared to As estimate of £2,688.20 and £1,347.38 for the 
bedroom compared to As estimate of £2,127.06. The overall difference between As and Ss 
assessments was around £1,720, a 35% reduction.
I asked Admiral what it thought it would cost to make an effective and lasting repair (the 
type of repair our service would expect an insurer to make) to the damaged caused by the 
incident claimed for. Admiral didnt provide any further information.
So, Ive looked at the bedroom and bathroom individually. 
The bedroom
There is more detail about the repairs needed in the bedroom with A and S concluding 
broadly the same. It doesnt appear there were betterment considerations here, although A 
gave a detailed breakdown and S didnt.  
S says that no drying was required as moisture readings were normal. As schedule 
(prepared earlier) included a drying test, costing £120 and an asbestos test which Admiral 
appears to have paid for, costed by A at £222. Taking these costs off As estimate reduces 
the difference between A and S to £437.68  about 20% less. Add them back on and the 
reduction compared to As estimate is around, perhaps coincidently, 35% less.
Admiral has either used a discounted rate or applied betterment. On the evidence Ive seen I 
dont think there was betterment and Admiral could have done the work itself. As it would 
not, I dont think using a discounted rate was reasonable as Mr and Mrs E were unlikely to 
be able to obtain the same discount. I think its fair that it should pay a further £437.68 in 
respect of this element of the claim.
The bathroom
There is less information about the bathroom. 
On 8 February 2021 Admiral told Mr E:
Advised we do not cover W&T, pre-exisiting or failed grout/sealent
Other notes refer to only the ceiling being damaged by the incident. The next day it tells Mrs 
E it might cover a patch repair (to the ceiling) and redecoration. A said there was damage to 
the walls and the electrics. Then a file note from 19 March 2021 says that S had now 
allowed a 65% contribution for the bathroom which Mr and Mrs E hadnt accepted, but this 
was the absolute maximum that would be agreed. Sometimes making an effective repair might involve making good pre-existing issues or work 
beyond the obvious damage to blend the old with the new. Fixings like tiles might need to be 
removed and then replaced to complete a repair. So, it might be fair that things like this be 
included in the claim as As assessment appears to do.
As estimate for the bathroom provided for it to be stripped out, the ceiling and walls to be 
replaced, then re-tiling and refitting of the bathroom suite, electric shower and replacement 
of the damaged extractor fan and redecoration. S says the walls werent damp when it 
attended and hadnt been damaged by the incident. 
I think its likely that if repairs were needed to the walls some would relate to pre-existing 
damage caused by loose tiles, failed grout and defective sealant around the shower noted 
by S and apparent in photographs. This does sound like wear and tear which the policy 
doesnt cover. So, on the evidence available I think some reduction in As estimate for the 
bathroom is fair. 
If the total cost relating to tiling of £663.63 is taken off As estimate for the bathroom of 
£2,688.20 the difference between As and Ss assessment is reduced to £277.22. Taking 
everything into consideration I think the settlement for the bathroom was reasonable to 
repair the damage caused by the incident.
The alternative accommodation
Admiral has paid the AA costs to 6 May 2021, but it doesnt want to pay the further costs to 
11 July 2021 of £4,554, which Mr and Mrs E say they paid on 26 July 2021. It says the work 
took too long and that it told Mr and Mrs E to notify it if there were delays beyond 6 May 
2021. I asked them about this, and they didnt recall being told this. The file refers to 
correspondence that isnt on it about the payment of AA after April 2021. I asked Admiral 
about this and it said this correspondence didnt exist. Mr and Mrs E say Admiral didnt 
discuss when the works could start, or how long they should take.  
Admirals file says S advised the works should take a month. It notes that consideration 
would need to be given to whether any contractor was available. As early as 14 January 
2021 Admirals file had notes about the need to address AA if the claim was cash settled 
and:
how would we implement this. As we would need to know schedules of work from 
the PH chosen contractors and need to ensure no delays/breaks happen whilst we 
cover AA cost.
But Admiral doesnt appear to have done this. I think thats surprising given the delays and 
that Mr and Mrs E were still in AA. I think Admiral should have obtained confirmation from Mr 
and Mrs E of their understanding of the basis of the ongoing AA, but theres no evidence it 
did. 
The policy provides for AA costs of up to £75,000 if the policyholders home is not fit to live 
in. It also says that Any costs you agree without our permission, are excluded. But Admiral 
had been paying the AA costs to Mr and Mrs E when they sent in invoices, rather than 
directly to the hotel. I dont think Mr and Mrs E had been given any reason to think this 
arrangement wouldnt continue until their home was habitable again. 
Admiral says the duration of the work was massively inflated but Mr and Mrs E were 
complaining about the delay in getting back into their home in January 2021. I dont think 
they wanted to prolong the work any longer than necessary. Admiral wouldnt do the work itself and it under settled the bedroom element. It made no 
attempt to establish whether a one-month timeframe was realistic to Mr and Mrs E. It doesnt 
appear to have notified them about its requirements to continue the AA. And it didnt manage 
the situation subsequently. 
I think its fair that Admiral should pay the AA costs to 12 July 2021. 
Putting things right
I think Admiral should pay a further £437.68 plus interest at 8% per year simple from 6 April 
2021. It should also pay the additional AA costs of £4,554 plus interest at 8% per year 
simple from 26 July 2021. 
I think Mr and Mrs E have suffered more inconvenience and delays than they should have. 
These continued in needing to further complain to resolve the AA costs, I think further 
compensation of £100 should be paid for the trouble and upset caused.
But I think the settlement in respect of the bathroom was reasonable on the evidence 
available. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Admiral Insurance Company Limited.
I direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to settle the claim fairly by paying a further 
£437.68 plus interest at 8% per year simple from 6 April 2021. And to pay the additional AA 
costs of £4,554 with interest at 8% per year simple from 26 July 2021. It should also pay a 
further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the further delays in fairly 
settling the claim.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs E how much its 
taken off. It should also give a certificate showing this if Mr and Mrs E ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
our text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman