DRN-3026006
The complaint
Mr A complains that MBNA Limited refused to refund a transaction he did not authorise to a 
binary options trading company.
What happened
The facts of the case are well known to both parties, so I only intend to summarise key 
events. 
Mr A was approached by an alleged Bitcoin company Ill call G and on 26 December 2017 
invested £500 (using his MBNA Mastercard credit card) with them. Mr A says he suspected 
the trading account was not real and decided not to invest any further.
 
In March 2018, Gs account manager contacted him. He asked Mr A to invest a further 
£10,000 but he declined. On 5 April 2018, Mr A discovered that £10,000 was taken from his 
MBNA Mastercard credit card around the time the account manager contacted him (27 
March 2018). Mr A reported the transaction to MBNA as unauthorised. 
MBNA looked into the disputed transaction and concluded Mr A must have authorised the 
payment. It relied on evidence that Mr A must have provided his long card number to G as 
this card was only issued on 12 March 2018. It also noted that a One Time Passcode (OTP) 
was used to authenticate the payment of £10,000 and this OTP was sent to Mr As 
registered mobile telephone number. Mr A disputes providing G with this OTP. MBNA finally 
noted that Mr A received a refund from G of £197, so he must have been in touch with them 
after he disputed the payment. Unhappy with MBNAs response, Mr A referred his complaint 
to this service.
 
One of our investigators didnt think MBNA should do anything differently. She concluded 
that Mr A authorised the disputed payment. Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint, so it has been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached largely the same conclusions as that of our investigator. To be 
clear, Ive only considered Mr As original complaint to MBNA; that the transaction of 10,000 
to G was taken without his consent. Im aware Mr A has raised a few additional complaint 
points. But these matters should appropriately be referred to MBNA as new complaints as it 
is entitled the opportunity to first review any new complaint issues.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs), Mr A isnt liable for 
unauthorised transactions, unless Mr A failed with gross negligence of intent to comply with 
the terms of the account or keep personalised security details safe. 
Ive considered whether Mr A authorised the transaction that has been disputed  and so, in 
line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the payment or gave 
consent for someone else to complete it. 
Mr A initially told MBNA that he did not provide the card number used for the disputed 
transaction to G. He then later accepted that he shared the card number with G during a 
fraud interview telephone call with MBNA. Ive listened to the call, so Im satisfied he did 
confirm providing these details to G. 
However, Mr A disputes providing G with the OTP used to authenticate the payment. Theres 
no point of compromise of Mr As mobile phone. Mr A provided a screenshot of his mobile 
phone to MBNA which showed the OTP was received by him (though he says he didnt open 
the message until after it was used). The OTP was used within 2 minutes of it being 
received, so I think its more likely that Mr A provided it to G to authenticate the payment. 
Theres no other plausible explanation as to how G would have obtained this information. 
Ive also noted that Mr As account of events has changed since he initially disputed the 
transaction with MBNA, so I dont find his version of events now particularly credible. 
I have noted an email sent by G to Mr A on 27 March 2018 at 2:12pm where they said:
Ive contacted the credit card company my friend. We have good news. I am trying to 
call you, are you available?. 
Mr A replied on 28 March 2018 at 12:36pm and said: 
Please note not interested for now. 
But I dont find this email communication tells us very much. The initial email from G was 
sent eight minutes after the disputed payment was taken and regardless of its contents, it 
still doesnt explain how the OTP was used to authenticate the disputed payment. 
Ive noted that G sent Mr A an email on 28 March 2018 at 3:22pm (after his email above) 
where they said:
You should now be familiar with the attached document  please send the DOD 
back signed and dated  The document needs to be signed in the table next to the 
transaction detail as well as in the bottom of the page. 
DOD stands for declaration of deposit. Ive seen that Mr A received and responded to an 
email like this following his initial undisputed payment to G. So, I think he ought to have had 
concerns as to why they would be sending him a DOD for a payment of £10,000 that he was 
not aware of. As Mr A alleges the payment was unauthorised, I think an email like this from a 
company that Mr G already suspected were scammers ought to have concerned him enough 
to check his account and contact MBNA sooner than he did. Particularly as he provided his 
card details to G the day before it was sent. 
I think its more plausible that Mr A fell victim to a scam and lost significant sums of money 
on a trading platform that was not designed to allow him to get back more than he deposited. 
It follows that based on the evidence Ive seen; Im persuaded that Mr A authorised the 
disputed payment to G. And I dont think MBNA need to do anything differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman