DRN-3339035
The complaint
Mr U and Mrs U say they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a 
charge card. 
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, Allianz Insurance Plc has taken on that responsibility. To keep things simple, Ill 
only refer to Allianz in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs U was the main charge card holder. But Mr U was a secondary card holder, and the PPI 
policy was set up to cover only Mr U.  The PPI policy was sold at the same time as the 
charge card application was made in 1995. It was cancelled in 2006, so no more PPI 
payments were made after this time. 
Other than that, the background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which 
includes Mr U and Mrs Us circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Allianzs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr U and Mrs U paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr U and Mrs Us representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  They didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I know that those representing Mr U and Mrs U made a number of submissions about 
commission. However, the credit agreement was with a third-party and not Allianz. That 
means the unfair relationship provisions as set out in the Supreme Courts judgement in 
Plevin dont apply here. Put simply, this complaint is against the insurer, who would not have 
received commission from the premiums that were paid. I understand the lender has already 
refunded some of the commission in this case. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
It looks as though PPI was sold when Mr U and Mrs U completed a charge card application 
form by filling in a leaflet they had obtained in a department store. It looks to me as though 
the application was then returned by post. On that basis, I think Mrs and Mr U would have 
been able to fill out the application form in their own time and at their own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr U and Mrs U would have known the PPI was 
optional and that they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. Looking at the 
application form, I think the wording on the form is sufficiently clear to indicate the policy was 
optional. I think Mr U and Mrs U must have considered the wording on that form carefully 
because they chose Mr U to be covered by the PPI even though Mrs U was the main 
cardholder. Im satisfied that they would have known that if they didnt want PPI cover, they 
could have just left the relevant section blank. 
When it sold PPI, Allianz had to give Mr U and Mrs U enough information about the cover so 
they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. I can see from the 
application form that the cost of the cover was set out. But it isnt clear that Mr U and Mrs U 
may have to pay interest on the cost of those premiums. And I cant see any of the policys 
main exclusions set out on the application either. So I cant say Allianz told Mr U and Mrs U 
everything it should have done about the cover. 
That means I now have to look at whether Mr U and Mrs U would have acted differently if 
Allianz had told them everything it should have done about the PPI. To help me decide on 
that point, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought 
carefully about what Mr U and Mrs U told us about their personal circumstances at the point 
of sale. 
I can see that if theyd had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 15% of the card balance would 
have been repaid for every month Mr U was out of work because he lost his job or if he was 
off sick until the original balance was repaid. The card balance would have been repaid in 
full in the unfortunate event of his death. 
I know that Mr U had some sick pay, but with PPI he and Mrs U could have used those funds 
on their other essential expenditure at what could have been a difficult time if Mr U was out 
of work. None of the information before me suggests that Mr U would have been affected by 
any of the policys exclusions around medical conditions. And I havent seen anything 
unusual about Mr Us employment circumstances that would have prevented a successful 
claim being made. 
Those representing Mr U and Mrs U made a number of submissions about what they 
thought were additional limitations in respect of back and mental health conditions. However, 
the policy did not restrict such claims in the manner suggested by the representatives. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr U and Mrs U would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time. And in those circumstances, I think that they would 
have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr U and Mrs Us representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Allianz should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman