DRN-3407809
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about an endowment policy he held with Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited. He is unhappy that the maturity value paid to him in April 2020 was almost £4,000 
less than the estimated value he had been given a few weeks earlier. He is also unhappy 
about the lack of interaction from Aviva following him questioning the difference, and then 
complaining about it. 
In addition, Mr T is disappointed with the complaint handling by Aviva and doesnt believe 
that it answered all of his complaint points. He feels that no progress was made unless he 
pushed for it and the £100 compensation payment doesnt begin to cover the time or effort 
he had to put in. He said that he didnt receive the complaint response sent to him a few 
weeks after the complaint was made.
What happened
In 1995 Mr T applied for a mortgage endowment policy with Aviva. It had a target value and 
life cover of £36,421 and a term that ended in April 2020. The policy was a unit-linked one 
and invested in a managed fund. The policy was recommended to Mr T by an independent 
financial adviser (IFA).
The illustration the IFA gave Mr T before he accepted its recommendation for the policy 
stated:
You have chosen the Flexible (Managed) Fund. For the investor wishing to see benefits 
directly linked to prevailing investment conditions, this full managed fund offers a balanced 
portfolio including ordinary shares, fixed interest securities and property investment. 
On 9 March 2020 Aviva sent Mr T a maturity letter. It said that it estimated the maturity value 
of the policy would be just under £36,000, assuming all premiums were paid. However, this 
was a guide only and was not guaranteed; this was because unit prices could go down as 
well as up and so the actual amount payable would be calculated on the maturity date.   The 
letter said that Mr T might have the option to extend the term of the policy by a further ten 
years and that he should tell Aviva if thats what hed like to do. The letter also said that there 
might be other options available to him, but hed need to check his policy documentation to 
see if any applied. If Mr T didnt contact Aviva about an alternative option before the maturity 
date, it would pay the maturity value into his bank account following maturity. 
After the policy matured on 4 April 2020, Aviva sent Mr T confirmation of the maturity value it 
was paying him. This was slightly over £32,000.
Mr T questioned the value of the policy. When he didnt receive a response, he raised a 
complaint a few days later. In this he said that he was aware of the economic situation, but 
he was very surprised and disappointed to see such a drop in unit value had been carried 
directly into the policy. He said this was because when it had been sold to him, hed been 
told it was a low risk and high gain policy, especially in the final month. As such, he believed 
that the estimated maturity value was much more secure. He expressed unhappiness that 
Aviva hadnt contacted him since the maturity notification in order to make him aware that 
such a reduction in the value was imminent and that it had offered him no options to avoid 
the loss. He asked that Aviva pay him the difference between the maturity value and the 
estimate it had given in March 2020.
Aviva responded to Mr Ts initial questions by confirming that the maturity value of his policy 
decreased because of changes to the bid price of the units allocated to the policy. It declined 
to provide details, but confirmed that its actuaries made adjustments to values paid with the 
aim of ensuring that surrender and maturity values fairly reflected the underlying asset value 
of the policy. 
A few days later Aviva issued its final response letter on the complaint. It highlighted that 
Mr T had been told in the maturity letter that the value wasnt guaranteed and that it would 
depend on the value of the units allocated to the policy, which could go down or up. It also 
highlighted that Mr T could have chosen to extend the term of the policy had he wanted to. 
Aviva went on to confirm that, as per the policy terms, it paid the policy value on the maturity 
date and it didnt freeze values if there was a fall in the value of funds, just as it wouldnt if 
there was a rise. Aviva apologised for the amount of time it had taken for it to respond to 
Mr Ts complaint and paid him £100 compensation.
Mr T wasnt satisfied and asked us to consider his complaint. He repeated his initial 
complaint points that had been made to Aviva. In addition, he said that he believed the lack 
of communication from Aviva was a conscious decision to profit out of the transaction. This 
was especially so given the policy was sold to him as a low risk investment that would make 
high gains. As such, he considered that the minimum Aviva should pay him in settlement of 
the complaint was the difference between the estimated maturity value and the actual value, 
plus an additional 10% as compensation for his time and the duress this had caused him.
Two of our investigators considered the complaint and decided that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr T was told that if he had concerns about what hed been told about the policy when it was 
sold to him, he needed to direct his concerns to the IFA that had given the advice. The 
second investigator explained that poor fund performance was not a reason for this service 
to uphold a complaint unless there was clear evidence of negligence on the part of the fund 
managers. Poor performance in response to the Covid-19 pandemic was not evidence of 
negligence. While the fund managers would have attempted to mitigate the impact on the 
fund, in circumstances such as those in the spring of 2020, that would have been difficult to 
do. He also pointed out that Aviva is unable to protect individual policies in such situations. 
As for the illustrated value sent to Mr T in early 2020, it was explained that this was based on 
the unit value of the policy at the time, as is normal for such estimates. It was, in the 
investigators opinion, also clearly documented that the amount actually payable would be 
the calculated at the maturity date and this was not guaranteed. While the timing of Mr Ts 
policy maturity was unfortunate, the investigator wasnt persuaded that Aviva had done 
anything wrong. 
In relation to Mr Ts belief that Aviva should have contacted him when the fall in the markets 
happened after the maturity letter, our investigator explained that this isnt something that it 
was required to do or that we would expect it to do. The investigator also highlighted that 
Mr T had been given the option to extend the term in the maturity letter and he could have 
contacted Aviva to see if there were any other options available to him. In relation to the 
£100 Aviva paid Mr T for poor service after he started to question the maturity value, the 
investigator confirmed that complaint handling didnt fall within our jurisdiction, so we 
wouldnt usually award compensation for errors in that process. As such, he thought that 
Aviva had treated Mr T fairly in making the offer.Mr T didnt accept the opinions that were expressed by our investigators. Latterly he asked 
that the investigator explain how the predicted maturity value differed so significantly from 
the actual maturity value, given that Aviva was aware of the likelihood of an upcoming 
economic downturn. He also asked that the investigator explain why Aviva had offered no 
alternatives or raised concerns over sudden losses with him. He said that, once these 
questions were responded to, if the complaint wasnt upheld, that it be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
The investigator responded to Mr Ts questions. He explained that while Mr T believed that 
Aviva should have known what was going to happen over the following weeks when it 
produced the maturity estimate, he didnt believe that it could have done. The investigator 
repeated that Aviva hadnt been required to contact him about the fund performance 
following the maturity letter and that wasnt its role. This was because Aviva was the product 
provider, not Mr Ts financial adviser. That said, had Mr T wanted to explore what options 
were available to him, he could have contacted Aviva to ask. 
Mr T responded by saying that in such exceptional circumstances, he considered that Aviva 
had a much greater set of obligations. He reiterated that he had relied on the estimate, due 
to what he recollected having been told about the policy when it was sold.  He said that he is 
not a financial adviser or expert, so contacting Aviva on a day by day basis was not a 
reasonable expectation of him. In addition, extrapolating from the poor service in relation to 
timings of responses from Aviva after the policy had matured, he said he was unsure that he 
would have had the opportunity to discuss options with it. He said that ultimately, Aviva 
made a significant economic gain by not contacting him or offering him the opportunity to 
extend the policy for the short term in consideration of the imminent pandemic. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before commenting on the merits of the complaint made about Aviva, I would first confirm 
the scope of this decision. Mr T has commented that he is particularly unhappy with Aviva 
given that the policy was sold to him as one that involved a low level of risk and that would 
provide him with high gains. Aviva didnt sell the policy to Mr T. If he misunderstood what 
Aviva was telling him in the maturity letter because of what he was told at the time of the 
sale, I cant hold Aviva responsible for any assumptions he made, or his misinterpretation of 
the information provided. Any concerns about the sale would need to be referred to the IFA 
that sold the policy to him. 
Mr T is unhappy that his policy matured for less than it had been estimated around four 
weeks earlier. I can understand that upset, but the simple explanation for that is that his 
policy was directly linked to the performance of the fund it was invested in. Mr T has 
indicated he knew that the fund value had dropped, but he believed that due to what he was 
told at the time of the sale, his policy would be protected from it. That wasnt the case. His 
policy was directly linked to the value of the fund and any falls in the fund value would be 
reflected in the value of his policy. 
I wont repeat the detail of economic conditions that affected the value of Mr Ts policy, as 
they have been set out in detail in previous correspondence. However, the simple fact is that 
between the date of the maturity letter, the value of the fund the policy was invested in fell 
significantly, as did the financial markets in general. While that decline had started before the 
maturity letter was sent to Mr T, no one could have predicted at that time how large the falls 
would be, when the markets would start to recover or how quickly they would do so. So while Mr T thinks that Aviva should have known what was likely to happen at the point it produced 
the maturity estimate and incorporated that knowledge into the estimate, I am not persuaded 
that is reasonable. 
When the policy was taken out, Aviva and Mr T entered into a contract. Mr T agreed to pay a 
monthly premium and Aviva agreed to provide life cover during the term and provide an 
investment which, if anticipated growth rates were met, would reach a target amount. There 
were never any guarantees that this would happen. As far as I can see, Aviva did what it had 
to do during the term of the policy. 
Mr T is unhappy that Aviva didnt proactively contact him between the maturity letter and the 
maturity date to provide him with information and options for what he could do to prevent or 
reduce the loss he suffered. Aviva was responsible for administering the policy in line with 
the terms and conditions that were set when it was taken out. The end of term options 
available to Mr T had been set out in the maturity letter  allowing the policy to mature as it 
was set up to do, or to extend the term by a further ten years (for taxation reasons). The only 
other alternative would have been for Mr T to surrender the policy. If a regulated financial 
services business were to make such a suggestion, it would have first needed to be asked 
for advice and to have gone through a full advice process. 
I would also explain that a life assurance company like Aviva is not required to provide 
financial advice and it certainly wouldnt be expected to do so unless it was asked to. I also 
note that Mr T has indicated in his early comments that he was aware that the fund his policy 
was invested in was dropping in value. In those circumstances, if Mr T wanted information or 
advice, it was for him to seek it. 
While Mr T believes that Aviva should have created some alternative short-term options for 
him, that isnt something that could reasonably have been expected of it. As I have said, it 
had an obligation to administer the policy in line with the terms and conditions. If no 
short-term options were built into the policy, they quite simply werent available.
Mr T has said that he doesnt think that the policy should have been encashed when it was, 
due to the fall in the financial markets. I can understand Mr Ts position on this issue, but 
Aviva was required under the contract it entered into with him to administer the policy in a 
certain way and the maturity date is set at the outset. It is not something that Aviva has a 
choice about. There were two options available  maturity or extending the term of the 
policy. Mr T was the only one who could ask for the latter to happen. 
I am afraid that the simple fact here is that Mr Ts policy matured following significant falls in 
economic markets. It is unfortunate, but there is no evidence that Aviva did anything wrong 
and there are no grounds for upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
17 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman