DRN-2699026
The complaint
Mr Vs complaint against Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IBUK) is about withdrawals that 
were made from his trading account. This complaint has been brought on Mr Vs behalf by 
his legal representative.
What happened
Mr V opened an online trading account with IBUK in 2017. IBUK provided an execution only 
service, which meant they carried out Mr Vs instructions and did not provide advice or 
recommendations. Mr V also opened a United States account with Interactive Brokers later 
in 2017, but activities on that account fall outside the jurisdiction of our service.
Mr V complains that unauthorised withdrawals were made from his IBUK account. 
In summary, his complaint is that IBUK:
Failed to protect his money when they approved and processed unauthorised third-party 
withdrawals from his account. 
Failed to carry out proper due diligence and didnt provide him with the necessary duty of 
care.
Didnt check to see if he was an experienced trader or not.
Didnt send him the necessary updates and reports each month.
Mr V wants IBUK to repay the €400,000 he says he has lost through unauthorised 
withdrawals from his account.
IBUK have said all the withdrawals were executed by Mr V or someone he had provided his 
account details to. They say Mr V was responsible for the security of his login details and the 
activity on his account. IBUK have also said that Mr V passed the necessary checks to open 
his account and they have sent him monthly statements. 
 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. Mr V disagrees and has 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Opening of the account
As IBUK provide an execution only service, they didnt have to assess whether the account 
was suitable for Mr V. But they were required to check that the account, which provided Mr V 
with access to complex investments, was appropriate for him. In particular, IBUK had to 
check Mr V had the knowledge and experience to understand the risks in trading derivatives. 
I can see that when Mr V applied to open his account IBUK asked him various questions to 
establish whether it was appropriate for him. Mr V provided information about his income 
and assets. He told IBUK he had 6-10 years experience of trading in stocks and foreign 
exchange markets and five years experience in trading options, commodities and bonds. 
Mr V rated his investment experience and knowledge as good and he selected trading 
and speculation as his investment objectives. 
Based on what Ive seen I think IBUK took steps to check the account was appropriate for 
Mr V and I dont think they did anything wrong in approving his application. 
Third party involvement with Mr Vs account
Mr Vs representative told our investigator that a third party convinced Mr V to open his 
account with IBUK and helped him to do so. Mr Vs representative has not specified who the 
third party was. 
In order to open his account, Mr V sent IBUK two forms of identification and a utility bill. 
He also chose a unique username and password. That enabled IBUK to confirm Mr Vs 
identity and send him the necessary information to log into his account. Mr V executed his 
agreement with IBUK online. He signed the relevant documents electronically having logged 
in with his account credentials and security token. 
When he opened his account Mr V appointed an authorised agent, Mr M, to trade on his 
account. The form Mr V completed gave Mr M permission to log into the account and place 
trades, but not to make or request withdrawals. Mr M was given a unique log-in ID and 
according to IBUKs records he later used it six times.
Aside from the appointment of Mr M as an authorised agent, I dont think IBUK would have 
been aware that Mr V had involved a third party in the process of opening his account. 
And Im satisfied IBUK carried out the checks they should have before agreeing that Mr V 
could open his account. 
Mr Vs representative has accepted that, having opened his account, Mr V gave his 
username, password and security token to the third party. Theyve said the third party 
provided Mr V with investment advice and gave him monthly reports on the operation of his 
account. 
When Mr V opened his account, he agreed he wouldnt allow anyone else to access his 
account for any purpose. The terms Mr V agreed included the following:
Unless specified to and agreed to by IBUK, Customer shall not permit any other 
person to have access to Customers account for any purpose. Customer shall be 
responsible for the confidentiality and use of, and any Customer orders entered with, 
Customers username and password. Customer agrees to report any loss or theft of 
Customers username or password, or any unauthorized access to Customers 
account, immediately by e-mail to the IB Customer Service Department. However, 
Customer shall remain responsible for all orders entered using Customers username 
and password.In agreeing to the terms of the account, Mr V also confirmed he would be the ultimate 
beneficiary of the account. He agreed that IBUK would only accept orders and execute 
transactions from him. He also agreed that he was responsible for all transactions, including 
withdrawals, on his account.
Mr V has accepted that he gave his username, password and security token to a third party 
and gave them authority to use his account on his behalf. His representative has not 
provided further information, as requested by our investigator, about Mr Vs relationship with 
this third party. But its clear that by giving the third-party full access to his account, Mr V 
breached the terms of his agreement with IBUK. I think thats an important consideration in 
deciding the outcome of Mr Vs complaint.  
Withdrawals
Mr V deposited €50,0000 when he opened his account in January 2017. The account 
records show another €250,000 was deposited in February 2017 and a further €100,000 in 
June 2017.
During 2017 over 3,000 trades were made on Mr Vs account. Funds were transferred to and 
from Mr Vs other accounts and there was also a significant number of withdrawals. The total 
funds taken out of Mr Vs account was on a broadly similar level to the amount deposited. 
By the end of 2017, Mr Vs account had a net value of about €300.
Trading on Mr Vs account was much more limited in 2018. Some funds were transferred 
into the account and funds were also withdrawn. The net value of the account at the end of 
2018 was about €450.
Mr Vs representative complains that the third party operating Mr Vs account likely carried 
out the withdrawals. They say Mr V wasnt aware of the withdrawals and they were made to 
accounts he had no connection with. 
Mr Vs representative has said that IBUK is different to other platforms in allowing customers 
to make withdrawals to other Interactive Brokers and third party accounts. But such 
withdrawals should only be authorised after additional checks have been made and IBUK 
didnt follow the correct process before allowing the withdrawals from Mr Vs account. 
IBUK have said all the withdrawals were made by either Mr V or a third party who Mr V 
provided his account details to. None of the withdrawals were categorised as third party 
withdrawals and so they didnt prompt the additional checks that would be required for such 
transactions. 
IBUK have provided detailed information on the processes for withdrawing money from one 
of their accounts to explain why they didnt treat the withdrawals from Mr Vs account as third 
party withdrawals. Theyve said Mr V  or someone using his username, password and 
security token - logged into his account on eight occasions to nominate accounts that he 
could withdraw funds into. He certified all the accounts as not being third party destinations.
IBUK say that about 20 withdrawal requests were made on Mr Vs account. Each time the 
withdrawals were made after Mr Vs username, password and security token had been used. 
All the withdrawals were sent in the name of Mr V to one of the destinations already set up 
on his account and certified as not being a third party recipient. They were therefore 
processed as regular wire withdrawals.
   IBUK have said that if any of the withdrawals had been indicated as third party a different 
process would have been used to approve the transactions. Such withdrawals generally 
require a due diligence review and even after that would only be approved for limited 
purposes.
Based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for IBUK to treat the withdrawals from 
Mr Vs account as regular wire withdrawals and allow them to go ahead. On each occasion 
Mr Vs unique username, password and security token had been used. All the destinations 
on Mr Vs account were certified as not being a third party account. And the individual 
withdrawals were made after withdraw had been selected rather than third party withdraw.
So, I dont think IBUK did anything wrong in processing the withdrawals. It seems most likely 
they were made by a third party who Mr V had allowed to operate his account on his behalf. 
And I dont think IBUK could have been aware of that or had any reason to think Mr V might 
not agree with them.
As Mr Vs representative has pointed out, IBUK have an obligation to ensure adequate 
protection of their customers assets. They should have in place systems to prevent fraud 
and non-authorised payments and minimise the risk of financial harm to their customers. 
They should also have measures to detect suspicious transactions and request appropriate 
levels of authentication to validate them. 
Ive thought about whether the pattern of activity on Mr Vs account should have prompted 
IBUK to carry out further checks before processing any of the withdrawals. But there was a 
high volume of trading on Mr Vs account in 2017 and its not unusual for funds to be 
deposited and withdrawn regularly from an account of this kind. I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to say that IBUK should have done more than follow their standard 
procedures when processing the withdrawals. 
Mr Vs representative has also said IBUK should have been alerted by the relevant IP 
addresses that someone other than Mr V was logging into his account. The IP addresses 
show that Mr Vs account was accessed from a number of different countries around the 
world. 
That is the sort of information a business could look at where they have concerns about the 
activity on an account. But in this case, I dont think IBUK had grounds to be concerned 
about the activity on Mr Vs account. And so, this doesnt change my view that IBUK did 
nothing wrong in allowing the withdrawals to go ahead. 
Ive also looked at Mr Vs complaint that he didnt receive monthly reports on his account. 
IBUK have said they sent monthly account activity statement notifications to the email 
address Mr V provided when he opened his account. The statements were also available to 
Mr V by logging into his account.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied IBUK made monthly statements available to Mr V. 
I note that Mr Vs representative has said the third party provided him with monthly reports 
on his account. That was a matter between Mr V and the third party, and I wouldnt hold 
IBUK responsible for what the third party reported to Mr V. 
Summary
Id like to reassure both parties that Ive looked carefully at all the evidence theyve provided. 
In coming to my decision Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.It seems a third party persuaded Mr V to open his account with IBUK. Having done so, Mr V 
gave the third party his personal log in information and allowed him to operate the account. 
That was a breach of Mr Vs agreement with IBUK, a point which his representative accepts. 
Mr V deposited large sums in his account during 2017 and, to a lesser extent, 2018. 
Hes said the third party was providing him with regular reports on his activity, but it wasnt 
until 2019 Mr V realised withdrawals had been made which he didnt authorise.
Mr V and his representative have provided very little information about the third party. So, I 
dont know the nature of Mr Vs relationship with the third party or any agreement they 
entered into. But it seems that, at some point, the third party started to operate the account 
in a way he had not agreed with Mr V.
In these circumstances, I would need to have good reasons for saying that IBUK should be 
held responsible for the losses Mr V says he has suffered. But having looked at what 
happened, I dont think I can say IBUK did anything wrong in allowing the withdrawals from 
Mr Vs account. 
Taking account of all the circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to hold IBUK responsible in the way Mr V would like. So, I wont be asking 
them to do anything more. 
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr V, but I wont be upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint 
against Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman