DRN-3372959
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with his credit card 
account application.
What happened
Mr M says he applied for a Halifax credit card account in August 2021 which was initially 
approved. He says the account number ending 71 appeared on his online banking but says 
on 6 August 2021 had been removed. Mr M says he raised a complaint, but it was mixed up 
with a complaint about a similar issue from a different customer. He says there has been a 
significant breach of his personal data as his information was sent to this other customer. Mr 
M says he has been caused financial hardship as well as stress and inconvenience. He says 
false information has been reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and would 
like an apology as well as a detailed explanation. Mr M would also like appropriate 
compensation.
Halifax accepts it made a mistake by mixing up Mr Ms complaint with another complaint and 
has apologised. It has paid Mr M £250 compensation. Halifax says it was entitled in line with 
account terms and conditions to close the account. It says it gave the other customer Mr Ms 
complaint reference and the last four digits of the closed account card.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation paid by 
Halifax was appropriate. The investigator thought Halifax was entitled in line with account 
terms and conditions to close the account and thought it had recorded the data breach. The 
investigator didnt think there any evidence of adverse information being reported to the 
CRAs and that Halifax had provided feedback to its staff.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
accepted Halifax breached his personal data and says the investigator hasnt mentioned his 
Article 79/82 rights or the fact the Halifax broke the law. He says other cases this service has 
dealt with have resulted in higher compensation payments which set a precedent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Halifax has paid an appropriate amount 
of compensation and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
There is no question here that Halifax made a mistake by sending Mr Ms family member 
details of his complaint reference, closing his complaint and sending the family member the 
last four digits of the credit card account. There is also no dispute here that Mr Ms family 
member also applied for a Halifax credit card account which was also closed, and that family 
member had also made a complaint.
I accept in those circumstances Mr M would have been concerned about what took place 
and spent some time trying to find out what took place and why. I also accept that Mr M 
would have had concerns about the impact any data breach would have. But Im satisfied 
that Halifax has fairly apologised for what took place and has fairly explained that it made a 
mistake. I dont think it could have provided Mr M with any more information about what took 
place but did tell him that it had provided feedback to those involved in the mistake.
The key issue is the level of compensation. I dont think Mr M suffered any financial loss and 
I dont think there was ever a risk of any such loss. I say that as Im satisfied the information 
Halifax sent to Mr Ms family member was very limited and related to a closed account. I 
appreciate Mr M says he suffered financial hardship as a result of what took place, but I 
have not seen any evidence of that and dont think it clear what if anything that relates to. I 
have not seen any evidence that Halifax reported any adverse information to the CRAs.
Im satisfied that Halifax payment of £250 compensation is fair and reasonable and in line 
with the type of awards we would make for this type of mistake and impact. I appreciate Mr 
M says that other complaints have resulted in higher awards and we have set a precedent. I 
make clear to Mr M that we consider each case individually and in particular the impact a 
mistake has. I have made clear that I dont think there was any financial loss caused by 
Halifaxs mistake and find the information that was mistakenly shared was minimal as well as 
unlikely to result in any significant consequences.
I also make clear to Mr M that it would be for a court to decide if Halifax has broken the law 
and can see that he has raised a complaint with the ICO. We are not a court or Halifaxs 
regulator and so its not for this service to punish a business for a breach of its data 
protection requirements. Im satisfied that Mr M has received compensation for what took 
place and is clearly aware of his rights under Article 79 and 82.
Im satisfied that in line with agreed account terms and conditions Halifax was entitled to 
close Mr Ms account. I appreciate that is not the main part of this complaint but make that 
clear. I also cant fairly comment in this decision about any other complaints Mr M may have 
about Halifax that it hasnt had an opportunity to investigate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman