DRN-2334962
The complaint
Mr G, on behalf of N, complains about Covea Insurance plcs decision to decline the claim 
made under Ns commercial insurance policy.
What happened
N has the benefit of a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Covea. Mr G made a 
claim on that policy to cover Ns losses arising out of the closure of its businesses in 
March 2020 due to the national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the 
spread of Covid-19.
Covea declined the claim because it said N didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming 
for. Covea said Ns policy provided cover for loss of gross profit following business 
interruption. But that this did not cover the circumstances of Ns claim. Covea said Ns policy 
covered losses where business interruption was caused by damage, but the presence of 
Covid-19 is not considered damage. And that, whilst the most relevant extension to this 
section of the policy did provide cover following the discovery of certain diseases, Covid-19 
was not one of the diseases specified in the policy, so was not included in this cover.
Mr G was unhappy with this, ultimately referring Ns complaint to this service. He said he had 
amended the details of his policy prior to lockdown to ensure that he was going to be 
covered for his losses. And that Covea should meet his claim. 
Our investigator considered Ns complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation N found itself in. Mr G 
doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
I note that Mr G, on behalf of N, has also referred a separate complaint this service about 
the actions of the insurance broker involved in setting up and then making mid-term 
adjustments to Ns cover. I will make brief reference to this below, but this matter is being 
considered separately by this service. My role in the current complaint is largely limited to 
determining whether Covea acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ns claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on N. But for the 
same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ns complaint. Ill explain why. 
The type of cover N is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy N had. As such Ive considered every aspect of the 
policy N holds with Covea to determine whether there are any sections that would require 
Covea to meet the claim like the one N is making. 
Mr G has told us that N closed due to the government-imposed lockdown. The nature of Ns 
business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay open after this time. I am not 
aware of an occurrence of Covid-19 on Ns premises. But, even if there was, I do not 
consider Ns policy would have provided cover. 
Ns policy provides cover for loss of insurable gross profit as a result of several things. The 
main business interruption section, and a number of the extensions to this section, requires 
there to have been damage which caused the interruption. A further extension does not 
require there to have been damage and relates to compulsory closure for other reasons. Ive 
considered each of these below.
Damage
The business interruption section of Ns policy provides cover for loss of gross profit in 
consequence of Damage to property at Ns premises. Several extensions to this section also 
require there to have been Damage for losses to be covered. These include the Denial of 
Access, Unspecified Customers, and Unspecified Suppliers extensions. Depending on the 
extension, the required Damage needs to be to property at specific locations (for example, at 
the premises of Ns suppliers) or within 1 kilometre of Ns premises. 
Damage is defined in the policy as:
Accidental loss, destruction or damage unless otherwise excluded 
I consider that, for damage (or destruction) to have occurred, there would need to be a 
physical change or altered state to property, which made it less valuable. It is also possible 
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage.
Whilst no evidence has been provided on this point, it is possible that SARS-CoV-2 was 
present in Ns premises, either in the air on or surfaces. But it is normal that viruses 
generally exist on surfaces and in the air. And the Governments guidance on cleaning 
during the Covid-19 pandemic didnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist. There is no 
evidence of an excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2 on any relevant property. And the mere 
presence of any particular virus is not automatically damage. In my view, it wouldnt 
constitute damage to property unless it impacted the property in the way Ive mentioned 
above, and there is no evidence that SARS-CoV-2 has caused any physical change or 
altered the state of any property.
And, whilst N has no doubt suffered a loss of gross profit, this was not in consequence of a 
loss of any property.
As such, I am not persuaded that Ns losses were as a result of Damage. And it follows that I 
do consider it was fair and reasonable for Covea to decline Ns claim under the parts of the 
policy that require there to have been Damage. Compulsory Closure
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid-19 pandemic and 
required certain businesses, including Ns, to close. Because of this, the most likely section 
of the policy that would respond is the extension in relation to compulsory closure. That 
extension covers disruption to business activities as a direct result of:
compulsory closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the 
Premises arising from: 
(a) discovery of a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease at the 
Premises 
(b) foreign or deleterious matter in food or drink sold, supplied or provided at the 
Premises 
(c) the occurrence at the Premises of murder, manslaughter, suicide or rape 
(d) defective sanitation or the presence of vermin or pests
N was required to close, but this was not because of issues with food or drink; murder, 
manslaughter, suicide or rape; or vermin, pests, or defective sanitation. The reason for the 
government-imposed lockdown was an infectious or contagious disease  Covid-19. N has 
not provided any evidence of such a disease at its premises, but even if Covid-19 was at its 
premises, this policy would not provide cover. 
The term Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease is defined within the policy as:
Those diseases notifiable under the Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations 
1988, namely: 
Acute encephalitis, Acute poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, 
Food poisoning, Leptospirosis, Legionellosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningitis, 
Meningococcal septicaemia (without meningitis), Mumps, Ophthalmia neonatorum, 
Paratyphoid fever, Plague, Rabies, Relapsing fever, Rubella, Scarlet fever Smallpox, 
Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid fever, Typhus fever, Viral haemorrhagic fever, Viral 
hepatitis, Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Whooping cough, Yellow fever. 
No other disease will be added to the above list without Our prior written consent.
This list was also not the entire list of notifiable diseases as it existed at the time of drafting. 
It did not, for example, include Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which was an 
identified notifiable disease at the time. The list also included some diseases that are not 
currently defined as notifiable diseases, such as Ophthalmia neonatorum. 
Covea defined a finite list of specific diseases it was providing cover for under the policy. I 
dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all illnesses that fall 
outside of the defined list set out above.
As well as only covering some of the notifiable diseases, there is nothing in the policy 
wording (which there could have been if that was what Covea wanted to cover) which 
suggests that the policy was intended to cover new diseases generally, or new diseases 
added to the notifiable diseases list from time to time. Instead, the policy explicitly states that 
no other disease will be added to the list without Coveas prior written consent. Covea has 
not consented to Covid-19 being added to this list.So, the policy clearly only intended to cover some of the known notifiable diseases at the 
point the policy was taken out. And I dont think it can fairly and reasonably be read in a 
different way.
Ns claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by Covid-19, I am satisfied Coveas decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable. 
The changes made to Ns policy
As mentioned above, Mr G contacted his broker prior to the government-imposed lockdown 
and changes were made to the cover provided to N. However, the changes were limited to 
increasing the financial level of cover for business interruption. The increase was from 
£50,000 to £100,000. No change was made to the circumstances in which the cover would 
apply. 
In order for a claim to be met, regardless of the financial level of cover, the circumstances of 
the claim must fall within the scope of the policy terms. Having considered the whole of Ns 
policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of cover that means Covea should 
have met Ns claim. 
I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr G, but I hope Ive provided him with a 
thorough explanation of why Ns policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ns complaint about Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
N, to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman