DRN-3434563
The complaint
Mrs H complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a claim 
she made on her home insurance policy following damage caused by a storm. 
What happened
In late 2021, Mrs H made a claim under her home insurance policy for storm damage to a 
garden wall. Whilst RSA accepted there were storm conditions around the time the damage 
happened, it declined the claim. It said the wall had fallen as a result of gradual damage, 
which isnt covered under her insurance policy. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mrs H brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld it. She was satisfied that the storm was the main cause of the damage, and so said 
RSA had acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
RSA didnt agree, so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
has it been shown, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the answer to 
any of the above questions is no  the claim wont succeed under this section of the policy.
In this case, RSA accepts there were storm conditions, so I havent considered this further. 
And having reviewed the photographs of the damage, I find a wall collapsing is consistent 
with storm damage. So I consider the key question here is the third question. 
RSA considers the wall to have been in a poor condition before the storm. It has said that if 
the wall had been in a better condition, it wouldnt have been damaged by the storm. 
RSA has provided a number of photographs, it says these show the base of the wall was 
covered in black mulch which meant the brickwork has lost its bond with the mortar, 
meaning it wasnt functioning correctly. It says this mulch would have happened over time, 
and so it cant be said the damage was caused by a one-off storm event. 
Ive reviewed the photographs. I can see a small section of the black mulch RSA refers to, 
but I cant see that this runs along the entire base of the wall. From what Ive seen it is a 
relatively minor section of wall affected by this. The rest of the wall looks in good condition, 
there is no foliage covering it which may weaken the mortar, and Ive been provided with 
photos from before the storm, these show no cracks or leans to the wall. I dont think the 
photos Ive seen support RSAs position that the wall was effectively a wall stacked loosely 
on top of footings
Ive also considered the exceptional wind speeds in this case. The nearest weather station is 
around 14 miles away from Mrs Hs property near a major city, it recorded storm force winds 
of 74mph, which is strong enough to be considered a hurricane according to the Royal 
Meteorological Society. But given the location of Mrs Hs property, in a rural village located 
on a hill, Im satisfied that the wind speeds were likely even higher there. So it seems 
reasonable to me that a wall in an otherwise good condition may be blown over by these 
strength winds.
Whilst I accept there is some evidence of wear and tear to the wall, Im satisfied based on 
what Ive said above, that the storm was the main or dominant cause of the damage. So I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to rely on its exclusion for gradual 
damage to decline the claim. To resolve the complaint RSA needs to settle the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should settle Mrs Hs claim 
for storm damage in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman