DRN-3683952
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC suspended payments to a third party business. 
Mr G also complains that Barclays agreed compensation but later refused to pay. 
What happened
Mr G has an account with Barclays. Last summer, Barclays took the decision to suspend 
payments to an online third party business Ill refer to as A. Barclays sent Mr G a text 
message explaining its decision and he went on to raise a complaint. 
Mr G has told us he contacted Barclays and was offered £25 compensation. But Mr G later 
found no complaint had been raised and he didnt receive the funds promised. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint. They thought Barclays had acted 
in line with the account terms and conditions when it suspended payments to A. And the 
investigator said that complaint handling in its own right isnt an activity thats regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. As a result, they said the Financial Ombudsman Service 
cant look into how Barclays handled a complaint. 
Mr G asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Barclays account terms and conditions. They allow Barclays to refuse a 
payment request in order to protect an account. I understand Mr G was unhappy at the 
account restriction and I can see hed used Bs services before. I can see Barclays actions 
couldve caused Mr G some inconvenience. But Im satisfied that Barclays had genuine 
concerns and took reasonable steps to try and protect Mr Gs account. I havent been 
persuaded Barclays acted unfairly. 
Mr G has told us he was initially promised £25 by a complaint handler. But Barclays says 
theres no record of an offer being made. And Barclays didnt go on to offer Mr G any 
compensation for the issues hed raised. 
As our investigator has said, the Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider 
complaints that are covered by the DISP rules, as set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook. I need to explain to Mr G that complaint handling by a business isnt a 
regulated activity and theres only limited circumstances when we can consider it. 
Im satisfied the issues raised that relate to how Barclays dealt with Mr Gs complaint, such 
as whether it agreed compensation only to withdraw its offer, arent directly related to a 
regulated activity. As a result, they dont come under the scope of our rules. That means I 
cant consider this part of Mr Gs complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman