DRN-2892918
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard handled his 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr B booked a holiday package to Thailand with a merchant and paid 
£1734.96 using his Barclaycard credit card.
Mr B says the package was sold to him on the basis that he would be provided with luxury 
services. However, he experienced issues with the holiday including:
- No taxi service provided to train station
- Slow train booked instead of express train
- No hotel reservations made
- Breakfast not included at some hotels
- Different hotels to the ones on the itinerary
- Golden triangle trip not boked
- Visas not arranged
- Poor quality hotels
Mr B complained to the merchant but was unable to get a refund so he contacted 
Barclaycard and raised a section 75 claim.
Mr B was outside of the time limits for a chargeback, so Barclaycard considered the claim 
under section 75 only. It said it couldnt uphold the claim as it felt there wasnt enough 
information to conclude that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr B wasnt happy with the outcome. He said hed provided Barclaycard with an email from 
the merchant in which they acknowledged that they hadnt supplied the services Mr B was 
expecting.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She did think there was enough evidence to say 
there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr B didnt have the holiday experience he was hoping for and I understand 
why he wants a refund. However, I dont think Barclaycard has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining the section 75 claim. Ill explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Bs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Barclaycards response to the claim wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and services must be 
provided with reasonable care and skill. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can 
be said to have occurred.
In order to show that theres been a misrepresentation, Mr B would need to show that the 
merchant made an untrue statement of fact which induced hi to enter into the contract.
I have no reasons to doubt what Mr B has said about the issues he experienced. However, 
in order to determine whether theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation, I 
would need to see evidence to show what itinerary and services were purchased by Mr B. I 
havent been provided with those details. So, I dont know what the terms of the contract 
were. And in these circumstances, its impossible to say whether the contact has been 
breached. 
Ive undertaken my own research into the merchant to try and discover what the contract 
might have been. However, theres very little information available, so its isnt possible for 
me to say what services shouldve been provided under the contract.
Ive taken account of everything Mr B has said about the issues he experienced. I can see 
that the merchant acknowledged that it didnt provide the services it should have done. Mr B 
says that this email from the merchant provides that there was a breach of contract. I 
disagree. I dont think the email of itself is enough to show that the contract was breached. 
At best, it acknowledges poor service, which isnt the same as a breach of contract. 
In conclusion, there isnt enough evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation. In the circumstances, I dont think Barclaycard has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining the section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman