DRN-4358170
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service received from Lloyds Bank PLC when it returned his 
cheques unpaid. 
What happened
Mr T wrote two cheques from his Lloyds account which were returned unpaid, of which the 
most recent one was to send to his savings account with another provider. 
Lloyds returned the cheques unpaid, it said it appears that Mr Ts signature on the cheques 
didnt match the one it held on its records.
Mr T wasnt happy with the checking process and feels this is a failure with Lloyds 
automated systems. He feels if there had been some proper oversight Lloyds would have 
identified the cheques were payable to himself, so not a security risk. 
As Mr T had to process a further cheque three days later, he says he has missed out on the 
interest he would have received had the initial cheque cleared as it should have.  
Lloyds responded to Mr T, after the first cheque was returned and offered him £50 
compensation as he was unable to contact the cheque clearing team immediately. But 
Lloyds didnt think it had acted unfairly on returning the cheques unpaid. 
Unhappy with this Mr T brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr T. They didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly in returning the cheques, and they 
didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more. 
Mr T says Lloyds should have contacted him by telephone to discuss the cheque. He 
believes Lloyds has inadequate internal checking procedures which made the process 
inconvenient. He feels he has lost out on interest because of the delay in processing his 
cheque. As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's important for me to highlight that its not this services role to say what processes Lloyds 
should use, but we consider whether a firm has acted fairly or not.
Ive seen a copy of the cheque dated 11 July 2023 that was returned unpaid, and Ive also 
seen the signature that Lloyds holds for Mr T on its records. I appreciate Mr Ts frustration at 
having the cheque returned unpaid, particularly as hed made the cheque payable to himself. 
But I find Lloyds havent acted unreasonably in stopping the cheque where it had legitimate 
security concerns, as appears to have been the case here. Having considered the 
signatures Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt act unfairly; I say this because there is a significant 
difference between the two signatures.
Mr T says Lloyds accepted a subsequent cheque from him and he felt the difference 
between the signatures on the two cheques was minor. Lloyds has told us its system does 
make allowances for natural changes that can occur over the course of time. I can see there 
was a difference between the cheque Lloyds accepted and the one it returned unpaid, so I 
dont think it acted unreasonably here either.   
I understand Mr T says that the cheque was payable to himself and had this been processed 
manually it would have been picked up. But the cheque that was returned unpaid was for a 
significant sum, and that coupled with the discrepancy in the signature meant Lloyds werent, 
regardless of the system in use, happy to release the funds, which I dont think was 
unreasonable.     
I can certainly understand Mr Ts anxiety at the cheque being returned. This has caused him 
some inconvenience, but Lloyds fairly followed its process here. As Ive explained, it was 
fair, in the circumstances, to refuse to pay the cheque. Lloyds has paid £50 to reflect any 
shortcomings in its communications with Mr T after the first cheque was returned, which I 
think is fair. So I am not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman