DRN-3286680
The complaint
Mr H complains that Think Money Limited (thinkmoney) unfairly closed his account. 
What happened
Mr H had an account with thinkmoney. In November 2021 thinkmoney wrote to Mr H and 
gave 60 days notice of its intention to close his account. Thinkmoney advised Mr H to make 
other banking arrangements. 
Mr H complained and thinkmoney sent him a final response. Thinkmoney didnt agree it had 
made a mistake or for the account to remain open. In addition, thinkmoney said it had acted 
in line with the account terms and conditions. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs complaint but didnt ask thinkmoney to do 
anything else. Mr H asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both a business and customer can choose to close an account or end a banking 
relationship. The terms and conditions set out the steps Mr H wouldve had to take to close 
his account. The terms say Mr H, as the account holder, could contact thinkmoney at any 
time to say he wanted to close the account. 
The terms go on to say that thinkmoney can take the decision to close an account for any 
reason by giving two months notice in writing. 
In this case, thinkmoney sent Mr H notice of its intention to close his account in November 
2021 and it was closed two months later. Im satisfied thats in line with the terms and 
conditions. 
 
Sometimes it wouldnt be fair to apply the account terms and conditions. Mr H has told us 
how the decision to close his account has impacted his mental health. And I can see how 
frustrated he is at thinkmoneys decision. But Mr H confirmed he had opened another 
account with an alternative provider and has his income paid into his partners account. So 
whilst I understand why Mr H is upset, I think its reasonable to say he had access to other 
banking facilities at the point his account closed. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H but I havent found that thinkmoney made a mistake or 
treated him unfairly. As Im satisfied thinkmoney dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman