DRN-1281791
The complaint
Mr O complains that The Plan Group Limited, trading as Yellow Jersey Insurance (the Plan 
Group), declined part of his claim for damage to his bicycle under his bicycle insurance 
policy.
What happened 
In June 2019 Mr O was out cycling when he heard a soft crack as he went over some 
cobbles or a bump. A short while later, he accidentally hit the wheel of a bike in front of him 
and he fell off. He had a few bumps and bruises and he damaged his carbon bike, his phone 
and his shoes. He made a claim on the bicycle insurance hed bought from The Plan Group 
the day before. 
The Plan Group sent the bike to a carbon bike repair specialist (the repair specialist) and 
asked for a full inspection report of the damage. In light of that report The Plan Group 
accepted Mr Os claim for damage to his cycling shoes and for the repair of the top tube of 
his bike, which they accepted had been caused by the crash. But they declined the claim for 
damage to the seat post clamp and to the steerer tube as the inspection report said this 
damage was caused by over-tightening of the seat post clamp and stem clamp bolts 
respectively. As such, they said it was excluded under the section of Mr Os policy that said 
the failure to use or maintain the bike in accordance with the manufacturers instructions was 
not covered. 
Mr O didnt agree. He has an engineering background and he put forward a lot of evidence 
in an attempt to prove the damage to the seat post clamp and steerer tube was more likely 
to have been caused by the crash. This included reports from the manufacturer of the bike, 
and a further report he sought from another bike shop. The Plan Group responded to the 
points made but didnt change their view that the damage was caused by over-tightening 
and wasnt therefore covered under his policy.
Our investigator didnt think The Plan Group had acted unfairly in declining the part of Mr Os 
claim in dispute. As Mr O didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Mr Os bicycle insurance policy covers him for accidental damage and says it will either 
repair or replace the damaged parts. It says The Plan Group may use specialist suppliers for 
repair or replacement and may use carbon repair specialists to evaluate structural damage. The policy doesnt cover any damage caused by the failure to use or maintain the bike in 
accordance with the manufacturers instructions. The Plan Group accepted Mr Os claim for 
damage to his shoes and some parts of his bike. But they declined to cover the damage to 
the seat clamp and the steerer tube as those parts had been caused by over-tightening and 
were therefore caught by the exclusion about not maintaining the bike according to the 
manufacturers instructions. My role is to decide whether that decision was fair and 
reasonable. And in light of the evidence Ive seen, I think it was. Let me explain why.
The Plan Group relied on the inspection report prepared by the repair specialist. The report 
concludes that fractures to the seat post clamp and to the steerer tube were caused by 
heavy over-torquing (over-tightening) of the seat clamp and stem clamp bolts respectively. In 
response, Mr O provided further information about the crash, particularly that his handlebars 
had rotated and he believed this was done with such force that it caused the damage to the 
steerer tube. The Plan Group explained why they didnt agree. And when Mr O approached 
them, the repair specialists said that while the new information might have caused them to 
say they were unable to determine the cause of the damage, they stood by their 
assessment. They accepted there was a degree of interpretation required when doing these 
kinds of reports but they can make an educated assessment and they still believed the 
damage was caused by over-tightening.
Mr O provided further information in the form of a report from the manufacturer of the bike. 
This said that the damage was a result of an external force and that there was clear impact 
(crash) damage. Mr O also provided his interpretation of what had happened and 
subsequently another report from the manufacturer which said the damage to the steerer 
tube was caused by the twisting impact of the crash. And the crack on the seat post was 
probably a result of the crash as well. A further report from another bike shop reached very 
similar conclusions. Both believed it would take a considerable amount of pressure to cause 
damage by over-tightening.
Ive reviewed all of the evidence available to me and, on balance, Im persuaded more by the 
findings from the inspection report prepared by the repair specialists. The Plan Group said 
the inspection report they commissioned was more detailed than the visual inspection 
carried out by the manufacturer. I think thats a reasonable conclusion. The report prepared 
by the repair specialists says they use a variety of methods to provide them with evidence to 
reach their conclusions, which can include microscopes, stress-tests, ultrasound and 
thermographic imaging. They also explain the way they record their findings, which includes 
providing photographic evidence. 
The Plan Group spoke to the manufacturer and they say the person who prepared their 
report accepted hed not carried out a technical inspection of the bike and had based his 
judgement on his experience working in a bike shop. He said he hadnt seen the indentation 
from bolts showing theyd been over-tightened. In contrast, the repair specialists provided 
photographic evidence of the indentation. The report concluded that the over-tightening was 
apparent because the plate which clamps against the steerer tube had wear marks from the 
clamp bolts, which it said isnt normal. And the fracture pattern on the steerer tube had also 
left a stamp on the plate which showed just how tightly the plate had been pushed up 
against the steerer tube. 
The Plan Group also responded to other issues raised by Mr O, including comments he 
made about marks on the inside of the stem and the manufacturers belief that the damage 
was caused by an external force. They also highlighted the parts of the manufacturers 
guidance which emphasises the special characteristics of carbon and the need for careful 
maintenance. Im satisfied they responded fairly and reasonably to these issues.Having carefully considered all the evidence available to me, I think it was reasonable for 
The Plan Group to rely on the repair specialists report to decline part of Mr Os claim. And to 
maintain that decision when Mr O provided further evidence to support his arguments. Its 
possible the crash exacerbated the damage to the seat post and the steerer tube but Im 
persuaded by the repair specialists report that the damage was more likely to have been 
caused by the over-tightening of the seat clamp and the stem clamp bolts, rather than the 
crash. 
In light of the above, I think it was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for The Plan 
Group to decline Mr Os claim for the repair or replacement of some parts of his damaged 
bike because of the exclusion theyve cited. I dont think they need to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman