DRN-3660245
The complaint
Mr J complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr J is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around February 2018, Mr J was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr J decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In June 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Js behalf under section 75 of the 
Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr J to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500).
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr J or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr J and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the adjudicator had placed too much weight on one document, Ps quote;
the quote did not reflect what the salesman had said in the sales meeting;
the quote had not been produced at the meeting but only afterwards, and then 
emailed to Mr J after he had already agreed to buy the system;
most of the figures in the quote relating to the savings and break-even point are 
based on the systems cash price and do not include the cost of the loan;
Ps training documents indicated that it had been training its sales staff to tell 
consumers that the system would not cost them anything and would pay for itself, 
contradicting the quote;
the system would actually take 12 years to pay for itself, which was longer than the 
loan term of 10 years, and it wasnt credible that Mr J would agree to that if he had 
not been misled (especially when more attractive investment opportunities had been 
available instead);
P had been subject to disciplinary investigations by a body of which it had once been 
a member, in 2013 and again in 2017;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr J paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr J could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr J and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies that any commission was paid, and I have seen no 
evidence to the contrary, so I do not accept that it was.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr J says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement, the solar quote, titled Getting Started, and some training documents produced by P. Ive considered these, along with Mr Js testimony and recollection of the 
sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process during the meeting, and 
the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with Mr J, explaining any benefits 
of the system, prior to him agreeing to enter into the contract. It would have been produced 
at the meeting and shown to him on the salesmans laptop, and subsequently emailed to 
him.
Mr J disputes this. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr J simply took the salesmans 
word for it when he was told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  
paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing him a penny, without at any point 
asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Mr J has simply 
forgotten seeing the quote over the three years between the sale and the bringing of his 
claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotation did form a central 
part of the sales process when Mr J agreed to enter into the contract, and therefore accept 
that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So Ive taken this into account, 
along with Mr Js version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue 
statements of fact.
The training documents are two documents created by P, one called How does it work? 
and one which is untitled. These are two-page documents setting out information about how 
the system saves money for the purchaser and pays for the loan. In summary, they both 
contain clear and unequivocal promises that the purchaser will not have to make any 
contribution towards the loan repayments because these will be covered by the returns from 
the system. It has not been suggested that Mr J actually saw these documents; rather, P 
used them to train its salespeople. Therefore the CMC argues (not unreasonably) that the 
probative value of these documents is that, if this is how the salesman who met Mr J was 
trained to describe and explain the system, then this strongly supports Mr Js recollection of 
what he was told. The bold statements in the short training documents contradict the quote, 
which is 22 pages long and full of detail.
The training documents are undated. However, How does it work? contains a FIT tariff 
which dates from November 2012 to June 2013, so I infer that this document must have 
been produced during that period. I am aware of the RECC disciplinary proceedings against 
P in 2013. I believe that the format of the quote like the one used in Mr Js case was adopted 
in 2014, following guidance from trading standards officials. For these reasons, it seems 
likely to me that the other training document probably also dates from 2013 or earlier.
The How does it work? document specifically calls the loan a solarloan (one word; the 
correct style is SolarLoan). This was not a Shawbrook product, but was a pay as you 
save loan provided by a third party called Engensa Limited (which went into liquidation in 
February 2014 and was dissolved in 2017). The untitled training document does not refer to 
the SolarLoan by name but it does appear to describe it, so Im satisfied that this document 
is about the SolarLoan too.
As Ive said, Mr J was approached by P in February 2018, and he was sold a Shawbrook 
loan not an Engensa SolarLoan. So I think that by then the training documents would have 
been obsolete, and that they do not represent what Ps salespeople were telling prospective customers in 2016. They are a red herring. On the balance of probabilities, I think that the 
salesmans pitch to Mr J would have been consistent with what it says in the quote.
FIT payments and savings
Mr J has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Js recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr J could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr J could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £140.28. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr J 
could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are £419.25 and, 
when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr J, the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £734.13. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
This results in an average monthly income of about £60. Im satisfied that the same 
document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £100.38. As a result, 
Im not able to conclude that Mr J was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr J entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £100.28. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £100.26, but the difference  2p  is too small to matter.) For 
each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It 
then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give 
an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. This gives negative figures for the first nine years of the loan 
(shown in red), meaning that the system would not begin to make enough money to cover 
the loan payments until year ten (shown in green).
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr J could expect to receive from the system, by 
way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Mr Js version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the 
sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr J that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Mr J, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im 
also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr J was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Putting it all together part of the quote states in large font that it would take nine years 
for the overall benefits that Mr J could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system. This appears next to two other figures which expressly exclude the cost of the 
finance. So I think it would have been clear that the nine-year payback time refers to the 
cash price, not the cost of the finance.
I think that would have made it obvious that the time it would take for the system to cover not 
only its cash price but also the interest on the loan would be longer than nine years. Since 
the loan term was ten years, it was obvious that this might exceed the loan term.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This too shows that during year nine the overall benefits that Mr J could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,409. Again, the years of shortfall are 
shown in red, and the subsequent years in green. (To save space I have only shown the first 
12 years here.)
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £12,031, 
would be reached by the end of year 12.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr J that the system would pay for its cash price in 9 years, and 
for the loan in about 12 years. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that 
this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, 
then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance 
of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr J.
Performance: energy generation
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,150 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr Js FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 1,805 kWh a year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (84%), so I agree that the system is not performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in the claim under section 75 in 2021, and so I do 
not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this basis. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr J was told that the system was 
supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks answer was 
that the quote had made it clear all along that this would not be the case. Shawbrook didnt 
have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was generating as much 
energy as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it. Then, if Mr J is still not satisfied, he may bring a new 
complaint to our service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to deal with that 
issue now, except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr Js claim under section 75.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that [consumer]s original section 75 claim did include a complaint to the 
effect that the system was not generating the estimated financial returns, and that the 
system had therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So I have considered whether the 
estimated financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to 
generate as much energy as estimated.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and the increases 
have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think this explains why Mr J 
hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr J could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr J entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr J that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell him during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr J to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman