DRN-3592364
The complaint
Mr M has complained about advice given to him by Insight Financial Associates Limited to 
switch his existing pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr M received advice from Insight in 2013 that led to him switching his existing pensions to a 
SIPP and then to investing the funds held within the SIPP. Mr M complained to Insight in 
March 2021 as he felt the advice hed received was unsuitable and had caused him to suffer 
a loss. Insight didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It felt the advice was suitable and it said the 
recommended investments were in line with Mr Ms attitude to risk.
Mr M referred his complaint to us in October 2021. Insight objected to us investigating the 
complaint as it felt it had been made too late. Although our investigator thought we could 
investigate the complaint, he didnt think it should be upheld as he felt the advice was 
suitable. Mr M disagreed with our investigator and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction
Although Insight doesnt appear to disagree with our investigators opinion, Ill firstly confirm 
why I think this complaint was referred to us in time.
We cant consider a complaint if its referred it to us more than six years after the event 
complained about happened, or if that six year period has passed more than three years 
from the date on which the consumer became aware (or ought reasonably to have become 
aware) that they had cause for complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Mr M referred the complaint to us more than six years the 
advice. So, the issue is whether he referred it to us more than three years after he became 
aware or ought reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for complaint about the 
advice.
Insight feels this was in 2013, when Mr M received the advice. Mr M on the other hand says 
he asked the advisor about the investment in 2016 as it hadnt returned what he expected, 
but he was told to sit tight. He further says it was only when he spoke to another advisor 
around 2020 that became aware of a cause for complaint.
Theres nothing in the documents Ive seen from 2013 that I think ought to have alerted Mr M 
to the fact that there might have been something wrong. Insight recommended that Mr M 
switch his pensions to a SIPP and said the recommendation was made for potential growth. 
Various risks were pointed out, but the overall advice was to switch. I dont think there was 
anything that should have led Mr M at that stage to question the advice he was given or the 
overall process the advisor followed in making the recommendation. If he thought or 
suspected that the advice was unsuitable I think its unlikely he would have proceeded.
Most of Mr Ms funds were invested in a plan with a six-year term. The start date of this 
investment was June 2013 so any return on it wouldnt be known until June  2019. It 
therefore follows that the earliest Mr M could have/ought to have realised there may have 
been a problem with the advice would have been June 2019  as this is when he ought to 
have expected to see a return from his investment.
I havent seen anything else to suggest that Mr M ought to have become aware of a cause 
for complaint any earlier than 2019. As Mr M complained to us in 2021  ie within three 
years  I conclude that the complaint was brought to us in time.
The merits of Mr Ms complaint
It's important for me to look at Mr Ms circumstances at the time of the advice. In that regard, 
the Fact Find document recorded that Mr M wanted to:
explore the possibility of moving his pension from Equitable Life as he was concerned 
with the future selling of the fund
consolidate his Equitable Life pension with a Halifax pension with the potential of getting 
some investment returns.
Mr M confirmed these objectives during a telephone conversation with our investigator  he 
referred to the Equitable Life pension not making any money over the previous four to five 
years and to him wanting to consolidate his pensions. He also confirmed that one of his 
priorities was not to lose any of his pension.
I think its fair to conclude that in 2013 Mr M was looking to move away from his Equitable 
Life pension as he was concerned its performance, and he wanted to consolidate this with 
his Halifax pension.
In 2009 the regulator published a report and checklist for pension switching that identified 
areas where consumers had lost out, including:
theyd been switched to a more expensive pension without good reason
theyd lost benefits in the pension switch (eg a guaranteed annuity rate) without good 
reason
theyd switched to a pension that didnt match their attitude to risk and personal 
circumstances.
In considering this type of complaint I often look at these same issues. But ultimately the 
reasons for recommending the switch need to be sound and the potential for Mr M to be 
better off has to be enough to compensate for the risk that he might end up worse off. Two 
general points I firstly confirm though are:
advice isnt necessarily suitable just because it allowed a consumer to meet their 
objectives  this is because the advisors role was to assess the consumers 
needs/objectives and to act in their best interests by making a suitable recommendation; 
its not to simply facilitate what the consumer wanted to do because even though they 
might have wanted something it doesnt mean they needed it or should be recommended 
itconversely, the investment not growing as much as a consumer had hoped doesnt 
necessarily mean that the advice was unsuitable  this is because growth may be lower 
than expected for a number of reasons.
The Recommendation Report set out the advisors recommendation and reasons for it. In 
summary, the advisor recommended that Mr M switch his pensions because he wanted an 
investment strategy that took away the volatility of being invested directly in the market but 
still allowed for potential growth.
I think there were some potential failures in the advisors recommendation. One example is 
that the reason given for the switch was to remove the investment volatility, but there was no 
explanation about less volatile investments that could have been made within the existing 
pensions. Another example is that the option of Mr M switching the pensions to his existing 
employers scheme was discounted because Mr M wanted to keep these investments 
separate. But the advice should have been based on Mr Ms best interests and what was 
suitable. And, as Ive alluded to above, what Mr M wanted didnt automatically mean it was in 
his best interests or was suitable for him.
Nevertheless, having said that, Im satisfied that on the whole the advice  both to switch the 
pensions and on the investments  was suitable. I say this for the following reasons.
Firstly, I think based on the Fact Find and what Mr M told our investigator that Mr Ms main 
purpose for seeking advice was to move away from Equitable Life as he hadnt seen his 
pension grow for four or five years. So I think this was a real want for Mr M. Although 
facilitating a want isnt necessarily enough for advice to be suitable, I can see that the 
advisor compared projections from the existing plans against the SIPP. And based on 7% 
growth the projections for the Halifax and Equitable Life plans totalled £74,100, which 
compared to the projection for the SIPP being £115,000. So it appeared at the time the 
advice would potentially see Mr Ms SIPP grow favourably in comparison to the existing 
pensions he held  particularly given the lack of growth Mr M had seen in previous years.
In respect of the investments, the Fact Find recorded that Mr Ms attitude to risk was medium 
 which was described as him being prepared to accept a medium degree of risk in that his 
investment might fall in value as well as rise, with the potential of higher returns over the 
long-term. Mr M confirmed this was correct in his conversation with our investigator. I 
nevertheless note that the recommendation report later produced said that while Mr Ms 
attitude to risk had been assessed as medium, he wanted to take a more cautious approach 
in respect of his retirement as he was concerned about the investment market and didnt 
want to take unnecessary risk with his funds.
The recommended investments held within the SIPP were:
Gilliat Diversified Asset Deposit Plan 1 (70%)  described as low to medium risk
C F Miton Special Situations (25%)  described as medium risk
Cash (5%)  described as low risk
So 75% of Mr Ms pension was invested in low or low to medium risk investments. And there 
was no risk of loss on the Gilliat investment because after the six-year investment period, as 
a minimum, the original amount Mr M invested would be repaid  which satisfied his wish to 
not lose any of his investment. Im therefore satisfied that these recommended investments 
were in line with Mr Ms wish to take a more cautious approach and his priority to not lose 
any of his investment.In respect of costs, its unclear to me whether the SIPP was more expensive than the 
existing pensions or not. At one point the recommendation report said This recommendation 
is more expensive than your ceding scheme but later it said we have calculated that the 
recommended plan is a cheaper contract than your ceding scheme(s).
Equitable Lifes annual charge was 0.5% of the fund value and Halifaxs annual charge was 
0.9% of the fund value. I calculate those charges to total around £287.
The SIPP had a £100 annual administration charge and a platform charge of 0.35% of the 
fund value. There was also a transfer charge of £50 per plan and a dealing charge of £15 
per switch (I assume these were only charged upon the switch and not every year). I 
calculate the charges on the SIPP to total around £380 (or around £250 if my assumption on 
the transfer and dealing charges is correct). There was also a charge on the Gilliat 
investment but this was rebated to the pension.
Even though the SIPP might have been more expensive, I dont consider it unreasonably or 
excessively so  it remained competitive. And even though it might have been more 
expensive, the regulator only identified situations where consumers had lost out if they 
switched to a more expensive pension without good reason. And given Mr Ms want to move 
away from Equitable and to consolidate his pensions, and the projected increased growth for 
the SIPP, I think overall there was good reason to recommend the switch.
There were further charges payable to Insight. One was the charge for the advice  but Mr M 
would have been charged this regardless as the advisor wasnt working for free.
The second was an ongoing annual advisor charge that Mr M agreed to. Mr M referred to 
these ongoing fees being charged by Insight despite no-one contacting him following the 
initial advice to review is pension. The complaint he made to Insight (and which Insight 
considered) only concerned the 2013 advice. I cant decide a complaint unless Insight has 
had the opportunity to put things right first. I havent therefore considered the merits of any 
complaint Mr M might have about the ongoing fees being charged. If Mr M wishes to pursue 
a complaint in this respect he will need to complain to Insight directly. I make him aware 
though  for information only  that Insight has told us that it has already refunded all fees it 
received from February 2014 onwards.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman