DRN-2898291
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined her pet 
insurance claim because of a pre-existing condition.
What happened
Ms S took out a pet insurance policy for her pet dog (who Ill call M for ease) and the 
policy started on 16 October 2019.
When she took the policy out, Ms S said M was in good health and hadnt been to 
see a vet for some time.
A claim form for Ms treatment was completed on 5 December 2019. On this form, 
Ms S said she first noticed M was unwell on 2 December 2019. The treating vet 
confirmed M had been given treatment for gastroenteritis from 3 December 2019 to 
23 January 2020. Ms Ss claim was for the vets bill shed incurred for the treatment 
M had received in December 2019 through to January 2020.
RSA assessed the claim and requested Ms previous medical history. This showed 
he had regular treatment from June 2015 until October 2019 with a previous vet. The 
medical history also showed M had episodes of diarrhoea between April 2019 to 
December 2019. Gastroenteritis was eventually diagnosed in January 2020. The 
treating vet was contacted to see whether the claim was linked to previous recurring 
gastric issues. They responded and said they couldnt say whether there was a link 
between Ms previous history and the episodes displayed between 3 December 2019 
and 23 January 2020.
The vets response was reviewed by RSAs internal vets. They said based on the 
frequent recurring diarrhoea before the policy inception, the subsequent diagnosis of 
gastroenteritis and their own review, RSA maintained its decision to decline the claim 
due to a pre-existing condition. 
Ms S was unhappy with RSAs decision and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Ms S 
should have made RSA aware of Ms previous medical history when the policy was 
taken out. As it wasnt made aware, she didnt think RSA had acted inappropriately in 
declining the claim due to a pre-existing condition.
Ms S disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.
Ms S said we havent considered the vets evidence which said it couldnt say there 
was a link between the previous episodes and the more recent illness. She also said 
M had never been diagnosed with gastroenteritis and cant understand why the claim 
would be declined on that basis.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 June 2021 and said the following:
The key issue I need to decide is whether RSA has reviewed the claim in line with the terms
and conditions of the policy and whether its fairly declined the claim on the basis of a pre-
existing condition.
I will also consider the complaint Ms S has made regarding the delays shes experienced
when RSA was assessing the claim.
With regards to complaints where the claim has been declined due to a pre-existing
condition, its not unusual to see that virtually every pet insurance policy will say theres no
cover for pre-existing conditions. This isnt unreasonable  insurers are entitled to decide
what risks they want to cover, and they wont normally want to cover something thats
already present.
And if an insurer refuses a claim for this reason, there are two main things we need to
consider:
policy wording
what did the consumer know?
Policy wording
Ive considered the exclusion which RSA has relied on to decline the claim:
If you or your vet notice changes in your pets health or behaviour before the policy
was taken out...we will consider this to be a pre-existing condition or illness and it will
not be covered by your policy. We will not pay for any illness or injury that develops
from these existing changes, conditions, illnesses or injuries.
In the circumstances of this case, this means if Ms health or behaviour changed before the
policy was taken out, RSA would exclude this issue as a pre-existing condition. I can see Ms
medical history confirms he suffered with multiple recurring episodes of diarrhoea since April
2019.
Ive summarised what the medical history shows:
April 2019  M was off food, hed vomited once and now had watery diarrhoea.
August 2019  he was unwell again. He had severe diarrhoea.
September and October 2019  there was mention of diarrhoea.
All of this happened prior to the inception of the policy and suggests there was a change in
Health/behaviour. M was diagnosed in January 2020 as having gastroenteritis. So, while I 
accept Ms S wouldnt have known the specific diagnosis until this time, this isnt what Im 
looking at here and is not the test. Its the noticed change in behaviour that is the test and 
which I can see isnt actually in dispute here. It seems to me, on balance, that the observed 
changes in 2019 were likely an indication of the condition that was later diagnosed. I think 
the wording in the policy is clear enough, so Im satisfied that the exclusion RSA has applied 
to decline the claim is appropriate and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
What did the customer know?
When Ms S took out the policy, based on the information available, she would have known
something was wrong with M. I say this because she had visited the previous vet from April
2015 to October 2019. And specifically, from April 2019 to October 2019, M had been unwell
and was suffering from vomiting. He also showed symptoms of diarrhoea. M was showing
signs of illness and when Ms S took him to the second vet in December 2019, he was
showing signs of illness which were similar to the previous visits.
When Ms S completed the claim form for RSA, she said she hadnt taken M to see a vet in
ages. This wasnt an accurate reflection or account of what had happened. I appreciate its
hard to quantify the term ages. Usually this meaning would be taken as for a long time.The policy schedule states that at policy inception, Ms S told RSA that M was in good health
and not showing any signs of illness, injury or medical conditions. While that might have
been the case as M had treatment previously and may not have been necessarily showing
signs of medical conditions, she still would have needed to inform RSA what he had been
treated for previously with the previous vet. Had she made RSA aware of this, it would have 
likely recorded this as a pre-existing condition under the policy and M would not have had 
cover for this on the policy.
In summary, from the information available, M was receiving regular treatment before the
RSA policy was incepted. His medical history shows recurring episodes of diarrhoea before
the policy was taken out and again, had similar symptoms when he was treated in December
2019 to January 2020.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was fair for RSA to rely on the exclusion and
to decline the claim, so I wont be asking it to do anymore.
Time taken to assess claim
Ms S has said RSA caused delays in handling the claim. Ive considered what happened. I 
can see there were delays caused but I dont think overall this was as a result of what RSA 
did. 
It requested further information from RSA but Ms S wasnt always able to provide this 
information and it took further prompts from RSA for Ms S to provide this information. Im not 
persuaded therefore that RSA caused delays in handling the claim.
Ms S has said that RSA asked a third party to investigate the claim and this upset Ms S and
caused her distress. I understand this; however, this isnt something Im able to comment on
as it hasnt formed part of the complaint she made to RSA.
RSA responded to my provisional decision and said it has nothing further to add and agrees 
with it. 
Ms S responded and provided her comments as to why she disagrees. In summary, she 
says:
RSA cant put an exclusion just because M had an upset tummy, he was very unwell 
at the time;
The vet said a definite link couldnt be made between the two episodes of illness;
Weve failed to look at the actual events and have painted an inaccurate picture; and
The investigation by the third party took a whole year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the comments Ms S has made. However, I dont consider these to be new and 
Ive already considered these in my provisional decision.  
I appreciate that M was very unwell and he needed treatment. I understand also that 
Ms S is upset because RSA has declined the claim. 
However, having carefully considered everything, in the circumstances of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. Im therefore not upholding Ms Ss complaint. Im satisfied that it was fair for RSA to rely on the exclusion and to decline the 
claim. Im also not persuaded that RSA caused delays in the handling of this claim. 
Overall Im not persuaded Ms S has been treated unfairly or unreasonably by RSA. As such, 
I dont think it needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman