DRN-4387776
Complaint
Mr L complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement were 
unaffordable. 
Background
In June 2018, Oodle provided Mr L with finance for a used car. The purchase price of the 
vehicle was £14,257.31. Mr L paid a deposit of £30 (£139 of the £169 he paid was for 
insurance) and entered into a hire-purchase agreement with Oodle for the remaining 
£14,227.31. 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £6,857.69 (comprising of interest of 
£6,757.69, a document fee of £50 and an option to purchase fee of £50), and a 60-month 
term. This mean that the total amount to be repaid of £21,085.00 (not including the deposit) 
was due to be repaid in 1 monthly instalment of £399.75, followed by 58 monthly instalments 
of £349.75 and then a final instalment of £399.75. 
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Oodle had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr L unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint 
should be upheld. Mr L disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Oodle needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Oodle needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr L before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ls complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Oodle says it agreed to this application after Mr L provided details of his monthly income. It 
says it also carried out credit searches on Mr L which showed some outstanding balances 
and an account in difficulty. But when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr Ls 
living expenses were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments were still 
affordable. On the other hand, Mr L says his existing commitments meant that these 
payments were unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain 
them.
Ive thought about what Mr L and Oodle have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
Oodle carried out did go far enough. I dont think it was reasonable to rely on an estimate of 
Mr Ls living costs given there was some adverse information on his credit file, even if one of 
the defaults had been settled. 
As Oodle didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think Oodle is more 
likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mr L. Bearing in mind 
what Oodle saw, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly 
payment, I would have expected Oodle to have had a reasonable understanding about      
Mr Ls regular living expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. 
The information Mr L has provided does appear to show that when his committed regular 
living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly income, he 
did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this 
agreement. 
I accept that the real reason for Mr Ls inability to make his payments to this agreement 
wasnt due to his existing credit commitments or his living expenses. And this might have 
been apparent when Mr Ls bank statements are considered. But what I need to think about 
here is what did Oodle need to do in order to answer the questions its initial checks left 
unanswered  in other words, what were Mr Ls actual regular living expenses (bearing in his 
credit commitments were already validated by the credit search)?  given this was a first 
agreement and Mr L was being provided with a car rather than cash. 
Bearing in mind checking bank statements wasnt the only way for Oodle to have found out 
more about Mr Ls actual living costs  it could have obtained copies of bills or other 
evidence of payment etc  I dont think that proportionate checks would have extended into 
obtaining the bank statements Mr L has now provided us with. So I dont think that Oodle 
could reasonably be expected to have known about the nature and extent of Mr Ls 
additional spending. 
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Oodles checks 
before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr L did go far enough, Im satisfied 
that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped Oodle from 
providing these funds, or entering into this agreement. 
So Im satisfied that Oodle didnt act unfairly towards Mr L when it agreed to provide the 
funds. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr L. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to. My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman