DRN-3766405
The complaint
Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, lent irresponsibly when providing 
him with two credit limit increases on his credit card account in 2018. Hes also unhappy with 
a default notice it applied to the account in 2021.
What happened
Mr P applied for a Barclays credit card in 2004. Barclays increased the credit limit from 
£5,670 to £7,200 in February 2018 and again to £8,700 in October 2018. 
By 2021, Mr P had fallen into financial difficulty. He complained to Barclays about it putting 
his account into default despite it leading him to believe that wouldnt happen yet in a call a 
few days earlier of 5 November 2021. At that stage, he hadnt yet complained that Barclays 
had lent to him irresponsibly regarding the two credit limit increases.
Barclays responded to Mr P to say it hadnt acted unfairly in registering the default given the 
position of the account. But it did believe hed been told on the call that the account would be 
put on hold for 30 days. Hed not been told the account would be closed on 10 November 
2021. By way of an apology for the poor service Mr P had received, Barclays credited £50 to 
his bank account.  
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr P complained to this service. He said Barclays actions 
came as a surprise to him despite the calls hed had with Barclays just prior and were likely 
to negatively impact his ability to obtain credit in future. Mr P also complained that Barclays 
had lent to him irresponsibly given his financial situation in 2018.  
Our investigator gathered information regarding the lending as that aspect had only been 
raised by Mr P once Barclays had responded to his initial complaint. Barclays said it hadnt 
lent to him irresponsibly as it instructed a credit reference agency (CRA) to assess Mr P 
against its lending criteria taking account of his income, living costs, existing commitments, 
and management of his account.
The investigator didnt believe Barclays had done anything wrong regarding its lending 
decisions. But they did think Barclays payment of £50 as compensation was too low given 
they felt Mr P would have acted to avoid the default had he been given the opportunity. The 
investigator considered that Barclays should remove the default marker from Mr Ps credit 
history and pay a further £300 as compensation on top of the payment it had already made. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings about the lending decisions made in 2018 or 
the amount of compensation payable for the default. In summary, he said Barclays should 
have known the additional credit it arranged for him would cause him financial difficulty. That 
was because he was already in substantial debt and that wasnt decreasing. He also said 
hed only been making the minimum repayments on the account for many years leading up 
to 2018 and that should have served as a warning that he couldnt manage a higher credit 
limit. 
Regarding the level of compensation the investigator recommended, Mr P said the default 
marker would have a negative impact on him even if Barclays was to remove it. He said he 
wasnt looking for Barclays to be punished, but the £300 it had been asked to pay didnt 
reflect its actions.
Barclays didnt agree with the findings either. It felt that removing the default, and then 
possibly adding it again which was likely to happen due to his ongoing financial problems, 
would only result in it remaining on his credit file for longer. Barclays also felt a further £300 
compensation was excessive given it was only at fault for the way in which it informed Mr P 
about the marker, rather than for the marker itself being applied incorrectly.  
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh. On reviewing the complaint, I issued a provisional decision upholding it. I agreed with 
the investigator that Barclays should pay Mr P £300 as compensation for its errors. But I also 
felt Barclays had lent irresponsibly to him in relation to the credit limit increases applied in 
2018. I asked it to put things right for Mr P in that regard as well.
I gave the parties the chance to respond before I reconsidered the complaint. Mr P 
confirmed he accepted my decision. He added that he wanted Barclays to agree to freeze 
interest from this point and that any agreed payment arrangement between them shouldnt 
show as a payment arrangement on his credit file. He believed that to be a reasonable 
request.
Barclays also accepted my provisional decision, adding it could pay the £300 towards Mr Ps 
Barclays account or into his bank account. If he chose the latter, Barclays would need his 
sort code and account number.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, and on considering the responses to my provisional decision, my final 
decision is to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Barclays treated Mr P 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit limit increases. These include:
1) Did Barclays complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did Barclays make fair lending decisions?  
4) Did Barclays act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did Barclays complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would 
be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? The rules that Barclays had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Mr P could afford to repay the credit being offered. This is often 
referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks Barclays needed to carry out, but they did set 
out that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I 
think what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of Barclays checks needed 
to reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the 
interest rate, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of customer 
vulnerability.  
The checks Barclays needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the credit back would cause Mr P any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate being charged. 
This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Mr P had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to meet the credit card repayments with a low income. 
Barclays would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on his income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether Barclays completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay his credit card in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the credit limit increases are as follows:
Mr P initially applied for the credit card in 2004.
The increases complained about were applied in February and October 2018. Mr P was 
in paid work at the time. 
The credit limit was increased substantially in 2018, by £1,530 and finally by £1,500. 
Prior to increasing the credit limit, Barclays instructed a CRA to assess Mr Ps financial 
situation. According to the CRA, he had external credit card balances of more than £21,000 
and current account balances of less than £800. The CRA held no record of any external 
loan or mortgage balances or payments. Mr P didnt regularly pay his Barclays credit card 
bill in full and, on average, paid back around 3% of the balance each month. The CRA 
estimated Mr P paid around £1,100 to £1,200 a month for things like rent, essential 
spending, utilities, and council tax.  
In terms of his existing limit, Barclays suggests there was no significant cause for concern. 
Although I note that, while Mr P seemed to be managing the account to an extent, he was 
only roughly making the minimum monthly repayments and his level of borrowing had 
increased along with each credit limit increase that Barclays provided him with. The average 
monthly repayment he was making was only 3% of the balance and this didnt suggest he 
could repay the borrowing itself. 
By 2018, Mr P also owed a significant sum  more than £21,000  to third-party credit card 
providers. I think this meant further borrower focussed checks were warranted, especially 
since the credit limit was due to go up again and by significant amounts. The indications from this were that Mr P might have had problems repaying the balance on his account with 
the existing credit limit. There was a real risk that increasing the credit limit further might 
cause further problems for him.
I also havent seen anything to show Barclays was aware of Mr Ps income in 2018. I realise 
it may have had a record of it when the account started in 2004, but that was 14 years 
before the credit limits were increased and there was a risk that things had materially 
changed during that time.   
Mr Ps provided a copy of an email he sent to Barclays in December 2015. In it, he talked 
about being in hardship, having to arrange high cost borrowing and being unable to buy his 
children anything for Christmas. I realise that was just over two years before the first credit 
limit increase, but I think it put Barclays on notice that Mr P had been in financial difficulty 
before the credit limit was raised and that it might be prudent to ask questions before 
increasing his borrowing further.
While I note Barclays says the CRA was confident Mr P had a regular monthly income that 
exceeded his expenditure, I cant see what information that decision was based on.  
As Ive already alluded to, Barclayss internal lending policy isnt a determining factor in this 
case. The question is more one of whether it acted in accordance with the lending rules and 
regulations of the time. Bearing in mind the above, and that I cant see that Barclays had an 
up-to-date record of Mr Ps income in 2018, I dont believe the checks Barclays carried out 
prior to the credit limit increases showed he could sustainably afford to make the 
repayments. I dont think that the checks were, on balance, reasonable and proportionate. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I cant fairly uphold the complaint purely on the basis that I believe Barclays fell short in 
respect of the checks it needed to carry out. I must also go on to consider whether such 
checks ought to have made a difference to Barclays lending decision. 
 
I think Barclays should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted 
to the circumstances of its offers to Mr P. Credit limit increases of around £1,500 
represented a relatively substantial extra financial burden in addition to his existing 
borrowing. Given this and the information Barclays had about Mr P further checks would, in 
my opinion, have needed to verify his income in 2018. These would have been in addition to 
the checks it carried out and to establish that he was able to afford the increased credit 
limits.
 
One of the difficulties, given several years have passed since the credit limit increases were 
offered, is understanding what reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown had 
Barclays carried them out. However, on my instruction our investigator asked Mr P for details 
of his income in 2018 which has helped provide a more accurate picture of his financial 
situation at the time.
In the absence of any specific questions from Barclays in 2018, I wanted to know what 
Mr Ps income was back then. Hes confirmed that, prior to 2019, he was self-employed. He 
said his income fluctuated because of the nature of his work but that he earned £9,165 in 
2018. I see no reason to doubt what Mr Ps said about this.
That being the case, it seems reasonable and proportionate checks in 2018 would have 
shown Barclays that Mr P was on a relatively low income. Thats in addition to what Barclays 
was already aware of via the CRA  including that Mr P already owed around £21,000 to third-party credit card providers and that his Barclays credit card balance was steadily 
increasing over time. 
Did Barclays make a fair lending decision?  
That Mr Ps income was relatively low at the time of the lending decisions, hed regularly 
been paying around 3% of his credit card balance, and was known to have a significant level 
of borrowing with third-party credit card providers as well as with Barclays, all indicates to 
me that he was struggling financially or at least might be. 
I believe the indications are that borrower focussed checks by Barclays would have 
highlighted that Mr Ps financial situation was such that the credit he was offered in 2018 
was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him.
For these reasons, I think Barclays should have realised in the circumstances that it was 
unlikely Mr P would have been able to cope with the additional credit it was offering and that 
it wasnt appropriate to increase its lending to him by the amount in question in February 
2018. By extension, its likely that Barclays shouldnt have agreed to the further increase to 
the credit limit in October 2018 either. 
Did Barclays act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way.
Customer service and default applied in 2021
Barclays accepts that its made mistakes in its communications with Mr P. Primarily, these 
concern the two calls between Mr P and Barclays on 5 November 2021. Ive listened to 
recordings of both calls. In the first call, Mr P contacted Barclays and was told a hold would 
be placed on his account pending him and his wife potentially returning to work in the 
coming weeks. Mr P was advised to complete an updated income and expenditure 
assessment in due course. 
The advisor Mr P spoke to then called him back around 25 minutes later to say theyd realise 
Barclays had written to him in September 2021. The advisor said no hold needed to be 
applied to the account after all as interest charges etc. had already been suspended 
following that letter. The advisor went on to say Mr P should call back in a few weeks to go 
through his up-to-date income and expenditure figures. Mr P agreed to do that.
What the advisor didnt address with Mr P was that the letter said a default would be applied 
to the account unless he brought the account up to date and arranged to pay the minimum 
payments by 10 November 2021  just five days after the call took place. 
I realise the consequences of not complying by the date given were set out in the letter. But I 
think Mr P reasonably  as many would in that situation  placed emphasis on what hed 
been told over the phone rather than on the contents of the letter sent two months earlier. 
And over the phone no mention was made of what Mr P needed to do to avoid a default or 
when he needed to do it.  
Barclays paid him £50 for the oversight but I dont think that sufficiently compensates Mr P. I 
say that because Im persuaded by what hes said about what hed have done to avoid the 
default being applied by, for example, borrowing money from family or friends. In the 
circumstances, I consider it reasonable to think on balance that no default would have been 
added to the account in November 2021 had Barclays properly advised Mr P at that time. To put things right for Mr P, I think Barclays should remove the default in question from 
Mr Ps credit history. 
In terms of financial compensation, I havent seen any evidence to show Mr Ps been treated 
less favourably by any third parties because of the default that was applied. It follows that I 
dont think it would be fair for me to ask Barclays to compensate him for any financial losses 
in that regard. Thats not to say that Mr P might not be treated less favourably in future or 
that it wouldnt be open for him in that situation to approach Barclays in the first instance in 
future should he believe that to be the case.
Nevertheless, for the distress and inconvenience I consider its actions have undoubtedly 
caused Mr P, I believe Barclays should pay him £300 as compensation in addition to the £50 
its already paid him.
In deciding this amount, Ive taken account of what Mr Ps said about potential future losses 
the default might cause him. However, it isnt possible for me to comment on that given 
those losses are hypothetical at this stage. And, as I gather Mr Ps aware, I can only make 
directions or awards as compensation  I have no powers to punish Barclays.
As for Mr Ps request that Barclays agree to freeze interest and that any agreed payment 
arrangement between them shouldnt show as a payment arrangement on his credit file, that 
would be for them to discuss between themselves. I make no award in relation to this 
complaint other than as set out below.
Putting things right
Barclays should put things right for Mr P in relation to the credit limit increases on the credit 
card in 2018, albeit hes had the benefit of the money borrowed and so may need to repay 
the principal amount. If theres still an outstanding balance due on Mr Ps credit card and 
Barclays has transferred the debt to a third party, then Barclays should buy back the debt if it 
can. Whether or not Barclays can buy back the debt, it should achieve the following: 
Rework the account to ensure that, from February 2018, interest is only charged on 
the first £5,670 outstanding  to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided.
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, 
Barclays should contact Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
the credit file. 
And
 
If the refund means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr P. 
And
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
Barclays should also pay Mr P £300, in addition to the £50 its already paid, in relation to its 
handling of the default applied to the account in November 2021 and the overall service provided. Mr P will need to confirm with Barclays as to which account hed like the £300 paid 
to and, if necessary, the account details.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, trading as Barclaycard, to put things right for Mr P as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman