DRN-4496861
The complaint
This complaints about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr and Mrs G hold with 
Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that BOS didnt apply the fixed 
interest rate product they took with a further advance to the existing mortgage as well. The 
fixed rate on the existing mortgage expired a few months later, and they say theyre now 
paying more in total than they can afford.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 22 November 2023, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs G and BOS. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mr and Mrs G being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of 
the main points, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G already had a BOS mortgage, on a fixed rate of 1.85%. This deal was 
arranged by their mortgage broker  a firm Ill call C - in 2020, when the outstanding 
balance was around £153,200. In common with most fixed rate interest products, this 
came with a clause requiring them to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) if they 
left the deal before the end date, which in this case was 31 January 2023.
In August 2022, Mr and Mrs G applied directly to BOS for a further advance of 
around £53,000 to fund an extension and home improvements. The new borrowing 
was on a separate fixed rate, 3.51% fixed until 31 October 2027, and came with an 
ERC of its own. 
In November 2022, C called Mr and Mr G to remind them the fixed rate on the main 
mortgage would be ending soon. They told C theyd already renewed the rate in 
August, but C disagreed. When they checked with BOS, they then realised that the 
3.51% rate only applied to the new borrowing. In January 2023, C arranged a new 
interest product on the main mortgage, a fixed rate of 4.90% until 30 April 2025. 
Mr and Mrs G complained to BOS that theyd been misled in August 2022 into 
believing that the 3.51% rate fixed until 31 October 2027 applied to the entire debt, 
and that the aggregate monthly instalment (around £840) wouldnt change in the 
meantime. With the new rate on the main mortgage, the aggregate monthly payment 
was around £1,080, and this was a struggle for them.
BOS largely rejected the complaint, and when it came here, the investigator who 
looked into wasnt persuaded to recommend it be upheld. Mr and Mrs G has asked 
for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
That has included listening to a recording of Mr and Mrs Gs phone conversation with 
BOS in August 2022 that led to the further advance being agreed. Having done so, 
the conclusions Ive reached arent materially different from the investigators, but 
they are more detailed. So Ive set them out in this provisional decision so that both 
parties can comment before I finalise them. 
In their email submission of 3 May 2023, Mr and Mrs G ask Why were we not 
offered a re-mortgage? Or explained to clearly that we were being sold further 
borrowing that was separate to our existing mortgage? They maintain that they 
werent told they were being sold extra borrowing on top of the existing mortgage 
until the very last minute of the phone call. 
Ive listened to the call (it runs for just under 100 minutes) and am satisfied that quite 
early on, the advisor set out that the purpose of the call was extra borrowing; at 1.59 
minutes, she mentioned Mr and Mrs G had already started the further advance 
online, with which they agree. 
The advisor then addressed the question of the fixed rate on the existing mortgage 
first, before getting into a discussion about Mr and Mrs Gs additional borrowing 
requirements. At 5.17 minutes, the advisor said: you have an interest rate running 
until January next year. She followed that up by saying they can look at reserving a 
new rate up to three months beforehand to take effect from February 2023.
The conversation returned to this area in more detail at around 24.05 minutes, when 
the advisor asked Mr and Mrs G if they wanted to review the existing mortgage. She 
mentioned they would need to pay an ERC to come out of it and said: but we could 
certainly look at it for you. Mr and Mrs G declined the suggestion and the 
conversation moved on to repayment strategies, and the risks of lending beyond 
retirement age, and how much Mr and Mrs G wanted to pay each month.
Mr and Mrs G said, at around 26.50 minutes, that they could pay an extra £269 on 
top of what they were already paying. Then, in response to a question about whether 
they needed or preferred interest rates to stay the same, they said they preferred 
them to stay the same, to protect themselves from rate rises. The advisor then listed 
the situations in which being on a fixed rate would make them liable to an ERC. One 
of those she mentioned, at around 27.10 minutes, was changing the rate with BOS.
But theres more to consider here; simply giving Mr and Mrs G the opportunity to 
review the rate didnt quite go far enough. Mr and Mrs G were on record in the conversation as wanting to protect themselves against the risk of rising rates, and 
rates were already rising in August 2022, and would continue to do so in the wake of 
the mini-budget of September 2022. 
BOSs advisor couldnt have foreseen the mini-budget, or its impact, but it seems to 
me there was already good reason in August 2022 to explain to Mr and Mrs G in a bit 
more detail that even with an ERC, they could still be better off taking a new rate on 
the main mortgage sooner rather than later. 
That then begs the question of what decision Mr and Mrs G might have made if they 
had been better informed. Thats not as simple as it might seem at first glance, not 
least because I cant take account of any hindsight that subsequent events might 
have given them since August 2022. I can only consider the knowledge they had, 
and would have had if the advisor had informed them a little better, during that call. 
The ERC for leaving the 1.85% rate before 31 January 2023 was 1% of the balance, 
so in the region of £1,450-£1,500 in monetary terms. Mr and Mrs G needed to be 
able to weigh the likelihood of recouping that sum by applying the five-year fixed rate 
of 3.51% to the existing mortgage as well as the further advance, rather than wait 
until 1 November 2022 to reserve a (potentially higher) fixed rate to take effect on 
1 February 2023.
What was needed to happen for Mr and Mrs G to recoup an ERC of 1% over five 
years was for comparable fixed rate products to go up by 0.2% between August and 
November 2022. If the mortgage advisor has presented them with that equation, 
even before the September 2022 mini-budget, its possible Mr and Mrs G might have 
concluded they would be better off, or at the very least no worse off, by switching 
rates on the existing mortgage at the same time as taking out the further advance. 
It would have given Mr and Mrs G stability over the amount they paid each month on 
the entire debt, and for the next five years. That aggregate payment would have 
higher than the £840 they have said was their upper limit, but it would still be less 
than theyre paying currently. To put that in context, the rate Mr and Mrs G are 
currently paying on the main mortgage is not 0.2% higher than it would be if theyd 
switched; its almost 1.4% higher.
So from this point of view, it might seem appropriate to direct BOS to reconstruct the 
main mortgage account on the basis that it was switched to the five-year fixed rate of 
3.51% on 1 October 2022 (Ive picked that date to allow time for the administration to 
have gone through) instead of to the two-year fixed rate of 4.90% on 1 February 
2023. That would require BOS adjusting all of the monthly payments Mr and Mrs G 
have made since 1 October 2022 up to the date of settlement to reflect the amended 
terms.
However, its not that simple; applying the 3.51% rate retrospectively to the main 
mortgage would also require BOS to charge an ERC of 1% of the balance at the date 
of the rate switch. If Im to order that to happen, I need to be persuaded that either 
BOS would have been willing to increase the overall debt still further by adding the 
ERC to the balance, or alternatively Mr and Mrs G could have paid it from their own 
resources, and would have been willing to do so.   
Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, Im not 
persuaded either or those two options were likely. The further advance Mr and Mrs G 
were taking out already put their total borrowing at the upper limit of what BOS was willing to lend; the initial amount they wanted to borrow was reduced by the online 
system, as being too high. That rules out BOS adding the ERC to the debt. 
So unless Mr and Mrs G had access to funds from elsewhere, paying an ERC would 
have meant taking away from the money they were committed to using for the 
extension. Its one thing to do that in the sure knowledge that the ERC will definitely 
be recouped; its quite another to take that risk in anticipation that the ERC might be 
recouped. Mr and Mrs G didnt know in August 2022 what they know now, and as Ive 
said, hindsight cant influence my decision. 
Putting all of the above together, Im persuaded the BOS advisor took steps to make 
sure Mr and Mrs G were aware that the existing mortgage and further advance would 
be separate, and gave them the opportunity to review the rate on the existing 
mortgage at the same time as taking out the further advance in the knowledge that 
doing so now would result in an ERC. 
The advisor could have done more to draw their attention to the possible benefits of 
switching rates on the existing mortgage and incurring an ERC. But overall Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs G would have made a different decision and be in a different 
financial position today if that had happened.
I gave the parties two weeks to comment on the provisional decision; both have done so. 
BOS accepted the provisional decision, saying it had treated my finding on the broader 
conversation the advisor could have had with Mr and Mrs G as a learning and development 
opportunity. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree; they reiterated most of the points theyd already 
made in their earlier submissions, but added that both of their sets of parents would have 
been willing to lend them the money to cover the ERC to switch rate on the main mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, Im not 
persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions. But I will address the new points 
Mr and Mrs G made in their submission of 5 December 2023.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we work with what is available, 
and we reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Gs concerns that a recording isnt available for a later conversation 
they had with BOS where they expressed their shock on realising the further advance was 
on different terms from the main mortgage. 
However, its for me to decide what is, or is likely to be, material to the outcome of a 
complaint. The conversation Mr and Mrs G refer to here happened after the event. So even if 
a recording of that conversation was available, it wouldnt carry the same weight that I 
attached to the recording that was available of the August 2022 conversation, during which 
Im satisfied BOS informed Mr and Mrs G correctly that the further advance would be 
separate and on different terms from the existing mortgage.
I did take into account the e-mail exchange between Mrs G and the advisor in 
September 2022. The reply from the advisor accurately answered the question Mrs G asked 
 which was about the content of the further advance offer, and therefore not the main mortgage  and didnt contradict anything already said in the August 2022 phone 
conversation.
Lastly, on the point about incurring an ERC in order to switch rates on the main mortgage, 
Mr and Mrs G have said they could have borrowed the money to pay it. But borrowing the 
money  even interest-free from family  is not the same as paying from ones own 
resources, which is what I said theyd need to be able to do in the provisional decision. 
Thats because, if BOS considered Mr and Mrs G to be at the upper limit of their borrowing 
capacity with it, its unlikely the business would have been willing to agree a change that 
required Mr and Mrs G to borrow elsewhere.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see how strongly Mr and Mrs G feel. Thats a natural, subjective reaction, 
and entirely understandable. 
Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively, sometimes taking a step back from the minutiae, focussing on the broader 
picture. Thats what Ive done. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman