DRN-3683691
The complaint
Mr L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account without notice. He would like his 
account reinstated or compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr L had an account with Monzo. Monzo carried out a review of Mr Ls account and following 
this in 16 March 2021, Mr L was notified his account would close with immediate effect.
Mr L told us he had to move his direct debits at short notice, and he was charged unpaid 
items fees. He was also unable to receive any refunds which were due to him.
Monzo said they were entitled to close the account with immediate notice under certain 
circumstances.
The funds in the account were returned to an account Mr L had nominated on 16 March 
2021.
Mr L complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint., She 
thought Monzo had provided information that satisfied her Monzo could close the account. 
But, she thought it should have given Mr L 60 days notice. She thought that would have 
given Mr L more time to rearrange his direct debits. But she saw no evidence of any fees he 
was charged. She thought Mr L should be paid £100 in compensation for the inconvenience 
of having to rearrange his direct debits at short notice.
Monzo disagreed they thought they had complied with their legal and regulatory obligations 
and were entitled to close the account with immediate effect.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ls account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Monzo were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ls account. 
Monzos terms and conditions allow it to close customers accounts with 60 days notice or 
immediately in some circumstances.
Mr L has pointed out that the closure of his account has caused him a lot of problems and 
stress. Im sorry whats happened has caused Mr L trouble and upset. But its generally for 
banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service 
wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer 
who has had their account closed.
Ive considered whether Monzo acted fairly in closing Mr Ls account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im not satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Monzo closed Mr Ls 
account without notice. For Monzo to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply 
their terms for immediate closure. Monzo has provided this service information in 
confidence. I have reviewed this information and Im satisfied that Monzo had legitimate 
concerns. However, I am not satisfied that Monzo acted fairly when it closed Mr Ls account 
with immediate effect. 
Impact
Ive gone on to look at the effect that the immediate closure had on Mr L.
Mr L has told us he had a number of direct debits on his account and he had to redirect all of 
these to a new account with another bank. This must have been stressful and frustrating for 
him.  Mr L has also told us he was charged unpaid item fees because of the immediate 
closure. He also said he was unable to receive refunds which were due to him. We asked 
Mr L to provide us with evidence of these fees and refunds. Mr L hasnt been able to do so.
So, although I dont doubt Mr L had a lot of inconvenience as a result of having to move his 
account at short notice. I havent seen anything to suggest he incurred financial losses as a 
result of the immediate closure. 
The investigator thought that £100 was a reasonable amount to compensate Mr L for having 
had his account closed with no notice instead of being given 60 days notice. I agree with 
that assessment. The amount is in line with those awarded in similar cases and I havent 
seen anything from Mr L that convinces me to increase this amount.
Putting things right
Monzo should pay Mr L £100 in compensation for the inconvenience of closing his account 
with no notice. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr L £100 compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman