DRN-2766119
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were given unsuitable mortgage advice by Responsible 
Life Limited (RLL) when they took out a lifetime equity release mortgage. Specifically, they 
say that it was never explained to them that if they took out the mortgage recommended by 
RLL, they would not be able to have a second charge on their property from another lender. 
Mr and Mrs W also say that they would have qualified for a standard mortgage with monthly 
repayments, and that this is what they should have been advised to take out, rather than an 
equity release mortgage.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs W would like the lender to allow them to exit the 
mortgage without paying any early repayment charge (ERC) and to reimburse the costs of 
taking out the equity release mortgage.
The complaint has been brought on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf by a representative, but I will 
refer to Mr and Mrs W throughout.
What happened
The details of the complaint have been set out in correspondence between Mr and Mrs W, 
their representative, RLL, and our investigator. Our decisions are published and so its 
important that I dont include in this decision anything that might identify Mr and Mrs W. For 
this reason, whilst Ive read everything the parties have provided, I wont set out the specific 
details of what happened.
Briefly, in November 2019 Mr and Mrs W were given advice by RLL, following which they 
applied for a lifetime equity release mortgage of £200,000 through a lender in the same 
corporate group as RLL, although a discrete business in its own right. The mortgage is at a 
fixed rate of 2.93%.
In common with this type of mortgage, no monthly repayments are due; instead, interest rolls 
up into the loan, which is repayable when the last surviving borrower dies or goes into a care 
home. If the loan is repaid within the first 15 years of the term, an ERC applies, although this 
can be waived if the mortgage is ported in full onto a new property that meets the lenders 
criteria. There is no ERC if, after five years, the borrowers move to a new home which does 
not meet the lenders criteria and have to repay their equity release mortgage as a result.
Partial repayments of up to 10% of the total cash advanced can be made each year without 
incurring an ERC, in up to 12 instalments of a minimum of £50 per instalment. So in Mr and 
Mrs Ws case, they are able to repay £20,000 per annum, and if they did this in 12 equal 
instalments, it would be £1,666.66 per month.
Before taking out the mortgage, Mr and Mrs W were given advice about it by their own 
solicitor. The lender required written confirmation from the solicitors that this had been done 
before the mortgage advance was released. I understand the mortgage completed in 
January 2020.
Two months later Mr W complained to RLL about the advice he and Mrs W had been given. 
The complaint arose because Mr W wanted to have a second charge on the property as 
security for business borrowing, but he discovered that this wasnt allowed by the lender. 
Mr W said this hadnt been explained to him at the time, that he frequently needs to have 
charges on the property and that his business cant function properly without this.
Mr W said that he and Mrs W were told by RLL that this was the only type of mortgage they 
qualified for, but had since been told by another financial adviser that this wasnt the case. 
Mr W also said that hed never received a copy of the suitability letter (a copy of which RLL 
provided to Mr W in its response to his complaint). 
Mr W conceded that the mortgage offer made specific reference to a prohibition on second 
charges, but says that this was never pointed out to him and he did not grasp that this was 
the case, thinking it referred only to additional borrowing from the equity release lender.
Mr W said that, given the mortgage was only two months old, that the lender ought to 
release them from it without any ERC.
RLL didnt uphold the complaint, explaining that the recommendation was based on the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs W about their circumstances, needs and wishes. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator 
looked at the complaint. He was satisfied that, based on what Mr and Mrs had told RLL, the 
recommendation was suitable. The investigator also noted that Mr and Mrs W had had 
advice from their own solicitors about the terms and conditions of the mortgage. In the 
circumstances, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Through 
their representative theyve reiterated the arguments about why they consider the advice to 
take out the mortgage was unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to note that RLL, although in the same corporate group as the lender, is a 
separate business. RLLs role was to provide mortgage advice; RLL has no influence on 
whether or not the lender applies the ERC in accordance with the terms of the contract 
entered into between it and Mr and Mrs W.
As I said above, Im not going to go into detail about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances. Their 
argument is that they had sufficient income to be able to service a standard mortgage, and 
so tying them into this type of equity release product was an unsuitable recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs W also say that their house was on the market at the time, which is another 
reason why a lifetime mortgage was unsuitable. 
However, Ive looked at the fact find that was completed on 19 November 2019. The 
information in this document was provided by Mr and Mrs W about their financial position, 
their wishes and their circumstances. This document is contemporaneous  that is, the 
information recorded in it was given directly by Mr and Mrs W at the time the document was 
compiled. This means that I can rely on it as an accurate record of what Mr and Mrs W told 
RLL about their situation at that time.The fact-find records that Mr and Mrs W had discussed equity release with their children, 
who supported their decision. There is no mention that Mr and Mrs W were selling their 
house. In fact, the opposite is stated  that they did not wish to move or release equity by 
downsizing. Im also satisfied that, based on the information provided about their income and 
outgoings, that Mr and Mrs W told RLL that they were spending all their disposable income 
on repairing and maintaining their substantial buy-to-let portfolio of properties. It is recorded 
that Mr and Mrs W didnt want the commitment of a standard mortgage but wanted flexibility 
to make ad hoc payments. Mr and Mrs W also said they intended to repay interest and 
capital each year (as stated above, they could repay up to £20,000 per annum). Given that a 
standard mortgage requires a committed monthly repayment  which is what Mr and Mrs W 
told RLL they did not want  Im satisfied that a standard mortgage would not have been a 
suitable recommendation for them.
It is stated in the Key Facts Illustration (KFI) (and the mortgage offer) that the property 
cannot be used as security for any other borrowing. 
Clause 7 of the KFI says (as part of a list of Risks  Important things you must 
consider):
Secured Borrowing - You will not be able to use the property as security for any 
other borrowing.
Mr W says it was never explained that the property couldnt be used as security for other 
borrowing. Mr W has also explained that he didnt grasp the significance of this prohibition 
and thought it related only to additional borrowing from the lender recommended by RLL. I 
think at the very least that the way the clause is worded ought to have caused Mr W to ask 
for further clarification. There is nothing in the point-of-sale documents to show that he did.
I also cant see in the fact find that Mr W told RLL that he intended to use the property as 
security for business borrowing. If he didnt specifically say so, I dont see how RLL could 
have been expected to know this. The fact find is quite detailed about other aspects of Mr 
and Mrs Ws circumstances, so I think its likely RLL would have recorded this if Mr W had 
mentioned it. But in any event, Im satisfied that it is clear from the KFI that securing other 
borrowing against the property isnt permitted. Mr and Mrs W signed the Customer 
Declaration on 25 November 2019 confirming they agreed with, and understood, the KFI. 
As part of the lenders requirements, Mr and Mrs W also had advice from their own solicitors, 
who would (or should) have gone through the mortgage offer and explained the nature and 
effect of the terms and conditions  including the prohibition on second charges. If their 
solicitors didnt explain this, Mr and Mrs W will need to take this up with the solicitors.
So although Mr W now says that he didnt grasp that he was prevented from adding a 
second charge on the property, if he misunderstood this I dont think it was as a result of any 
act or omission on the part of RLL. Mr and Mrs W were provided with written confirmation 
that the property could not be used as security for any other borrowing.
Overall, taking into account everything Mr and Mrs W told RLL, Im satisfied the advice and 
recommendation were suitable, based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs W. Im 
also satisfied that RLL did not mislead Mr and Mrs W about second charges on the property, 
or neglect to inform them that these were prohibited. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W were hoping for. But after considering 
everything they and RLL have told us, Im unable to find that RLL has done anything wrong.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman