DRN-1484883
The complaint
Miss L complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) havent properly 
compensated her for the consequential losses she incurred when a holiday was cancelled.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I was sorry to hear about Miss Ls cancelled holiday and I can understand it must have been 
very disappointing for her and her fiance. 
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss L made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid and some 
consequential losses through a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Miss L has referred to several costs she would like the business to refund as she says these 
were consequential losses. Ill consider each of them.
the clothing costs
Miss L has explained that she and her partner both purchased formal clothes to wear on 
their engagement celebration. Shes also explained that they cant be worn again as she and 
her partner no longer fit them, or ever will. 
I dont think the loss of the holiday prevented Miss L and her partner from celebrating their 
engagement or having photographs taken; although I do understand that wasnt to be at their 
chosen location. Those clothes could therefore be used again, and I dont think it would be 
reasonable to ask Capital One to compensate Miss L for the fact they no longer fit.
loss of income
I understand Miss L had taken unpaid leave and, as the shifts she left were filled, she was 
unable to return to work and mitigate her losses. Whilst I understand she would not have 
been able to spend that leave on the holiday she had booked I dont think it would be 
reasonable to suggest that these were costs directly associated with the loss of the holiday: 
the leave could still be used, and Miss L could therefore still benefit from it.
loss of enjoyment
If Miss L had travelled but her enjoyment of the holiday had been marred, then Capital One 
may have withheld some of the refund in respect of the holiday shed had but have refunded 
part of the cost in respect of the loss of enjoyment she had experienced. 
Here, however, the business have refunded all the cost and its not reasonable to ask them 
to pay more than what was laid out for a holiday that didnt take place.
So, Im not persuaded to tell Capital One to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman