DRN-2228551
The complaint
Ms M says Evergreen Finance Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat), 
irresponsibly lent to her. Ms M says MoneyBoat granted her loans which were unaffordable 
for her. She says her credit file and bank statements would have shown that she was 
financially in trouble and the lending shouldnt have been given. Ms M says she had multiple 
short-term loans and has fallen into arrears with her household bills as a result which has all 
had an impact on her mental health. 
What happened
This complaint is about seven short-term loans MoneyBoat provided to Ms M between 
January and December 2017. Ms Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken 
OutDate Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 26/01/2017 23/02/2017 Payday £200   £56.29
2 24/02/2017 23/03/2017 Payday £250   £69.89
3 20/06/2017 20/07/2017 Payday £250   £71.29
4 20/07/2017 04/08/2017 Payday £450 £316.30
5 01/09/2017 05/10/2017 Payday £200   £58.53
6 05/10/2017 17/11/2017 Payday £200   £61.97
7 15/12/2017 Outstanding Instalment £500 £138.90
*Loans one to six were to be repaid on a weekly basis  and loan seven was to be repaid 
over a six-month period.
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ms complaint and didnt think that any of the lending should have 
been given. They thought the information MoneyBoat had obtained about Ms Ms financial 
circumstances should have indicated that the lending was unsustainable for her. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicator. As the complaint remains unresolved it has 
been passed to me for decision in my role as ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in full. Ill explain why. 
MoneyBoat has told us about the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend to Ms M. It 
asked her about her employment details, income, outgoings and also obtained a credit 
report. It has been able to give us copies of the information it gathered. 
Ms M has told us she got into financial difficulty and was borrowing from other short-term 
lenders. And the credit report weve been given from the time loan one was being applied for 
shows this to be the case. It looks like there were four short-term loans taken within the 
previous two months and which were still running. The credit report also shows regular 
monthly payments to a debt collection agency.
The credit report shows the total balances stood at over £9,500 and there had been 18 
accounts opened within the previous six months. There was a significant number of 
searches on her account  40 in the previous twelve months. It also looked like Ms M was a 
regular user of short-term credit. All of this suggests that Ms M was having problems 
managing her money and I think if MoneyBoat had taken notice of the information it had 
already gathered about Ms M it should have concluded that it shouldnt lend to her. The 
lending was unsustainable for her. Ive also looked at the overall pattern of MoneyBoats lending history with Ms M, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which MoneyBoat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MoneyBoat should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan five. I say this because:
At this point MoneyBoat ought to have realised Ms M was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms M had taken out five loans within seven months. So 
MoneyBoat ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms M was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Ms Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms Ms first loan was for £200 and loan five was for the same amount (shed also 
borrowed higher amounts in the meantime).  At this point MoneyBoat ought to have 
known that Ms M was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income 
but to meet an ongoing need. 
Ms M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed MoneyBoat. Loan 
seven was taken out twelve months after Ms Ms first. And it was for the larger 
amount of £500 and was to be repaid over the longer-term agreement of six months. 
Ms M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to MoneyBoat 
over an extended period.
I think that Ms M lost out because MoneyBoat continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms M borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans one to seven and MoneyBoat should put things 
right.
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Ms Ms loan has been transferred to a third party 
MoneyBoat should buy the loan back if it can. If MoneyBoat cant buy the loan back, then it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms M which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms M as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Ms M having made overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Ms M. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Ms M. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in relation to loans 
one to four. 
The number of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans five to seven should be removed 
from Ms Ms credit file. MoneyBoat does not have to remove loan seven from Ms Ms 
credit file until this has been repaid, but any adverse information recorded about the 
loan should still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above Ms M still has an outstanding balance due, then MoneyBoat should 
try and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Ms M in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Ms M fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. Evergreen Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman