DRN-1729513
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is that TSB Bank plc didnt apply a refund that had been made to his credit 
card. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr K received a refund form a government department of £2,000. He provided 
evidence that this was processed on 29 May 2018. The credit wasnt applied to 
Mr Ks credit card at that time and Mr K raised his concerns with TSB Bank. At that 
time TSB Bank said it couldnt trace the refund amount and in its final response letter 
dated March 2019 it said it was the responsibility of the remitting bank to ensure 
payments were made successfully.
Statements of Mr Ks account have been provided and a refund was applied to 
Mr Ks credit card in December 2019. The information recorded about this refund - 
amount of £2,000 and date of transaction 29 May - suggest this was the refund Mr K 
had been expecting. Therefore, it appears that the underlying issue that gave rise to 
Mr Ks complaint has been resolved. 
However, the refund was applied in December 2019. This was around a year and a 
half later than the transaction was processed. TSB Bank hasnt provided any 
explanation regarding the delay. During this time Mr K has said that he was caused a 
great deal of trouble and stress. He said TSB were denying the refund had taken 
place and he had to spend time trying to locate his money. Given this I find that Mr K 
should receive compensation to reflect the extended delay and distress and 
inconvenience this caused.
Our investigator recommended that Mr K be refunded any interest and charges he 
had incurred during the period he was waiting for the refund and be paid £200 
compensation for the trouble an upset he had been caused. TSB Bank confirmed 
that Mr K didnt incur and interest or charges between May 2018 and December 2019 
on his credit card or bank account. It agreed to pay £200 compensation. 
Mr K doesnt think that £200 is enough compensation for the distress he was caused. 
While I can understand why he is upset at the time taken to locate the refund and 
that he had to spend time trying to understand what had happened to his money, I 
find that the £200 recommended is reasonable. I say this because I have not seen 
any evidence to show that the delay caused Mr K any financial hardship and while I 
can understand the stress it has caused, based on the correspondence I have seen 
and given the refund has now been applied, I find that £200 is a reasonable amount 
of compensation.
Based on the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should pay Mr K £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
was caused by the delay in his refund being applied to his credit card account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr K the 
compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman