DRN-3150031
The complaint
Miss C complains that Bamboo Limited, (BL), acted irresponsibly by accepting her as a 
guarantor on a guarantor loan taken out by the borrower. 
  
What happened
BL provided the borrower with a guarantor loan for £3,000 in December 2019. It was 
secured by way of a Guarantee and Indemnity Agreement and was to due be repaid by      
35 monthly instalments of £146.09 and a final instalment of £145.96. If payments were made 
on time, the total amount to be repaid over the 36 months loan term was £5,259.11 including 
interest. 
Miss C signed a Guarantee and Indemnity Agreement in respect of the loan. That meant 
that, should the borrower be unable or unwilling to make the required repayments, BL could 
seek repayment from Miss C. 
I dont intend to consider here whether it was reasonable for BL to give the loan to the 
borrower. The borrower isnt a party to this complaint, and I dont have enough information 
about the borrowers circumstances to conclude that further checks would have shown the 
loan to be unaffordable. I will only be considering whether it was reasonable for BL to accept 
Miss C as guarantor for the loan.  
Miss C said that she had no idea what she was doing with regard to the guarantee and BL 
didnt check the incomings and outgoings that came out of her bank monthly. So, BL didnt 
check if she could actually afford to be the guarantor on this loan. Miss C said she couldnt 
have afforded the loan repayments if called upon to pay them with her own financial 
commitments and the income she received each month. Miss C was part self-employed and 
part employed. There was no guarantee she could afford them. She also said that the loan 
was unaffordable for the borrower.
In its final response letter, BL said it believed that appropriate and proportionate checks were 
undertaken before approving Miss C as a guarantor and the loan was demonstrated to have 
been sustainably affordable for Miss C, should she be called upon to make any repayment. 
BL said that all of Miss Cs credit was up to date at the time of the loan application, she had 
good credit profiles, no adverse information such as unsatisfied defaults or county court 
judgements registered in her name and a good net monthly disposable income which 
showed that the loan was affordable for her, should she be called upon to make payments. 
In addition, BL said that it couldnt provide information about the borrower. BL also said that 
in a telephone call with Miss C, she said that she was aware of her responsibilities of being a 
guarantor and that she was happy to proceed with the application. 
BL reviewed the complaint at a later date. It said that it was satisfied that at the time of the 
loan application, Miss C and the borrower were able to comfortably afford the loan 
repayments. The information provided to it showed no indication that either party was 
struggling financially, and it believed that proportionate creditworthiness and affordability 
checks were undertaken before the loan was approved. But, taking into consideration the 
information Miss C provided it said it would be willing to remove her as a guarantor once the 
capital of the loan had been repaid. 
Miss C rejected BLs offer.
Our investigators view
The investigator didnt think that BL had made a fair lending decision. She said that as the 
loan was unaffordable for the borrower, BL shouldnt have accepted Miss C as the 
guarantor. 
BL didnt agree with the investigators assessment. It said that there was nothing on Miss Cs 
credit report to suggest that she was in financial difficulties. It said that the checks it carried 
out were proportionate. The credit report didnt give any indication that the loan was 
unaffordable for Miss C. The credit report showed that Miss C was running a well-maintained 
credit file. BL believed that the decision to approve Miss C as guarantor was a sound one 
and proportionate checks were carried out. BL asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
So, as the complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. 
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss C 
and to BL on 12 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id said that wed set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we considered to be good industry 
practice on our website. And Id used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint. 
Id considered the following questions: 
 Did BL obtain Miss Cs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the loan?
 Did BL carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C was in a 
position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did not? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
  Ultimately, did BL make a fair lending decision (as Miss C would be equally liable for this 
loan with the borrower).
Did BL obtain Miss Cs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the loan?
Id listened to a recording of a call between BL and Miss C. In that call, she confirmed she 
understood the risks and responsibilities of being a guarantor. Shed explained to BL this 
would mean that she would have to make the loan repayments if the borrower couldnt make 
them. Miss C said that shed had a discussion with the borrower and was satisfied that the 
borrower could make the loan repayments for the term of the loan. BL told Miss C that she 
could opt out of being a guarantor before the money was paid to the borrower. Miss C said 
that she wasnt under any pressure from the borrower and that she was happy to guarantee 
the loan. BL said that if the loan was approved, it would email Miss C the documents to sign 
and that she should read these carefully. Having listened to this telephone call, I couldnt 
reasonably say that the lender should have concluded Miss C was anything other than a 
willing guarantor.Id also seen the Guarantor and Indemnity Agreement signed by Miss C (by entering a 
password). From what Id seen and heard, I thought it was likely that Miss C did consent to 
becoming the loan guarantor and I thought it was likely that shed understood the 
consequences of being a guarantor. 
Did BL carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C was in a 
position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did not?
Id noted that BL had carried out a credit check on Miss C. I could see that this showed that 
Miss C had eight active accounts with a total balance amount of £4,836. I could see that 
most of this amount was a hire purchase loan and it appeared that Miss C was managing the 
repayments well. It also appeared that she was managing her other credit well. So, I didnt 
think BL should have had any concerns about Miss Cs finances from the results that it 
received from the credit check. 
Id noted that Miss Cs application form showed that she was single and had no dependents. 
It also said that she was employed full time and gave the name of her employer. But the 
form also showed that she had a net monthly salary of £1,700 and that she had £300 other 
monthly income. Id noted in the telephone call between the parties that BLs representative 
referred to Miss Cs employers name and referred to her receiving a monthly income of 
£2,000. But he didnt query the source and details of Miss Cs other monthly income. Miss C 
had since told this Service that her main job was part-time with varied hours and so her 
monthly income varied. Shed also said she had part-time self-employed work from several 
different sources which didnt have a guaranteed income. BL said that it had verified       
Miss Cs income with a credit reference agency. But I wasnt persuaded that credit reference 
agency data would have been able to verify Miss Cs income especially as her income was 
variable and from several different sources. 
Id also noted that BL had used statistical data to quantify Miss Cs monthly living costs of 
£327.70 in addition to Miss Cs declared rent of £485. It also incorporated information about 
her existing credit commitments from her credit file and calculated these to be £180.70. 
But Miss C was entering into a significant commitment with BL. She might have been 
required to make monthly repayments of around £146 for a period of three years. So, I 
thought BL should have done more here to reasonably assess whether or not Miss C would 
be able to meet the repayments over 36 months if required to do so. I dont think it was 
enough here to rely on statistical information about her living costs without reference to   
Miss Cs particular circumstances. And particularly in view of the variable nature of Miss Cs 
work, I didnt think it was fair here to rely on what shed said about her income without taking 
steps to verify this. So, I didnt think that the checks BL did were enough, and Id gone on to 
consider whether further information would more likely than not have shown Miss C would 
be able to make the loan payments in the event she had to.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Id looked at Miss Cs bank statements for three of her accounts from around the time of the 
loan and what shed told us about her financial situation, to see what better checks would 
have shown BL. I wasnt suggesting that these were the exact checks that BL should have 
carried out. But looking at Miss Cs bank statements was one way of achieving this although 
there were of course other methods BL could have used to establish this. 
I could see that BL had obtained copies of statements on two of Miss Cs current accounts 
retrospectively after the loan was made. It said the statements demonstrated that the loan 
was affordable for Miss C, and she was managing her accounts well. It noted that Miss C 
was spending £150 of her discretionary expenditure on gyms and fitness. BL said that there was no evidence of financial hardship such as missed payments or debt collection. She was 
only using her overdraft for two days in the three-month period on one of the accounts and 
not at all on the other. 
Id reviewed the bank statements for Miss Cs accounts that BL had obtained retrospectively. 
I could see that Miss Cs monthly main income was less than the amount of £1,700 shed 
declared to BL and varied in each of the three months before the loan application (around 
£1,300 in October 2019, £1,592 in November 2019 and £1,620 in December 2019). Miss C 
said that her main income varied because her working hours varied each month. So, her 
declared main income of £1,700 didnt seem to have been a guaranteed amount and I 
thought this ought to have concerned BL if it had made better checks. 
BL was also aware that Miss C received other monthly income. If it had asked more about 
this, it would have discovered that this was self-employed income. The fact that Miss C was 
self-employed meant that her income might have been sporadic or likely to fluctuate. Her 
declared income might not have been her available income and might not have been net of 
all tax, national insurance and business expenses. There was also an element of uncertainty 
 especially as Miss C was unlikely to receive any sick pay or holiday pay. So, I thought that 
BL should have taken steps to verify Miss Cs available income as carefully as possible as 
any error  even if slight - was likely to have a significant impact on her ability to repay this 
loan if called upon to do so.
Id asked the investigator to ask Miss C for more information about her self-employed work 
and income after tax, insurance and expenses. Miss C provided her tax return and I could 
see that her average monthly net self-employed income was around £98. I could also see 
that most of the expenditure on gyms and fitness that BL described as discretionary was in 
fact required for Miss Cs self-employed work and was set off against her self-employed 
income as expenses. I thought BL would have likely found this out if it had asked Miss C 
more about her self-employed work and income.
I could also see from the bank statements BL obtained retrospectively that Miss Cs living 
costs appeared to be significantly higher than the amount BL calculated from statistical data. 
Id not included in my calculation of Miss Cs living costs the amounts spent in connection 
with Miss Cs self-employed business which were set out in Miss Cs tax return. 
I thought that if BL had made better checks, it would more likely than not have discovered 
that when Miss Cs expenditure was deducted from her income, there wasnt really enough 
for her to be able to make the payments to this loan, without suffering adverse 
consequences or having to borrow further, in the event she had to. So, I thought BLs failure 
to properly look into Miss Cs circumstances meant that it didnt act fairly and reasonably 
towards Miss C when it accepted her as the guarantor for this loan. And, subject to any 
further information or evidence I received from the parties, I intended to uphold this 
complaint and say that BL should put things right as shown below. 
Putting things right  what BL needs to do
BL should:
 Refund to Miss C any payments she may have made to the loan. 
 Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded payments from the date they were paid 
(if they were) to the date of settlement*
 Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in relation to the loan
 Release Miss C from any obligations under the Guarantee and Indemnity Agreement and 
then terminate it.*HM Revenue & Customs requires BL to take off tax from this interest. BL must give Miss C 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Miss C responded to my provisional decision to say that she had nothing else to add.
We havent received a response from BL to my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Miss C and BL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold the 
complaint and require BL to take the steps and pay Miss C some compensation as set out 
above under the heading Putting things right  what BL needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Bamboo Limited to take the steps and pay Miss C some compensation as set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what BL needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman