DRN-2953261
The complaint
Mr L, a claims manager, has complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs H that Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined to pay their surveyors costs for a party wall notice 
after they made a flood claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H made a claim to RSA after their semi-detached home was flooded in 2019. 
RSA appointed a supplier to strip out and dry the property.
Mr and Mrs H asked Mr L to help them with the claim. At that time the flood-damaged plaster 
finishes hadnt been hacked off the walls in the property. Mr L said the plaster couldnt be 
removed without cutting into the party wall. So he asked RSA to pay the cost of serving a 
party wall notice on Mr and Mrs Hs neighbour.
RSA said the works were too minor for the party wall legislation to apply. It offered for its 
own contractor to carry out the strip out works and said if they caused any damage to the 
party wall, RSA would cover it as part of the claim.
Mr L went ahead and instructed a surveyor to serve the party wall notice on behalf of Mr and 
Mrs H. RSA didnt change its decision not to cover the cost of this. The neighbour didnt 
object to the works.
Mr L brought Mr and Mrs Hs complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. As Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, the 
matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The way I decide this complaint has to be in line with the rules governing this service. These 
rules say I must make my decision by reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the case. They go on to say that I need to take into account 
relevant:
 law and regulations;
 regulators rules guidance and standards; 
 codes of practice; and 
 (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Hs policy does cover surveyors fees if professional 
advice is needed in connection with the repairs. But the parties disagree on whether it was 
necessary to instruct a surveyor to serve a party wall notice.
Party wall legislation provides a framework for preventing and resolving disputes about party 
walls. A building owner proposing to start work covered by the legislation must give 
adjoining owners notice of their intention by serving a party wall notice. The adjoining 
owners can agree or disagree with what is proposed. Where they disagree, there is a 
mechanism in law for resolving disputes. 
Mr L has referred me to the case of Kelliher v Ash Estates Holding Ltd and another [2013] 
PLSCS 308. In that case the judge made a brief comment as to whether the removal of 
plaster was a notifiable work under the party wall legislation. He said one must look at how 
the work is done. He said plaster that could be removed with a putty knife or similar tool 
wasnt notifiable. But if it had to be removed with a drill that goes into even the very edge of 
the brickwork of the party wall, then that would be notifiable. 
Mr and Mrs Hs surveyor has confirmed that power tools would be needed to remove their 
plaster. I think thats likely to be the case. Mr L later told us the builder had in fact used 
power tools to remove the plaster.
Government guidance about party walls in England and Wales sets out what work you must 
tell your neighbour about. It says you must tell them if (amongst other things) you cut into an 
existing party wall. But it also says:
Some works on a party wall may be so minor that service of notice under the Act would be 
generally regarded as not necessary. Things like: 
 drilling into a party wall to fix plugs and screws for ordinary wall units or shelving 
 cutting into a party wall to add or replace recessed electric wiring and sockets 
 removing old plaster and replastering 
may all be too minor to require a notice under the Act.
However, the key point is whether your planned work might have any possible 
consequences for the structural strength and support functions of the party wall as a whole, 
or cause damage to the Adjoining Owner's side of the wall.
So the question I need to consider is whether the works were too minor to require 
notification. In Ls schedule of works the relevant work is described as;
Carefully take off wall plaster to a level of 1000mm above ground floor level. 
RSA has advised that most of the plaster was plasterboard which is usually fixed to the brick 
party wall using spots of adhesive. It said only a small section of the party wall had traditional 
plaster affixed directly onto it. It thought if the plaster were carefully removed, the brickwork 
of the party wall would either not need to be cut into or if so, only slightly.
Whether or not the party wall works are minor depends on the nature of the works which is a 
question of fact and degree. In this case only the lower half of the wall plaster was being 
removed and most of that was fixed on by spots of adhesive. So I think it was reasonable to 
assume that could probably be removed without affecting the structural strength and support 
functions of the party wall. I note that removal of plaster was having to be done on the other 
side of the wall as that property had been similarly damaged by the flood (and was also 
insured by RSA). That made it more likely in my opinion that work on Mr and Mrs Hs side 
wouldnt damage their neighbours side of the wall. I also note that the neighbour didnt serve 
a party wall notice on Mr and Mrs H.All in all, I dont think RSA treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly in saying that the removal of 
damaged plaster from their property was too minor to justify serving a party wall notice on 
their neighbour.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman