DRN-3269831
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Match the Cash Limited (Match the Cash) unfairly brought about 
an unaffordable guarantor loan for him. 
Background
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr S being 
provided with a guarantor loan in July 2019. The loan was for £3,500.00, had a 24-month 
term and an APR of 69.0%. This meant that the total amount of £5,777.52, including interest, 
fees and charges of £2,277.52, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £240.73.
One of our investigators looked at Mr S complaint and thought that Match the Cash unfairly 
approved Mr S loan. Match the Cash disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I consider it is fair and reasonable to expect Match 
the Cash to have carried out reasonable enquiries into Mr S circumstances to check that 
hed be able to make the payments to this loan, before bringing it about.
As I understand it, Match the Cash enquiries suggested that Mr S was employed and 
earning between £1,600.00 and £1,700.00 a month. This was verified with three months 
worth of Mr S bank transactions. I understand that Match the Cash also carried out a credit 
check which showed Mr S had 6 active accounts  one of which was to a guarantor loan 
provider. And that 17 separate searches, most likely as a result of applications for credit, 
were carried out in the 3 months leading to the application for this loan. Mr S also had a 
significant and extended history of using payday style loans. Finally, although Mr S was 
renting he was sharing the living costs with other family members.
Having considered these circumstances, I would have expected further enquiries and for 
further evidence on Mr S financial circumstances to have been requested in order for it to 
have been fair and reasonable for Match the Cash to have approved this loan. In my view, 
Match the Cash needed to understand why Mr S had such a history of payday style lending 
and appeared to be making as many applications for credit as he was despite his living 
expenses appearing to be relatively low. I think this was especially important given just how 
indebted Mr S was already and this loan would ensure over half of his income would be 
going to repayments to credit.
So I think that Match the Cash needed to obtain further information from Mr S to better 
understand his financial position before bringing about this loan for him. I think that had this 
information been requested, Match the Cash would more likely than not have discovered 
that Mr S was already struggling to keep up with his existing credit commitments. Indeed, he 
appears to have been borrowing from a payday style lender for an extended period in an 
attempt to try and keep up with his existing commitments. 
In these circumstances, I think that Match the Cash ought to have realised that Mr S was 
simply unlikely to be able make the payments to this loan without borrowing further, or 
experiencing financial difficulty. And as this is the case, I find that Match the Cashs failure to 
properly look into Mr S circumstances meant that it didnt act fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr S when it brought about this guarantor loan for him.   
As Mr S ended up paying interest and charges on a guarantor loan brought about by Match 
the Cash failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him, Im satisfied that Mr S lost out 
because of what Match the Cash did wrong. And I think that Match the Cash needs to put 
things right.   
Fair compensation  what I think that Match the Cash needs to do to put things right 
for Mr S
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Match the Cash to put 
things right for Mr S in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr S paid on this loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees and charges paid from the 
date they were paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to take off tax from this interest. Match 
the Cash must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Match the Cash Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman