DRN-2620636
The complaint
Mr B says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says the loans were hard to pay 
back and they shouldnt have been approved. 
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected loans Morses provided to Mr B between May 
2013 and May 2016.
loan 
numberdate taken amountweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 21/05/2013 £160 32 27/06/2014
2 27/06/2014 £100 34 13/05/2016
3 13/05/2016 £100 33 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Morses shouldnt have 
approved loan 3. This is because he thought the lending pattern itself was harmful. Morses 
agreed with the adjudicators opinion and agreed to reduce the amount Mr B owed on loan 3 
to reflect the compensation the adjudicator recommended.  
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Given the time that has passed since these loans were approved the information from the 
time of sale is sparse. But I understand the repayment for loan 1 wouldve been around £5 a 
week. I also think it would be the same for loan 2. 
There isnt a lot of detail from either side about Mr Bs income and expenditure but I can see 
that before approving loan 2 Morses recorded that Mr B had a weekly income of £350 and 
his weekly expenditure was £175. I havent seen any evidence that Mr Bs circumstances 
were materially different before loan 1 was approved. So, it wouldve been reasonable for 
Mutual to think that these loans were affordable for Mr B. 
I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr B mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Bs circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on 
the information it obtained.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think its likely the assessments Morses did for loans 1 and 
2 were proportionate. And so I think its decision to lend for loans 1 and 2 was reasonable. 
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about them. 
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 3 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself demonstrates that Mr B would struggle to repay this loan sustainably. 
I note Morses now agrees that it shouldnt have approved this loan and so I wont consider 
this further. How to calculate the compensation is in the section below. 
Putting things right
Morses shouldnt have given Mr B loan 3.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr B having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing for by loan 3 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Bs credit file. 
Morses does not have to remove loan 3 from Mr Bs credit file until it has been repaid, but 
Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman