DRN-3135694
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined part of their claim on their 
home insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O had home insurance with Fairmead. In January 2021 a car crashed into their 
house damaging their own car, some of the garden and the front wall of the house. They 
made a claim on their insurance. Fairmead accepted the claim and confirmed a settlement of 
£5,428.22, however later reduced this to £4,363.49 as it said garden cover wasnt included 
in their policy. 
Mr and Mrs O werent happy with this settlement amount and made a complaint. They said 
they thought the damage to the garden should be covered as the definition of buildings in the 
policy includes hedges and that was what was damaged. They also werent happy that only 
a patch repair of the rendering had been included, when the whole front would need to be re-
painted. And they said Fairmead had provided poor service throughout the claim. 
Fairmead responded to their complaint and accepted it had provided poor service. It offered 
£100 for loss of expectation due to the change in settlement amount offered and £150 
compensation to make up for the poor service. It also confirmed it had included the re-
painting of the whole front of the house in the settlement. However it maintained that the 
damage to the garden wouldnt be covered under the policy, so said the most recent 
settlement figure was correct. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree, they still thought the damage to their garden should be covered 
either under the definition of buildings or under the section relating to collisions as they said 
this had no exclusions. And they werent happy with the service theyd received. They 
brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said she didnt agree that the damage to the garden would fit the definition of buildings 
under the policy and this definition also applies to the section covering a vehicle collision. 
She also thought £150 was enough to compensate for the small delay in settling the claim 
And the £100 for loss of expectation was fair.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Settlement 
Mr and Mrs Os policy includes cover for buildings, which it defines as follows:
Your home, and its permanent fixtures and fittings including:
i) tennis courts, paved terraces, paths, drives, walls, fences, gates and hedges
They say that Fairmead have declined to cover damage to their hedge. Ive looked at the 
photos of the damage and I dont agree the plants that have been damaged would 
reasonably meet the definition of a hedge. 
While the policy doesnt define a hedge, I consider a reasonable definition to be a collection 
of closely grown shrubs that make a row or border. The plants that have been damaged in 
Mr and Mrs Os garden are separate, different and dont form a row. Nor could they be 
defined as shrubs. So I dont think this meets a reasonable definition of a hedge. As the 
policy only covers buildings and not their garden, I think its reasonable that Fairmead hasnt 
covered the damage to their plants as part of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs O also say that there is a specific section that covers collisions, which has no 
exclusions, so Fairmead should offer cover for their garden under that section.
Ive considered this but I dont agree. The collision cover is under the buildings section of the 
policy. And begins: The buildings are insured against loss or damage caused by..: So the 
definition of buildings applies to all areas outlined in this section. Therefore while the 
collision cover has no exclusions, it applies solely to what is defined as buildings. And as Ive 
laid out, I dont think this applies to the damage to Mr and Mrs Os garden. 
I therefore dont think Fairmead has acted unreasonably or unfairly by declining to cover 
damage to Mr and Mrs Os garden.
Service
Mr and Mrs O have also raised concerns about the service theyve received and delays to 
the claim settlement. 
I agree that it was poor service for Fairmead to confirm a settlement in error, only to reduce 
the amount a few days later. And I know this would have caused some disappointment and 
distress for Mr and Mrs O as they were led to believe they would receive a greater amount 
than they did. Fairmead has offered £100 for the loss of expectation and I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont ask it to do anything more.
Ive also considered how Fairmead handled the claim and if there were any delays that could 
have been avoided. The claim was made on 4 January, the correct settlement was 
confirmed on 19 January and paid on 29 January. I can see there were a couple of 
occasions where the service provided could have been better. Fairmead didnt provide 
information in the timescales it said it would, and call backs were promised and not made. 
However Im satisfied that the claim was dealt with and settled in a reasonable time frame so 
I dont think this delayed the claim settlement unreasonably. Further, Fairmead has offered 
£150 compensation to make up for poor service. This is more than I would have 
recommended if it hadnt. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman