DRN-3678327
The complaint
Mrs B has complained on behalf of the business B. HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed Bs 
bank account held with it following a safeguarding process which Mrs B on behalf of B feels 
is unfair.
What happened
As part of a safeguarding review HSBC wrote to the details it had on file for B on 6 July 
2021. The letter explained that from time to time it asks its customers to confirm, update or 
give us new information.
The letter went on to ask the recipient to complete the enclosed form and return it to HSBC 
in the envelope provided. A onetime access code would then be provided to access the 
online safeguarding form.  The letter also provided a number to call so the recipient could be 
guided through the process.
In addition to the above the letter warned that although it was rare the result of the review 
could be that banking services would no longer be provided.
HSBC sent the same letter to the address details it held on 18 August 2021, 8 September 
2021 and 6 October 2021.
As no response was received HSBC sent a further letter on 10 November 2021 to the 
address it held explaining the account would close on 18 January 2022.
Mrs B had completed a change of address form that was signed 27 October 2021 and 
received by HSBC on 30 October 2021. The change was processed on 11 November 2021.
Mrs B on behalf of B is unhappy about the process and that the account was closed. Mrs B 
is also unhappy that the safeguarding process is based online, and this would be limiting for 
certain people. 
Our Investigator considered Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mrs B on 
behalf of B disagreed this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has explained that its safeguarding process is designed to prevent against fraud to 
keep its customer safe. HSBC is entitled to have a process like this and to decide how to 
operate it. So what Ive considered is whether it did so fairly in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
The first four safeguarding letters HSBC sent were to the details it had on file that had not 
been changed. I dont think its unreasonable that HSBC used the address it had on file to 
send this correspondence to as that was what it held for B at the time and it wasnt aware 
that anything had changed.
Mrs B has told us that she was still in touch with the previous mandate holder over this time 
so I think its likely she would have been aware of the letters. But in any event, as Ive said 
above, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong sending these letters to the address that it did.
HSBC then sent a warning letter on 10 November 2021 stating the account would be closed. 
As the address details had still not been updated this letter was also sent correctly.
HSBC is entitled to close an account as per the terms and conditions if it is unable to confirm 
a customers details. So, I think it was reasonable to send this letter having had no response 
from B over the previous three months.
I appreciate this letter didnt go to the new address, but HSBC has explained that this type of 
change request takes some time to complete. Considering HSBC received the request to 
change the address on 30 October 2021 and the change was made on 11 November 2021 I 
think the time this took was reasonable. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest 
HSBC should have sent this letter to the new address as the details had not been updated 
when the letter was sent.
Its unfortunate that Bs account was closed but from the information available to me I dont 
think HSBC acted unreasonably in the actions it took to follow its safeguarding process. It 
was Bs responsibility to make sure updates to the account details were made in a timely 
manner.
I can also see Mrs Bs point that an online process would not have suited all customers, 
especially those less confident using computers. But the safeguarding process started with 
letters being sent to the address HSBC held on file for B and the letter included a number 
that could be called to offer support with the process. I think this is reasonable and I havent 
seen anything to suggest this number was called to request assistance or explain that an 
online process would be difficult for B.
I think HSBC has followed a fair process and I wont be asking it to take any action to resolve 
Bs complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B on behalf of 
B to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman