DRN-4077981
The complaint
Mr W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) failed to remove 
adverse markers on his credit file following a fraud on his account, affecting his ability to 
secure a mortgage at a preferential interest rate.
What happened
Mr W says in August 2021 his credit card account was subject to a fraudulent transaction 
and at that time the matter was dealt with by Barclays and as far as he was aware the matter 
had been resolved. 
Mr W says when he considered applying for a re-mortgage on a buy to let property (BTL) he 
owned in April 2022, he was informed by his mortgage brokers to check his credit file before 
submitting an application. Mr W says when he checked his credit file, it showed he had three 
late payment markers against his Barclays credit card account, which shouldnt have been 
there as this related to the fraudulent activity on his credit card account, that Barclays told 
him it had dealt with in 2021.
Mr W says on taking professional advice from two mortgage brokers he was advised to have 
these credit markers removed before applying as it was likely his application would be 
declined. Mr W says after a series of telephone conversations with Barclays and having 
been poorly advised to speak to the credit agencies himself by Barclays  it after much delay 
eventually removed the markers from his credit file in July 2022. 
Mr W says by this time the mortgage market had moved on and the interest rate he was 
looking to secure back in April 2022 had increased substantially resulting in increased 
interest costs. Mr W says although Barclays have admitted it failed to remove the markers 
on his credit file when it should have and increased its offer of compensation from £100 to 
£750, this doesnt go anywhere near far enough to cover the extra costs over the coming 
years and the stress he has experienced and is looking for substantial compensation to 
cover this. 
Barclays says it accepts it should have removed the adverse credit markers much sooner 
than it did and can see the service it provided during the time Mr W raised the issue fell 
short. Barclays feel that the level of compensation it has offered Mr W is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Mr W took the decision to re-mortgage the BTL when he did, and Barclays 
were not involved in that decision. The investigator says while Mr W intended to apply for a 
re-mortgage  in April 2022, no mortgage application was ever made at that time, so the 
investigator couldnt speculate as to the outcome of any application that might have been 
made. 
The investigator felt Barclays had taken remedial actions to put matters right and had 
corrected Mr Ws credit file, albeit later than would be expected. The investigator says 
Barclays apologised for that mistake and offered Mr W £750 by way of compensation for 
that, which the investigator felt was fair in the circumstances, as it wasnt the role of this 
service to penalise businesses when mistakes like this occur. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr W to learn he had adverse entries on 
his credit file when he was looking to apply for a re-mortgage of his BTL, especially given 
that Barclays should have dealt with the credit card fraud issues, relating to this back in 
August 2021.
When looking at this complaint as Barclays have admitted it made mistakes in not dealing 
with the adverse credit file entries when it should have, I will consider if its offer of 
compensation of £750 is sufficient here. 
Mr W has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of events here and 
while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point he has made as I dont 
feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I 
havent considered everything hes said  I have. But its just that I dont need to comment 
on each individual point here in order to reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable. 
The background to this complaint is well documented and known to both parties so I see no 
reason to reiterate everything thats been said before, other than to say Mr Ws complaint 
centres around the fact because Barclays failed to remove adverse markers on his credit file 
in a timely manner, this has meant him missing out on preferential mortgage interest rates 
and resulted in other direct expenses and costs.
I understand Mr W feels Barclays failure to remove the adverse markers on his credit file 
was the sole reason why he wasnt able to secure the re-mortgage of his BTL, at the interest 
rate he was looking to secure and the knock-on financial effects that caused, but Im not fully 
persuaded by his argument. I say this because although theres no question Barclays were 
at fault for not removing the markers on his credit file back in August 2021, I cant say with 
any certainty that even if those markers had been removed, Mr B would have definitely 
secured the re-mortgage at the rate of interest and terms he refers to, as no mortgage 
application was ever made. 
While I accept this was the advice given to him by more than one financial broker, Barclays 
played no part in that, or his decision to apply for the re-mortgage when he did at a higher 
rate than he hoped he would have secured previously. Here, no mortgage application was 
submitted for approval so without this, given that mortgage decisions are decided on various 
different factors, including credit scores for example, Ive no way of knowing for certain this 
would have been approved on the terms in which Mr W sets out in his complaint. 
Thats not to say Barclays havent made mistakes here it has, but it has accepted that, 
apologised, put matters right, and offered Mr W £750 by way of apology and £30 towards associated costs. As the investigator has pointed out, given I cant conclusively say Mr W 
would have definitely secured the re-mortgage for the reasons I have already explained, its 
not my role to penalise businesses when mistakes are made but to ensure it apologises, 
corrects its mistake, and offers appropriate compensation for that  Im satisfied Barclays did 
that here. 
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here and I will leave it with Mr B to contact Barclays if he now wishes to accept its offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman