DRN-2898310
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that the windscreen repair company authorised by Admiral
Insurance Company Limited under their motor policy caused damage to their car.
For ease of reference I shall merely refer to Mr S throughout my decision. I shall also call the
windscreen repair company WRC.
  
What happened
The car had a cracked windscreen which WRC repaired under Mr S motor policy with
Admiral on 17 May 2019.
Around early October 2019 Mr S noticed the airbag light came on and the windscreen wipers
wouldnt work. His local garage said the SZL unit was at fault and needed to be replaced. Mr
S bought a second one as he couldnt afford a new one at £350. It wasnt a like for like one,
but Mr S said after it was fitted everything worked fine.
On 25 November 2019, Mr S saw his windscreen was leaking. WRC repaired it the next day
confirming there was a 5mm gap due to the incorrect fitting of the windscreen in May
2019.WCR told Mr S to get a repair estimate of the water damage. He took the car to a
manufacturers main dealer who ultimately took a video showing the water damage and
provided an estimate for the repair for over £5,000.
WCR then inspected the car after it had been stripped down and decided given it was dry,
no damage had been caused and they werent responsible for this. It also decided from a
dye test that water was getting in the door of the car.
Mr S was very unhappy and complained ultimately to Admiral, who said as WRC were a
separate company and had issued a final response letter that it was nothing to do with them.
Mr S then brought his complaint to us. The investigator upheld it. Admiral didnt agree so Mr
S complaint was passed to me decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 June 2021 and I said the following: 
Im intending to uphold this complaint for additional reasons to those of the
adjudicator. Ill now explain why.
First, the only method available to Mr S in order to get his windscreen repaired 
without a cost
to him of the full cost of replacing a windscreen, was to access WRC through his 
motor policy provided by Admiral. Its Admiral who chose the repair company to do 
this. Therefore, its Admiral who is ultimately responsible to Mr S for the service 
provided by WRC. Mr S only has a contract with Admiral for which he pays a 
premium. He has no contract with WRC.
Admiral initially refused to deal with Mr Ss complaint persistently referring him to 
WRC ignoring the fact it was ultimately responsible given its policy with Mr S. I 
consider that Admiral were needlessly less than helpful to Mr S given his issues with 
WRC which caused him a significant level of unnecessary trouble and upset, for 
which I consider Admiral should now pay Mr S the sum of £250 compensation.
Turning now to the sequence of events. Because the cars electrics started to go 
wrong, on the advice of his local garage, Mr S said he changed the SLZ unit in 
October. He bought a second one because he said he couldnt afford a new one. It 
seemed to fix the electrics but from the evidence from the manufacturers main 
dealer, it does seem it threw up lots of ECU error codes when they plugged his car in 
subsequently. However, Ive seen no evidence to show that much turns on this, as 
regards the damage from the leaking windscreen for which Mr S is claiming. Other 
than its more than likely given the leak, this unit was initially damaged by the water 
ingress in any event. Hence needing replacement. However, I can see that it 
confused matters especially for Admiral. But such a diagnostic test as this is not 
going to ascertain much water damage quite obviously.
The video from manufacturers main dealer showing the water damage to Mr S car is 
very clear in my view and very persuasive. It shows how the water entered in through 
the windscreen and flowed or dripped down the rear-view mirror hitting the main 
instrument console causing water damage to that. It also shows how wet the carpets 
were. This is also confirmed by the dealers email dated 28 November 2019.
Im not persuaded by the subsequent inspection undertaken by WRC since it was 
several days later where the car would obviously have had the chance to dry out 
substantially. Further given the video evidence most especially concerning the wet 
central console, (which neither Admiral nor WRC have taken on board or dealt with), 
I dont consider the dye tests on the door frame are at all relevant, given we already 
know the central console was water damaged and that could not have originated 
some from any issue concerning the door. Therefore, I consider Admiral should now 
repair Mr Ss car given the quote obtained at the time from the manufacturers main 
dealer. It should also seek to ascertain and deal with any storage charges which the 
main dealer might charge given I understand the car is still with them.
Mr S also suffered a loss of use of his car once WRC took back the hire car and he 
had to buy another car at a time when Mr S said he couldnt afford it, but he needed 
a car for his work. In that regard I consider Mr S went to some considerable effort in 
mitigating his loss. Therefore, I consider its reasonable that Admiral should refund 
the interest on the finance agreement for his new car as compensation for his loss of 
use.
Mr S responded explaining about the storage charges and that he had mitigated his loss 
further and had the main dealer return his car to him. So, the storage charges were reduced 
from a potential of 566 days at £20 per day to 302 days at £20 per day, which amounts to 
£6,040.00. He detailed that the total amount of interest on his loan agreement for the car is 
£1,306.40. Mr S was also concerned that given the length of time the cars tyres might have 
perished, the battery was undoubtedly flat, and petrol had been stagnating in the tank. He 
was also concerned that he had paid his premium November 2020 and paid road until he 
had the SORN in September 2020 when his car was delivered back to him.
Admiral responded disputing my thoughts that it was possible the water ingress affected the 
electrics. It maintained the manufacturers main dealer confirmed this. It was concerned the 
replacement of the SZL unit wasnt due to any water ingress.I reconsidered the matter again and noted that it was very possible that just the repair costs 
(leaving aside the storage charges) were possibly more than Mr S car was worth. And 
considering the most Admiral is under a duty to pay in repairing the car is the market value, 
we asked Admiral to consider the matter again by email, having explained the situation to Mr 
S.
Admiral maintained that the manufacturer main dealer gave conflicting information about the 
cause of the damage and that this dealer said the damage wasnt caused by the water 
ingress. And that the wrong SZL unit had been fitted.
Mr S said that if it was possible, he would like to retain the salvage of the car.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I maintain that the manufacturer main dealers evidence was clear 
and not conflicting. 
This dealer made it clear previously as I advised in my provisional decision above in its email 
of 28 November 2019 to include the video evidence. Further it emailed Mr S on 6 December 
2019 explaining that WRC didnt agree any damage had been caused. It said the following to 
Mr S: 
I have replied and argued that I do not agree with their findings. I have explained that 
they had the leak repaired before the vehicle was diagnosed which prevented it from 
being tested. They also sent their engineers out days after the vehicle has been 
stripped during which time it had been kept in a heated workshop, so allowed units to 
dry out. [Name] has not yet responded to my last email. I will try and call again once I 
have a response.
I dont consider this manufacturers main dealer gave conflicting evidence at all. Its video is 
clear on showing the extensive water ingress. As I also explained in my provisional decision, 
I dont think much turns on the SZL unit and its issues. 
So, it remains my view that Admiral are responsible for the repair of Mr Ss car. However, as 
it seems likely that the repairs costs exceed the market value of the car, I consider it more 
reasonable should Admiral wish (following its valuation of Mr Ss car as per the details given 
by the investigator to Admiral of 21 July 2021 for the avoidance of any further factual 
confusion) to pay Mr S the market value of his car subject to Mr Ss desire to retain the 
salvage. 
It remains that Mr S considerably reduced the extent of the storage charges for the benefit of 
Admiral. And it remains my view that Admiral should discharge Mr Ss liability to pay these 
storage charges charged to him by the manufacturers main dealer and negotiate direct itself 
with this dealer to pay these storage charges which apparently arent payable until the 
conclusion of this complaint by us. Admiral says it was unaware storage charges were 
accumulating. However, I consider these are properly incurred as a result of this claim for 
which I consider Admiral is responsible, and therefore it follows these storage charges are 
also Admirals responsibility.
I also consider Admiral should refund Mr S the interest he was charged on the finance 
agreement for his new car which again considerably mitigated his losses in the sun detailed 
by Mr S (subject to proof) of £1,360.40. Plus, I remain of the view Admiral should pay Mr S the sum of £250 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it caused him.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr S £250 compensation.
Refund Mr S the interest payments on his new car in the sum of £1,360.40 subject to 
proof.
Take over liability of the storage costs charged by the manufacturers main dealer to 
Mr S and negotiate its own payment of the same.
Repair Mr S car or pay him the market value whichever is the lesser, subject to the 
valuation being undertaken in accordance with the instructions given by the 
investigator to Admiral on 21 July 2021, allowing Mr S to retain the salvage if he 
wishes. 
Should the market value of the car be paid to Mr S, interest of 8% simple should be 
paid from 25 November 2019 to the date Admiral pays the market value. If income 
tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided to Mr S for HMRC purposes. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman