The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained to us about two mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policies they bought from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), then trading as Cheltenham 
& Gloucester, in February and May 2001. They say the policies were mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D bought the first policy at the same time as they took out a mortgage with 
Lloyds. They then took out the second policy to go with some additional borrowing. 
Only Mr D was covered by each of the policies. The policies included cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs D say they didnt know theyd bought the policies. They also say they may have 
taken out the cover so that they would be accepted for the mortgage lending and extra 
borrowing they needed. Mr D also says had he known about the policies, he would have 
made a claim after he was made redundant. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policies had been mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs D disagree, 
their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs D say they bought each of the policies at meetings with Lloyds and that Lloyds 
made a recommendation that they should buy them. Lloyds has confirmed that for each of 
the sales it made a recommendation that Mr and Mrs D buy the policies. That means it had 
the responsibility for ensuring that the policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds situation and 
that the information it provided about them was clear enough. 
In reaching my decision Ive relied on the paperwork thats available plus what I already 
know about how Lloyds sales happened at the time. Ive also kept in mind that Mr and Mrs D 
would have had the opportunity to review the paperwork that Lloyds had prepared at each 
meeting before signing it. 
DRN-1932275When Mr and Mrs D applied for their mortgage in February 2001, I see they ticked a box to 
show they were interested in taking out MPPI. By doing so, they were also confirming that 
theyd filled out a separate MPPI proposal form. They also ticked a box saying the same 
thing when they applied for their further borrowing in May 2001. Ive also had a look at the 
MPPI proposal forms that Mr and Mrs D signed when they applied for the MPPI alongside 
their borrowing. 
So it seems to me that for each of the MPPI sales Mr and Mrs D were aware they were 
making a specific decision about purchasing cover go with their borrowing. 
Lastly, for both MPPI sales, Ive seen that Mr and Mrs D gave Lloyds their bank account 
details so that the MPPI premiums  which were separate to their mortgage payments  
could be taken. Thats something else that makes me think they realised they were making a 
decision to buy each of the policies.
I think I should also say Ive seen that Mr D put in claims against his MPPI cover for relating 
to unemployment between late 2001 and early 2002 and then for a period from mid to late 
2003. However, neither claim was completed. But this suggests to me that Mr and Mrs D 
were aware theyd bought the MPPI cover.
Both sales took place almost 20 years ago, and I have to consider the possibility that Mr and 
Mrs D may not remember exactly what went on during each of the sales  nor would I expect 
them to. So without any further evidence to support what theyve told me, I think its likely 
that Mr and Mrs D decided to buy each of these policies to help protect their mortgage 
repayments. I think they did so because they thought the cover would be useful to them. And 
from what Ive seen about these sales, there simply isnt enough for me to make a finding 
that they were put under pressure to buy the cover.
Ive next looked at whether Mr D  as the person covered - was disadvantaged by any of the 
conditions or limitations of the policies. The information Ive seen makes me think that he 
was eligible for the cover, in good health and in permanent employment. So I think he 
wouldve been able to make a successful claim on these policies if hed needed to.
Each of the policies paid out for up to 12 months if Mr D made a successful claim. Mr D told 
us he was entitled to some benefits from his employer if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness. Mr D says his benefits wouldve covered him for 6 months at full pay 
followed by a further 3 months at 75% pay and then a further 3 months at 50% pay. Each of 
these policies wouldve paid out alongside and for longer than these employer benefits. The 
policies would also have paid out if Mr D had lost his job. So I think on balance that Mr and 
Mrs D had had a use for the policies and that they were suitable for their situation. 
Ive also kept in mind that each of these policies wouldve paid out alongside any other 
resources that they could access, such as the savings Mr and Mrs D have told us about. 
Having MPPI might well have avoided the need to dig into these savings, or other financial 
resources that Mr and Mrs D might have had. So overall, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D 
chose to buy each of these policies for the protection and reassurance that it gave them  
even though they dont now remember doing so.
From the paperwork Ive seen it looks as if Mr and Mrs D ought to have been provided with 
details of the cost of each policy at around the time of each sale  being around £21 per 
month for the first policy and £28 per month for the second policy. Ive no way of knowing 
that they received these details, and that they read them if they did. But I havent seen 
anything to make me think that Mr and Mrs D might have had problems paying for the cover. I can also see its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way information 
was given to Mr and Mrs D about these polices - for instance, in relation to telling them about 
the cost of each policy. But, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr and Mrs D would 
still have decided to buy them if theyd been better advised and informed.
Overall, whilst Ive looked at each of these sales carefully, Im not able to make a finding that 
any of these policies were mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D about this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about these MPPI 
sales being mis-sold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19August2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman