DRN-3942287
The complaint
Ms P complains that settlement for a purchase of an exchange traded fund in her stocks and 
shares ISA held with InvestEngine (UK) Limited was delayed.
She wants compensation for the delayed settlement and for the distress and inconvenience 
she was caused.
What happened
Ms P opened a stocks and shares ISA with InvestEngine. On 29 September 2022, she 
placed an order to buy some units in an exchange traded fund (EFT). She understood the 
trade was placed for T+2 settlement. The cost was debited from her ISA account, but she 
wasnt credited with the EFT. When she contacted InvestEngine, it told her settlement delays 
were a risk of investment and that it was chasing its broker about the trade but couldnt 
provide her with an expected settlement date. The trade settled on 29 November.
Ms P says she couldnt use the money for anything else, and she couldnt sell the EFT until it 
settled. This was the first time she had traded with InvestEngine, and she was worried that 
things had gone wrong. She says she suffered mental distress which led to physical pain.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
InvestEngine had done anything wrong, that its risk disclosure document explained there 
was a risk of delayed settlement, and that Ms P hadnt incurred a financial loss because the 
trade was settled at the execution price.
Ms P didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
She wasnt provided with the risk disclosure document when she traded, so it cant be 
relied on as evidence and doesnt form part of her contract.
InvestEngine is required to settle promptly, and it didnt.
She couldnt sell the EFT while she was waiting for settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
When Ms P placed a purchase order for an EFT, InvestEngine was obliged under the 
Financial Conduct Authority rules to:
take all sufficient steps to obtainthe best possible result. taking into account. price, 
costs, speed, likelihood of execution and settlement, size, nature or any other consideration 
relevant to the execution of an order.
This requirement is reflected in InvestEngines order execution policy, which forms part of its 
terms and conditions.
In seeking to obtain best execution, InvestEngine uses a panel of retail service providers 
(RSPs) who deal on the market, or direct with a counterparty. Im satisfied that the RSP 
InvestEngine chose for Ms Ps trade is a key and reliable market participant with a track 
record of trade settlement.
Whilst I cant say for certain, its possible InvestEngine could have obtained quicker 
settlement for Ms Ps trade had it chosen to use a different RSP. But settlement was only 
one element to be considered when choosing which RSP to use. An alternative RSP may 
not have been able to provide the best price for Ms P and it may not have been able to deal 
as quickly. 
In any event, InvestEngine agreed settlement as T+2 with the RSP and I dont find it could 
reasonably have been aware that settlement was going to be delayed when it placed the 
trade. 
InvestEngine has provided evidence to show that it did contact the RSP to chase settlement 
on several occasions. Unfortunately the RSP wasnt always responsive and didnt give a 
reason for the delay or provide a likely revised settlement date. Whilst it may have been 
reassuring for Ms P to know that InvestEngine was on top of the issue, it didnt have any firm 
information to provide to her about when the trade would be settled.
I understand why Ms P was so concerned about the delayed settlement, particularly as this 
was the first trade shed placed with InvestEngine. And Im sorry she became ill because of 
the worry. But Im satisfied that InvestEngine fulfilled its best execution obligations and that it 
was in contact with the RSP to try to obtain settlement as soon as possible.
Ms P says she wasnt able to sell the EFT until the trade settled. But Ive not seen evidence 
to persuade me that Ms P wanted to sell the EFT during this period. I can see that the price 
of the EFT increased and continued to increase after 29 November 2022 when the trade had 
settled. So, if Ms P had wanted to sell the EFT, I would have expected her to have done so 
once the purchase had settled, given that the price after settlement was higher than it had 
been during the period she was waiting for settlement.
Im satisfied that InvestEngine had warned Ms P about the risk of delayed settlement. Its 
order execution policy says that:
there is a moderate risk that settlement of transactions are delayed as a result of external 
factors, such as market liquidity, RSP bandwidth or other unforeseen operational issues. We 
will seek where possible to settle T+2, but this may not always be possible, and settlement 
may take longer. 
Its Risk Disclosure statement repeats this, and adds, Late settlement can occur with any 
trade and is likely to be outside of InvestEngines control. I think its more likely than not that 
Ms P was presented with these documents before she agreed to open an account with 
InvestEngine. I say this because both documents form part of InvestEngines terms and 
conditions, and Ms P would have had to agree to those before she opened an account. The 
warnings about settlement delay werent particularly prominent and its likely Ms P may have 
skipped over these when she read the terms. But, overall, the risk of delayed settlement isnt high so I wouldnt expect InvestEngine to have highlighted this particular risk above any 
others.
Overall, Im satisfied that InvestEngine provided best execution for Ms Ps trade and that the 
delayed settlement was outside of its control.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman