DRN-4084392
The complaint
F represented by Ms L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave wrong 
information about being able to reimburse a payment it had made. It says the information 
resulted in a financial loss, which NatWest should cover. 
While this is Fs complaint (a limited company), for ease of read I will mostly refer to Ms L (its 
director and representative) in my decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint, inviting both parties to provide any further 
evidence and comments by 13 April 2023. I set out a copy of my provisional decision below. 
What happened
F in the course of its business paid £6,552.76 by bank transfer to a company to provide and 
deliver a kitchen for a client. I shall refer to the other company as M.
The kitchen wasnt delivered so Ms L contacted M. When M didnt respond, Ms L contacted 
Ms source supplier direct who said M had gone into administration.
Ms L contacted her insurers to see if it could assist in resolving the situation, but it couldnt. 
So, she contacted NatWest initially via its webchat facility. In the webchat Ms L said that she 
wanted to reverse the payment because goods hadnt been delivered and she understood M 
may have gone into administration. In the webchat NatWest said it would look to get the 
funds returned but to instigate that she would need to contact its scams department.
Ms L spoke with an advisor in the scams team who agreed the bank could raise a claim for 
recovery of the funds, if Ms L could get confirmation from M that it wouldnt be providing the 
goods or a refund. 
M confirmed it had gone into administration and couldnt fulfil the order or give a refund. Ms 
L relayed this to NatWest, however, another advisor said that it couldnt raise a claim 
because this wasnt as a case where a scam had occurred  it was a legal/contractual 
matter which would need to be taken up with Trading Standards.
Ms L complained - she said this wasnt what the first advisor had told her. She explained 
shed been told a claim could be raised to recover the funds. And so, based on this shed 
arranged payment to another business for a further sum of around £6,500 for a replacement 
kitchen. She felt NatWest had a responsibility to honour what it had originally said, because 
theyd specifically relied on assurances when making another payment. 
NatWest investigated the complaint. It accepted it had made a mistake in saying it could 
raise a claim when it couldnt. It paid £50 compensation by way of apology for not dealing 
with a request for information in connection with the complaint, but it didnt think it had given 
a guarantee that it could refund the payment.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but he didnt uphold it. In summary, he 
said although incorrect information had been given about raising a claim, the advisor in the 
first call never confirmed or guaranteed that the funds would be refunded. Ms L disagreed. 
She said the advisor was in possession of all the facts, checked everything with another 
colleague and still said a claim could be raised and the money refunded. The webchat also 
confirmed that the funds would be returned. The fact that this was wrong was not Fs fault. 
She also highlighted that the bank was benefitting from what had happened because it was 
charging interest on the account used to make the second payment.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing, so 
Id like to explain why.
NatWest initially gave wrong information. It said it could raise a claim to return the funds 
when the reality was that it couldnt, as this wasnt a payment that had arisen as a result of a 
scam  this was a payment to a genuine business for goods and services who had 
unfortunately gone into administration. 
But in any event, it's important to understand that it doesnt follow that if NatWest gave 
wrong information, a fair way to resolve this complaint is for it to cover the money that was 
paid out. I say this because my role is to look at all the circumstances of the complaint and 
not just at a part of what happened.
On this point, Fs client had paid a significant sum of money for work to be completed. 
£6,552.76 of which was for a kitchen. Separately, F then paid that money onto M to supply 
the kitchen. However, by the time Ms L contacted NatWest on 13 January 2022, the initial 
loss had already occurred because F didnt have the kitchen or the money. I know this 
because Ms L said shed been trying to contact M without success. M also later confirmed it 
wouldnt be fulfilling the order or providing a refund. 
In the first call Ms L says the following,
Can I just quickly ask you what what sort of timeframes if the case is successful what sort of 
timeframes do you work on? 
The advisor responds, between fifteen to forty-five working days. Ms L continues, 
Our customer paid us for the kitchen and were meant to be fitting it next week. So, well 
need to come up with some capital to replace the kitchen hmm with a different supplier and 
sort it outand keep having them work.
I think its arguable that Ms L knew that the outcome of the refund wasnt guaranteed, as she 
says, if the case is successful. But crucially, there are other material points of consideration 
here. Looking at the exchange, F was under an obligation to still provide a kitchen to its 
client.
Ms L goes onto say, were gonna use credit which is fine. But obviously we dont want to 
pay that much interest on it. Weighing this up, it seems F was always going to have to find a 
way of paying for another kitchen in order to meet the obligation to its client.In the course of the investigation, the investigator asked Ms L, what would F have done 
differently if the correct information had been given. Ms L says, they would have told the 
client that M was in administration and couldnt provide the kitchen or a refund. She says it 
would have been difficult for the client, but theyd be the one going through this rather than 
the business. And it would have been for the client to recover the money. 
Ive thought about this. But Im afraid I dont find this persuasive or that this would have been 
a tenable situation. First, this isnt reflected in the conversation that took place and second, 
Fs client wouldnt have had a course of action against M  theyd paid F for a kitchen (not 
M) and thats what they would have expected in return from F. Therefore, I dont think the 
position would have been any different in terms of a second payment being made.
Finally, Ive considered the interest element on the amount borrowed for the second 
payment. But the interest on that was a consequence of the original supplier's failing 
combined with Fs own limited cashflow (which caused them to have to borrow) together with 
their own obligation to their client, which they already held when they contacted NatWest. 
So, thinking about all of this, I consider what NatWest told F is irrelevant in the chain of 
events and in the terms of the financial loss being claimed. Im really sorry to hear F is in 
some difficulty and has had to join the list of creditors. But for the reasons Ive given Im not 
going to require NatWest to do anything more. 
My provisional decision
 
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
NatWest responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision. Ms L on behalf F didnt 
respond by the deadline though the investigator did get some further comment afterwards.
In summary, Ms L explained that this decision could result in F going out of business. The 
bank had given wrong information and apologised, so it didnt feel right that it wouldnt have 
to provide a refund. This was protecting the bank rather than being fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand Ms Ls strength of feeling about what happened - F is now in a difficult 
situation. But I must consider the evidence objectively. I remain of the view that the situation 
with the second payment wouldnt have been any different based on my review of the 
available evidence. F had an obligation towards its client. Weighing all of this up, there isnt a 
reasonable basis for requiring NatWest to reimburse F. It follows that I now fully adopt my 
provisional decision as part of this final decision and wont be requiring NatWest to do 
anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman