DRN-3619334
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain Santander UK plc (Santander) unfairly applied an early repayment 
charge when they repaid their mortgage account. 
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G have been mortgage account customers of Santander for many years. 
Following a decision to move abroad for personal reasons, Mr G and Mrs G were charged 
an early repayment charge (ERC) on their mortgage account following its redemption in 
December 2021  a sum in excess of £3,000. Mr G and Mrs G feel this charge is unfair as it 
was Santander who had encouraged them to take out a new interest rate product only six 
months earlier, and if they had not taken this product there would be no ERC to pay. 
Mr G and Mrs G feel Santanders actions have resulted in their mortgage account being out 
of sync and has impacted on the ERC applied. Mr G and Mrs G says if they knew of their 
future health issues they wouldnt have taken up the early fixed rate interest deal, and even 
after having explained this to Santander, it showed little sympathy. Mr G and Mrs G feel 
Santander should have taken their circumstances into account before offering the early fixed 
interest deal in June 2021 and believes it should refund the ERC.  
Santander says there has been no change to the mortgage account overall term, only that 
the interest rate has been changed. Santander says Mr G and Mrs G were made aware of 
the terms and conditions relating to any new mortgage interest rate product. 
 Mr G and Mrs G werent happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator sympathised with Mr Gs and Mrs Gs personal circumstances but felt Santander 
had made clear, in the terms of the new fixed rate product offer in June 2021, that an ERC 
would be payable, if repaid early. The investigator says he couldnt agree Santander had 
acted unfairly when it charged the ERC in December 2021.
Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand and sympathise with Mr G and Mrs G, for taking the lifestyle decision they 
did, and I was sorry to learn of a close family members passing, which must have been 
difficult for them both. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander treated Mr G and Mrs G fairly 
when it applied the ERC, following the repayment of the mortgage account in December 
2021. 
Mr G and Mrs G have explained, due to no fault of their own, they took the decision to 
relocate having considered the likely effect on them, following the passing of a close family 
member due to a genetic illness. Mr G and Mrs G says that following the sale of their home 
they faced a considerable ERC in excess of £3,000 and even when they explained the 
reasons why they took the decision they did to Santander, it showed little sympathy and 
refused to refund the charge. 
Mr Gs and Mrs Gs complaint centres around the fact it was Santander who had encouraged 
the taking out of a new mortgage interest rate product, some months before their existing 
fixed rate product was due to mature- and for Santanders benefit rather than their own. In 
addition, Mr G and Mrs G are of the view the mortgage account was out of sync from the 
original December review date, and this could have added to the charges theyve incurred.  
I understand the points Mr G and Mrs G have raised and although I am sympathetic to their 
personal circumstances, which must have been worrying for them, unfortunately Im not fully 
persuaded by their argument. 
I say this because its not unusual for businesses like Santander to offer its existing 
customers the opportunity to take up new mortgage interest rate products from time to time, 
and on occasions before the expiry of an existing product that may be in place. Afterall, from 
the information I have seen that had been the case on Mr G and Mrs Gs mortgage account 
in previous years, in 2015, 2017 and 2019. Although Mr G and Mrs G may not agree, I cant 
see any evidence to support their claim such interest deals are solely to benefit Santander, 
after all its for consumers to consider whether or not such offers are suitable for them. 
But what is worth saying on those occasions when consumers like Mr G and Mrs G take up 
such offers before the existing interest rate offer expiries, I wouldnt expect any ERC to be 
charged  and Im satisfied no such ERCs were charged on those occasions. 
What is important to say is this was an offer on a non-advisory basis and was not a 
recommendation or a condition of the mortgage agreement, so it was for Mr G and Mrs G to 
decide whether or not the fixed interest product was suitable for them- taking into account 
their own personal circumstances at the time. So here at the time the offer was presented to 
Mr G and Mrs G in June 2021, I cant see they ever made Santander aware of their future 
plans, if they knew of them then, so its not clear how Santander could have considered any 
impact a new fixed interest rate deal, might have.   
Looking at the terms and conditions of the mortgage offer dated June 2021 it clearly states 
under section 7 Early repayment, a 3% ERC is payable in the event of the mortgage account 
being repaid prior to 2 September 2023. So, with that in mind I cant say Santander were 
acting unfairly when it charged the ERC here, when the mortgage account was repaid in 
December 2021. Additionally, under Section 2 of the mortgage offer it explains the remaining 
duration of the loan was until December 2044. So, although Mr G and Mrs G believed the 
mortgage term had been affected and was out of sync, this mortgage offer confirms the 
actual mortgage term hadnt changed only the interest rate product attached to it. 
I can see that Mr G and Mrs G have explained their personal situation to Santander and it 
has considered this, but Santander dont feel it meets its policy for waivers under exceptional 
circumstances and its not for me to tell them it must do so.
While Mr G and Mrs G may not agree, I wont be asking anymore of Santander here.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman