DRN-3413088
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with how she was treated by Black Horse Limited after taking out a hire 
purchase agreement with them.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss B was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. The agreement was for £16,078 (which included carry over negative equity 
from a previous agreement) over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £348.66 and a 
final optional payment of £4,649 if she wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement. 
In February 2020, due to an accident that resulted in her becoming disabled, Miss B could 
no longer use the car. She contacted Black Horse about her options in May 2021, one of 
which was to sell the car and settle the finance. But she says that potential buyers told her 
the colour of front of the car was different to rest of the car, so the car mayve been in an 
accident. And, when she spoke to a dealer about returning the car, she wasnt offered 
enough to settle the finance, and she couldnt afford to pay the difference.
Miss B complained to Black Horse, but they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. And 
they didnt think the colour difference meant the car had been in an accident. Black Horse 
offered to reduce the settlement amount, if Miss B could sell the car within three months. 
And they also paid her £100 for the delays in dealing with her complaint.
But Miss M wasnt happy with this offer, as it was made during a national lockdown. So, she 
said she wouldve had difficulties trying to sell the car. And she felt that Black Horse had 
discriminated against her during several phone calls. So, she referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Black Horse had explained several options to Miss B, but none of these 
were ideal for her situation. However, the investigator said that Black Horse made Miss B 
aware of all the options available to her. And they agreed to payment deferrals and reduced 
payment arrangements to assist Miss B. So, he didnt think Black Horse had acted unfairly.
While the investigator agreed that there was a difference in shade between the bumper and 
the wing, he didnt think was unusual as the bumper was made from a different material to 
the wing. And hed seen no evidence that the car had been in an accident before Miss B 
took possession of it. So, he didnt think the sale had been misrepresented.
The investigator listened to the phone calls Miss B had with Black Horse. And, while he 
understood how Miss B felt, he didnt think Black Horse had acted unreasonably in these 
calls. And he didnt think theyd discriminated against her.
The investigator also said that Miss B had raised a separate complaint about how Black 
Horse recorded a payment arrangement on her credit file. However, as this was a separate 
complaint that Black Horse havent yet responded to, it wasnt something were currently 
able to look into.
Miss B didnt agree with the investigator and she thought Black Horse shouldve done more. 
She also believed she was discriminated against because of her disability. As Miss B didnt 
agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss B was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset this situation has caused Miss B. Shes been left in a 
position where she has a car she can no longer use, at a time when her income had also 
severely reduced. But, for me to agree that Black Horse should compensate her for this, Id 
need to be satisfied that they didnt make her aware of all her settlement options, that they 
didnt treat her situation with consideration and forbearance, that the sale of the car was 
misrepresented to her, and/or that she was treated differently to other customers because of 
her disability. And in this situation, for the reasons below, I dont think thats the case.
misrepresentation
Ive looked at the photographs of the car. And the front bumper looks slightly duller than the 
surrounding body panels. But I dont think theres a significant difference in the actual colour. 
Miss B believes the car has been in an undisclosed accident, which presumably resulted in 
the front bumper being replaced. But Black Horse have suggested that difference is down to 
the different materials used  a plastic bumper and metal body panels  and how light 
reflects off these. 
When considering if the car was in an undisclosed accident, and if the sale was therefore 
misrepresented to Miss B, Im looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of 
fact and, if there was, whether it was the false statement of fact that induced Miss B to 
choose this particular car.
While I cant say for certain whether the car was previously in an accident, Ive not seen any 
evidence to show that it was. And I dont think that a slightly duller front bumper is 
compelling evidence to say that the car had definitely been in an accident. 
Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that the previous owner(s) declared an 
accident to the dealership, and the dealership deliberately withheld this information from 
Miss B. Because of this, Im satisfied that there hasnt been any false statement of fact. And, 
as a result, there was no misrepresentation of the car at the point of sale.settlement options
Ive seen Black Horses call notes, and listened to all the calls they had with Miss B. When 
Miss B first made them aware of her situation, Black Horse fully explained her termination 
options, and the implications of the shortfall between what shed paid, and what still needed 
to be paid. They also explained the alternative options of a private sale or trading in the car.
And, when Miss B expressed concern about the impact on her credit score, Black Horse 
explained there was no option for her to hand back the car and cancel the agreement with 
nothing further to pay. They also explained that this was the same for everyone, and there 
were no additional options that were specific to her circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen and heard, Im satisfied that Black Horse provided Miss B with all 
her settlement options. And, while they couldnt provide the solution she wanted, I dont think 
this means theyve done anything wrong.
Forbearance and due consideration
When a customer is in financial difficulties, the guidelines issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority require financial businesses to treat them with forbearance and due consideration.
From what Ive seen and heard, Black Horse provided Miss B with payment deferrals and 
with reduced payment arrangements. They also explored Miss Bs income and expenditure 
to ensure that any arrangement was affordable for her. And they offered to waive all the 
interest, reducing the settlement figure, if Miss B was able to sell the car with three months.
Given this, Im satisfied they treated Miss Bs situation with consideration and forbearance. 
And, while I appreciate the difficulties Miss B mayve had trying to sell her car at the time of a 
national lockdown, this doesnt mean that the offer Black Horse made was unfair.
discrimination
Miss B has referred to the specific ways in which she believes Black Horse discriminated 
against her. Shes said that, after being told she was unable to drive, they asked her to drive 
the car back to the dealership. She also says they inappropriately asked her how she was 
able to get to the shops.
While Miss B had told Black Horse that she wasnt able to drive the car, she also confirmed 
on two separate calls that her partner was still using the car. I havent heard anything where 
Black Horse asked Miss B any inappropriate questions, or made any inappropriate 
comments, about her inability to drive. And they explained that, if she were to surrender the 
car, as they appreciated Miss B couldnt drive, they could arrange for someone to collect the 
car from her.
Miss B also said that Black Horse were dismissive of her hearing problems. Based on what 
Ive seen and heard, theres nothing to show me that Miss B ever made Black Horse aware 
of her hearing problems. There was once instance of Miss B telling Black Horse that the call 
was muffled, but this was resolved within the first minute. And Miss B didnt mention that 
she had any hearing problems during that call.
There were also two instances, both on different calls, of Miss B asking Black Horse to 
repeat what was said. Which they did. And Miss B referred to her disability immediately after 
both of these instances, but she didnt make any reference to her hearing problems.Except for what Ive already referred to, there were no further instances of Miss B not being 
able to hear what was being said. Or any instances where Black Horse were dismissive of 
her hearing problems during any of the calls. 
Finally, Miss B said that Black Horse spoke to her in a condescending way, saying that 
because shed worked in a bank, her disability wouldnt stop her knowing that her credit file 
could be affected.
On multiple calls to Black Horse, including the initial call when she advised them of her 
disability and asked what her options were, Miss B made it clear that a default registered 
against her name would impact on her ability to work in finance. Which is why she couldnt 
voluntarily terminate the agreement, or sell the car, if any shortfall remained.
However, there were no instances where Black Horse assumed Miss B had any knowledge 
of how her credit file could be affected, and they explained the impact to her on more than 
one occasion. And they didnt refer to where she worked during any of the calls.
In a call that took place on 1 February 2021, as part of a conversation about what support 
could be provided, Black Horse asked Miss B the circumstances of her accident, and how 
she was recovering. During this brief exchange, Miss B didnt indicate that she didnt want to 
discuss this, or that it was uncomfortable for he to do so. While I dont consider it was 
absolutely necessary for Black Horse to have asked these questions, I dont think they were 
asked in a condescending way, or that there were any inappropriate comments.
In addition to the above, I havent heard any further instance in the calls that Ive listened to 
where Black Horse treated Miss B any differently because of her disability, or where they 
made any inappropriate comments relating to her disability.
Given the above, I dont think that Black Horse have discriminated against Miss B, and I 
wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman