DRN-4187672
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Barclays applied interest and charges to his mortgage whilst he was in 
prison.  
What happened
Mr D held a mortgage with Barclays which began in 2008. The mortgage was on a 
repayment basis over a 13 year period. A condition of the mortgage was that Mr D take out a 
Mortgage Current Account and Mortgage Reserve (overdraft). 
In July 2015, Mr D was sent to prison. From then until his release in 2021 some, but not all, 
of the mortgage repayments were made. The mortgage was redeemed in full in 2022.
Following his release from prison, Mr D told Barclays that he hadnt authorised a number of 
transactions coming out of his current account. He complained after Barclays told him that 
that it wouldnt be providing a refund and he referred his concerns to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. This complaint has been looked at under a separate complaint 
reference. 
Mr D had also raised linked concerns about what had specifically happened with his 
mortgage and so Barclays considered a separate complaint about this. Barclays didnt 
uphold this complaint either and Mr D asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider 
the matter.
An investigator here issued an assessment not upholding the complaint. They said Barclays 
had followed its process for when customers are in prison and that there had remained an 
obligation on Mr D to ensure that mortgage payments were made. 
Mr D asked for the matter to be escalated to an Ombudsman and the file has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
Another Ombudsman recently issued a final decision on the other complaint, not upholding 
it, on the basis they considered the disputed payments had been authorised.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mr D. But I hope my explanation helps him to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion. 
The start point here is that, despite being sent to prison, Mr D still had a responsibility to 
make sure his mortgage was paid. 
Mr Ds concerns about disputed transactions on his account have been considered under a 
different complaint reference. As such, my decision is focused on what happened with the 
mortgage whilst Mr D was in prison and the actions Barclays took specifically in relation to 
this. 
Mr D has said he doesnt think Barclays should have applied charges and/or interest to the 
mortgage account whilst he was in prison, due to the overarching circumstances including 
the concerns raised about disputed transactions covered under the other case reference. He 
hasnt suggested that any of the charges or interest applied werent in line with the terms of 
the mortgage contract. 
In order to uphold this complaint and tell Barclays to do something different, I would need to 
find that it had made some kind of error or otherwise treated Mr D unfairly. I havent found 
this to be the case. 
Ive seen Barclays policy for when it finds out that a customer is in prison. The policy is 
centred around trying to obtain contact details for the prison and arranging for a third party to 
have authority to deal with the account. 
Barclays contact notes show that it was trying to get in contact with Mr D throughout much 
of 2016, after payments had been missed. In November 2016, Barclays was made aware 
that a third party known to Mr D had undertaken to provide prison contact details. However, 
it appears no such information was then provided.
The contact notes also show that a third party contacted Barclays in relation to the account 
at points in 2017 and beyond. The notes indicate that on each occasion the third party was 
encouraged to arrange with Mr D to get authority to be able to deal with the account. No 
such authority is recorded as having been provided. 
I appreciate Mr D says he wrote to Barclays three times to let it know of his whereabouts. 
However, Barclays contact notes show the first record of any direct contact from Mr D after 
he went to prison, was in 2020. If Barclays had received correspondence prior to this, it 
would likely be showing in the contact notes. 
Thinking about Barclays policy and what happened over time, I dont find that Barclays 
actions or communications were unreasonable. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays hasnt followed its internal processes in this case. Or 
that these processes have had an adverse impact on Mr D. I can understand why Mr D 
wouldve liked Barclays to have done more. But, ultimately, it was still his responsibility to 
ensure the mortgage was paid, and he didnt always do so. And even if Barclays had taken 
further steps, I cant see the situation wouldve been any different, and charges and interest 
would still have been applied to his account.
I appreciate that Mr D feels strongly about this situation. However, taking everything into 
account, I cant say that Barclays has acted unfairly in applying interest and charges as it did 
and I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Ben BrewerOmbudsman