DRN-2895599
The complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) repeatedly increased the credit 
limit on her credit card to an unaffordable level.
What happened
Miss M opened a credit card with Aqua on 19 June 2012. Miss Ms credit limit was increased 
in October 2012, February 2013, August 2014, January 2015, and July 2015.
Miss M says she informed Aqua of her financial difficulties in October 2015, but it did not act. 
In October 2016 Aqua sent Miss M a default notice and later sold the debt. 
In January 2020 Miss M complained that the lending was unaffordable, and that the debt 
was sold too soon for her to have a chance to make repayments. Suffering from stress and 
anxiety, Miss M complained that Aqua had taken advantage. She asked Aqua to write off her 
debt and compensate her for the treatment shed received.
Aqua disagreed, it explained that it wasnt required to verify Mrs Ms income and that the 
affordability model it used was enough. It also felt that some of the points Miss M 
complained about were brought too late. Miss M referred the complaint to our service.
Our Investigator thought the credit limit increases in October 2012 and February 2013 were 
brought to our service too late to consider. They did however think we could investigate the 
credit limit increases from August 2014 onwards, and thought that Aqua hadnt done enough 
to check that they were affordable.
Miss M accepted our Investigators opinion, including that the first two credit limit increases 
were brought too late to consider. 
Aqua disagreed with our Investigator  it felt that it wasnt required to verify Mrs Ms income 
through statements and that it still believed its affordability model, along with data provided 
by a Credit Reference Agency, was enough. It also highlighted that Miss M had the option to 
opt out of these increases and the benefit of the use of the money. It asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the 2012 and 2013 increases have been brought out of time, and as 
Miss M has accepted this, I wont comment on them further. Instead my decision will focus 
on the parts of the complaint our service is able to investigate.
Before agreeing to approve any credit limit for Miss M, Aqua needed to make proportionate 
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. 
These checks needed to be a borrower focussed consideration of the impact of the lending 
on Miss M  not just an assessment of the likelihood of the debt being repaid. Miss M 
shouldve had the ability to repay the lending without excessive difficulty, whilst meeting 
other commitments and avoiding the need for further borrowing to meet payments.
Checks can include but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the customers 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
customers personal circumstances.
Aqua have confirmed that it used its own affordability model to assess if further credit could 
be extended to Miss M, including internal account management and information from an 
external credit reference agency.  It says that when using these methods there was no 
indication about Miss Ms financial difficulties at the times her limit was increased. It also 
doesnt believe it required bank statements as evidence of income and expenditure to make 
its decision.
So, Ive considered whether the checks Aqua carried out were proportionate to the level of 
credit Miss M was offered at each stage. If Im persuaded there are factors which shouldve 
made Aqua question the increase and make further checks, Id expect it to put things right.
August 2014 limit increase from £1250 to £2200
The data covering the time leading up to the increase in 2014 shows Miss M was often using 
her credit card to make cash withdrawals. This is an expensive way to obtain cash and can 
be an indicator of financial difficulties, particularly when used frequently. In the five months 
leading up to this increase Miss M had withdrawn a total of £710 in cash.
Whilst Miss M made large payments towards her outstanding balance  it was in part then 
withdrawn again as cash. Within five months of paying off her balance in March 2014,     
Miss M had spent her full available balance again and requested a limit increase of £950.
I disagree with Aqua that there were no financial difficulty or affordability indicators being 
reported to them at the time. I think this pattern of repayment followed by frequent cash 
withdrawals is enough of an indication that Miss M may have been borrowing funds 
elsewhere and didnt have enough funds to keep up her payments without further borrowing. 
Im not satisfied that Aqua had enough information to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment. Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check Aqua 
shouldve requested further information from Miss M about her finances, such as recent 
bank statements. Ive considered whether its lending decision likely ought to have been any 
different if these proportionate checks had taken place. 
Had Aqua looked at Miss Ms bank statements, Im satisfied it wouldve prompted further 
discussions with Miss M which wouldve brought to light Miss Ms financial situation. This is 
because the statements wouldve shown a friend was regularly making payments into     
Miss Ms account before payments to credit providers were due.
Proportionate checks wouldve revealed that Miss M could not sustainably repay any further 
credit on her income alone. I think it was irresponsible for Aqua to approve the credit limit 
increase considering these circumstances. So, I think Aqua need to do more to put things 
right.
January 2015 limit increase to £2950Im also persuaded that had Miss Ms circumstances been recognised in August 2014, Aqua 
wouldnt have approved further lending five months later without first checking whether there 
was evidence to show her circumstances had significantly improved. And Im satisfied that 
wasnt the case, but Id like to explain why.
Miss M spent all her available credit within a month of her limit being increased, and 
information provided by an external credit reference agency to Aqua showed her balances 
on credit cards elsewhere were also increasing.
Miss Ms bank statements show a monthly income of around £1000 which was 
supplemented by friends and funds from short-term loan companies. For example, in 
December 2014 Miss M borrowed £330 to pay her mortgage and other bills. Miss Ms bank 
account was also regularly overdrawn. Miss Ms debt was increasing, and she was relying 
on further lending to maintain her payments. 
Im satisfied proportionate checks wouldve shown this further limit increase also wasnt 
affordable or sustainable for Miss M. Aqua shouldnt have approved further lending for this 
reason. I think Aqua need to do more to put things right.
July 2015 limit increase to £3700
Again, Im persuaded that had Miss Ms circumstances been recognised previously Aqua 
wouldnt have approved further lending six months later without first checking whether there 
was evidence to show her circumstances had significantly improved. And Im satisfied that 
wouldnt have been the case.
Miss M had withdrawn a further £790 in cash as soon as her limit was increased to £2950, 
bringing her account over its limit. By July 2015 Miss Ms account had gone over the agreed 
limit in four of the five months leading to the new increase, Miss M paid two late fees and 
£48 in over limit fees.
The information provided by an external credit reference agency to Aqua showed Miss Ms 
other credit card balances had continued to increase, indicating again that Miss M was 
increasingly in debt.
So, considering everything stated above, I dont think Aqua carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy that Miss M would be able to repay the increased lending in a 
sustainable way. And Im satisfied that further lending shouldnt have been approved due to 
Miss Ms circumstances at the time.
Defaulting the account and selling it too quickly
Guidance from the Information Commissioners Office suggests that accounts should be 
defaulted when they are between three months and six months in arrears. Miss Ms account 
fell into arrears in November 2015, and a default wasnt registered until November 2016.
The default could have been registered sooner  but I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Aqua to provide further chances for Miss M to repay the debt in this instance. 
I say this because a repayment plan was agreed in April 2016 and interest and fees on the 
account were frozen. So, Miss M was not falling further into debt due to this delay. Once the 
plan started no payments were received, but Miss M was in contact directly with the 
business, attempting to arrange new payment plans and registering complaints about the 
original default notice. I can understand why the default proceedings didnt continue until 
after these two discussions were resolved.Once these discussions had ended and no payment was received, Aqua wrote to Miss M on 
25 October 2016 to explain that her account had been closed and would be defaulted. The 
default was put in place on 30 November 2016 and the debt was sold at the same time.
Aqua had a duty to report accurate information about the account that Miss M held, so I cant 
say that it was wrong for it to apply the default when Miss M had stopped making payments. 
Aqua also provided Miss M with adequate warning and the opportunity to resolve the issue 
by making payments. So, at the point of sending Miss Ms default notice it was clear that 
Miss M was unable to make her contractual payments. Aqua registered the default at the 
point it felt the relationship had broken down.
I appreciate that Miss M is unhappy that her account was sold so soon after it was defaulted, 
but Aqua is correct in saying that this was something it could do. I do think that Aqua acted 
reasonably by providing Miss M with adequate notification of its intentions and time to 
address the matter by making payments. 
Putting things right
Aqua acted reasonably when defaulting and selling Miss Ms account. But Aqua also 
approved three limit increases for Miss M which Im satisfied proportionate checks wouldve 
prevented, and this has impacted the accounts trajectory since August 2014.
In order to put things right for Miss M Aqua should:
a) Remove all interest and charges on the account arising from transactions made on or 
after the date of the August 2014 credit limit increase; and
b) Add the capital cost of any transactions made after this increase to the outstanding 
balance Miss M owed prior to the increase
c) Treat any payments Miss M had made since the increase as payments towards the 
balance calculated in the a + b
d) If this clears the balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Miss M along 
with 8% simple interest calculated from the date of the overpayments to the date of 
settlement or if an outstanding balance remains, Aqua needs to treat Miss M 
sympathetically and fairly, which may mean agreeing an affordable repayment plan; 
and
e) Remove any negative information about the account from the August 2014 limit 
increase date onwards from Miss Ms credit file once any amount owed has been 
settled
As the debt has been sold to a third party, Aqua should either repurchase it and ensure the 
above steps are carried out or liaise with the third party to bring these changes about. Aqua 
has already refunded £103.21 in interest and charges to the third party in order to reduce 
Miss Ms debt, so this amount should be deducted from any refund due. Aqua also offered 
Miss M £40 as a good will gesture  which she has now accepted. This should also be paid 
if it hasnt been already.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Aqua to take off tax from this interest. Aqua must give 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. If Aqua 
intends to use the refunds to reduce an amount Miss M owes, it must do this after tax.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should calculate 
and pay redress as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman