DRN-1758161
The complaint
Mrs F says Yorkshire Building Society (trading as Chelsea Building Society) mis-sold
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs F bought a PPI policy by phone in 2005 to protect her mortgage repayments. The policy 
gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, contradictory or inconclusive (as some of it is here), I 
have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider 
is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Chelsea Building Society had to make it clear to Mrs F that the PPI was optional  and she 
had to agree to take it out. Mrs F says she has a clear recollection she was told she had to 
have PPI, and the phone call record and acceptance letter give no indication the policy was 
optional. 
The society no longer has a call recording or transcript but thats not surprising or 
unreasonable given the sale was so long ago. It has provided however a copy of Mrs Fs 
mortgage offer. Section 9 states You are not obliged to take out any insurance through 
Chelsea Building Society and makes clear only buildings insurance is a condition of the 
mortgage. It then shows PPI, with the cost set out separately, in a section headed Optional 
Insurance. So I would have expected Mrs F to contact the society and query the inclusion of 
PPI at this point if she didnt want it - even if she was led to believe it was mandatory earlier 
in the process (and I havent found enough evidence to conclude this was the case). 
I have considered Mrs Fs comments carefully, but I also have to think about how long ago 
the sale was and how that might impact what she recalls. 
Overall, I think Chelsea Building Society made it clear to Mrs F that the policy was optional, 
and she chose to take it. 
Mrs F says Chelsea Building Society advised her to buy PPI, but our adjudicator didnt 
consider if the advice given was right. Chelsea Building Society says it didnt recommend the 
policy to Mrs F, so it didnt have to check the policy was right for her. It says at this time it 
didnt provide advice on its PPI phone sales. But I dont need to make a finding on this point 
as even if Chelsea Building Society had recommended the PPI to Mrs F, based on what I 
know of her circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for her. Ill explain why.
Mrs F has told us she was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was 
sick and had savings worth between six and 12 months salary (or three to four years 
mortgage payments). She says she was also entitled to one weeks redundancy pay for 
every year of service (four at the time of the sale). So in the absence of any other financial 
responsibilities she didnt need PPI. 
But the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in addition to her work benefits  and in 
the case of unemployment this was much longer than her work entitlement. It would have 
allowed her to use any savings for other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them 
intact for any future needs. I note from her mortgage application form that she had 
unsecured debt worth around six months salary at the time of the sale so she did have other 
financial commitments and that level of savings may not have always been available to her. 
Mrs F was borrowing a large sum of money over a long period of time secured against her 
home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the PPI 
would have been useful to Mrs F in addition to her existing means.
Mrs F also sent us details of a mortgage life insurance policy she held, but this offered a 
different kind of protection. It covered death and critical illness, repaying Mrs Fs mortgage in 
full in those circumstances. But it would not have helped Mrs F with monthly mortgage 
repayments in the same circumstances as PPI. The document clearly states at the bottom of 
page two that Mrs F had not selected any ongoing mortgage payment protection as part of 
her plan.
Chelsea Building Society also had to give clear, fair and not misleading information about 
the PPI so that Mrs F could make a properly informed choice. There might have been areas 
in which Chelsea Building Society didnt give Mrs F as much information as it shouldve 
done. But I dont think better information wouldve put her off taking out the PPI. I dont know 
at what stage during the sale the cost was first made clear. But it was set out in the 
mortgage offer. And the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. I also dont 
know when the main exclusions and limitations were made clear to Mrs F. But I cant see 
that she was affected by them so I dont think better information on them would have 
changed her decision.
Overall, I dont think Mrs F has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman