DRN-3454951
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) wont refund her 
for transactions she made as part of a third-party scam.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 1 April 2022 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Miss Bs testimony. But briefly, Miss B 
made a number of payments between 1 October 2021 and 29 October 2021 totalling 
£21,500 (for which she incurred charges of £28.50). She believed she was making 
payments to help someone she had recently become romantically involved with online.
Miss B said in late September 2021, she met an individual (who I will refer to as C) on a 
social media dating platform. The pair soon began messaging through a popular instant 
messaging forum. C explained he was working abroad on an oil rig and working on a 
project before returning home. Unfortunately, unbeknown to Miss B at the time, C was in 
fact a fraudster. 
After the pair had been messaging for a few days C asked Miss B to log in to his bank 
account to pay a tax bill. The following day C asked Miss B for money for a gas cylinder 
as he was unable to access his bank account due to an unrecognised login. Miss B 
explained she didnt have the money and she wasnt able to obtain money from friends or 
family. In the end Miss B shared her bank details with C and provided him with the code 
to authorise a transaction for £1,500. Miss B went on to take out two loans for £10,000 
each which she also forwarded to an account given by C.
When Miss B realised, shed been scammed she asked BoS to refund the transactions.
BoS declined Miss Bs claim. It said because the transfers were international payments, 
they were not covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). It also 
considered Miss B did not have a reasonable basis for believing C was genuine or would 
pay her back. It said a conversation took place with the bank after the first payment and 
Miss B told it the payment was for a long-term friend and she would be making further 
payments to this person.
BoS said it discussed romance scams with Miss B at this point, but Miss B said she was 
confident in what she was doing. It said further payments were not made in quick 
succession and went to the same payee that Miss B had confirmed was genuine. It also 
felt evoking the banking protocol would not have stopped the scam.
The investigator upheld the complaint in part. He didnt feel the bank had done enough 
and missed an opportunity to discuss the payment Miss B was making in more detail 
and ultimately it ought to have evoked the Banking Protocol. But the investigator also felt 
that Miss B ought to share in the responsibility for her actions as well. He therefore 
recommended the bank refund 50% of the payments Miss B made.
BoS accepted the investigators recommendations but Miss B did not.
I initially wrote to both parties to explain that I was reaching the same outcome as the 
investigator  broadly for the same reasons but explaining that redress was going to 
differ. BoS offered to put things right as suggested but Miss B wanted a decision on the 
matter.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 September 2022. BoS accepted my provisional 
decision. Miss B did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For 
completeness, I have set this out below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case because the payments were made to 
an international account.
The relevant regulations (and the terms of her account) make Miss B responsible for 
payments shes made herself in the first instance. In broad terms, the starting position is 
that a firm is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises, 
in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. Theres no dispute here that Miss B authorised (albeit that the first 
transaction was carried out by C with Miss Bs authority) the payments.
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
customer even though the consumer authorised the payment. Taking into account the 
law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time, I consider BoS should fairly and 
reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing 
of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
BoS accepted the investigators recommendation to refund 50% of Miss Bs loss - accepting that it ought to have done more and recognising that means it bears some 
responsibility for Miss Bs loss. As it has already accepted it ought to have done more - I 
dont propose to go into detail here  except to say that broadly for the same reasons as 
the investigator, I agree it was right of BoS to make that offer.
Miss B did not accept the investigators recommendations  because not all her losses 
have been compensated for. This is because the investigator concluded Miss B should 
share in the responsibility for her losses.
So, as well as thinking carefully about what BoSs obligations were, as set out above, the 
other key issue is whether Miss B acted reasonably taking into account all the 
circumstances of the scam. So, I have gone on to consider whether Miss B should bear 
some responsibility for her loss by way of contributory negligence.
Miss B sent considerable sums to, and shared her bank details with, someone 
she had met through an online dating site after just a few days. She had not 
met the individual in person or spoken to them on the phone. I think the risk of 
sending money and sharing her banking details in this situation is clearly 
heightened and warranted further checking. I dont think Miss B did enough to 
satisfy herself she would get her money back or ever meet C. She had no proof 
he really existed and took his word for it.
Miss B was willing to mislead the bank by giving false information about how 
long she had known C for the first transfer. I appreciate this may have been 
under the influence of the scammer, but I think, in these circumstances, it 
wouldve been more difficult for the bank to accurately assess whether or not 
she was at risk of financial harm so that it could easily unravel the scam or 
break the spell which Miss B was acting under.
On 1 October 2021, Miss B told C she had spoken to a family member and he 
said he was very concerned about her and that this was not genuine. On 26 
October 2021, Miss B explained that she had been warned by her friend from 
the beginning as she expected C to ask Miss B for money. Miss B received 
warnings from family and friends and went ahead anyway; ignoring what she 
had been told by those closest to her.
On 16 October 2021, Miss B indicated that she was aware of scams like this as 
she told C you hear of stories like this and I just have the smallest fears. But 
it seems she chose to ignore what she knew and believe in C when he 
reassured her that he was genuine.
On 28 October 2021, it seems from the messages with C that Miss B received a 
warning about online romance scams and shared the image with C. Specifically 
Miss B seemed concerned and referred C to part of the warning about Helping 
someone online with money and  not available on phone or video and having 
bank details. Yet still proceeded with the loan and forwarded the money to C the 
following day.
So, despite clear red flags, Miss B proceeded - choosing to rely only on what the perpetrator 
told her. It seems to me Miss B understood the potential  financial implications and took a 
chance by believing what she was being told by C. Whilst I think BoS could have done 
more in my view Miss B should bear some of the responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence.Recovery of funds
In this case the funds were transferred to an international bank account. International 
banks arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK. The first 
scam payment was made on 1 October 2021 and the last on 29 October 2021 and the 
scam was reported on 8 November 2021. BoS contacted the receiving banks on 9 
November 2021 and asked for the funds to be returned to Miss B. But BoS is reliant upon 
the international banks choosing to return funds. It cant require or force them to and 
unfortunately no funds have been returned. And even if there was a slight delay by BoS, I 
dont consider it would make a difference in this case as scammers usually remove funds 
within hours.
Im sorry Miss B has lost money and I can understand why she would like to be 
compensated for all her losses. There is no dispute that Miss B has been a victim of 
fraud and I am deeply sorry for that, but it doesnt automatically mean BoS is liable for 
her loss or all her losses. Its important to emphasise that Im only considering whether 
the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for 
what happened.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Miss B. I do accept she has 
fallen victim to what can only be described as a cruel and callous scam. However, despite 
my natural sympathy for the situation she finds herself in, ultimately, I think Miss B should 
also bear some responsibility for her actions. It therefore follows that I dont think that 
BoSs refusal to fully reimburse Miss B for these transactions was unfair or unreasonable.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss B, I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
Refund 50% of the first transaction of £1,500
Refund 50% of the total loan repayments Miss B has made towards both loans
Refund 50% of the international charges incurred on all transactions
Add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum to each repayment above 
from the date it was made to the date of settlement.
Write off 50% of the remaining balances on the loans (make arrangements 
with the third-party loan provider or pay Miss B the equivalent so she can do 
so)
Amend her credit file to reflect the above.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and I require Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax to put things right for Miss B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman