DRN-4066351
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the way Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) handled a claim under 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
In late December 2020 Mrs F noticed cracks in the walls of her porch, and contacted 
Tesco to report a claim.
Tesco commenced investigations into the cause of the cracks and in a preliminary 
report dated 31 December 2020 it noted the damage appeared to be related to 
foundation movement of the porch.
Tesco say they accepted and progressed the claim for subsidence. 
Mrs F tells us she encountered delays and had to chase Tesco for updates 
throughout the claims process.
A cash settlement was agreed in November 2022.
Mrs F complained to Tesco about the delays
In its final response dated 13 December 2022 Tesco apologised and acknowledged 
there had been delays and it hadnt updated Mrs F as it should have.
Mrs F remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Mrs F told us she wanted Tesco to explain why there had been delays and a give a 
sincere apology. She wanted proof that the staff involved had been educated so it 
didnt happen to anyone else, her premium to be reduced and wanted a gesture of 
goodwill for the stress caused.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He agreed there had been some failings 
although he felt they had a minor impact on the claim and overall timescales to reach 
a settlement. He explained that claims of this nature take an extended period to 
investigate and resolve, but he could award compensation for avoidable delays. And 
he recommended Tesco should make a compensation award of £100.
The investigator also advised it wasnt within our remit to punish a business for errors 
or tell it how to train its staff. He went on to explain premiums can be impacted by 
claims of this nature. And it was a commercial decision for the business to determine 
the premium that reflects the level of risk of providing cover.
Mrs F didnt think this was a fair resolution and asked that an ombudsman decide her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
Mrs F has made her strength of feeling on her case clear, and if I dont mention a particular 
point shes made it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel 
it necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mrs F doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
The issue I have to decide is did Tesco act reasonably and fairly in its handling of this case. 
There is no dispute there were delays, Tesco have acknowledged Mrs F had to chase more 
than she shouldve needed to and that there were some delays. So Ive considered the 
impact of the delays compared to the level of disruption and time a subsidence claim of this 
scale might be expected to take. 
Having done so I agree with our investigators view that the additional impact of the failings 
by Tesco was relatively minor in the overall time taken to settle the claim. That is not to say 
Mrs F wasnt inconvenienced or didnt experience stress during the time taken to resolve her 
claim, simply that the additional impact of Tescos failings did not significantly impact the 
overall time taken. Im satisfied £100 is an appropriate award in the circumstances of this 
case.
Ive thought about what Mrs F has said about her premium increasing and wanting a more 
reasonable premium. I agree with the comments made by our investigator on this point. It is 
a commercial decision for Tesco to charge the premium it considers appropriate for the level 
of risk it has underwritten, and claims experience is a factor in determining that risk. Ive 
seen no evidence the increase is unfair.
In her submissions Mrs F says others may not have had the tenacity to chase Tesco as she 
did, and that if she hadnt chased regularly, she feels the claim wouldve taken even longer 
to settle. My role is to consider what happened with this complaint. I cannot consider what 
might have happened if it were not for the interventions Mrs F made, or how other people 
might have been affected in a similar situation. That said, I can understand why Mrs F feels 
the claim wouldve progressed more slowly if she hadnt intervened.
I note in its final response letter Tesco says it sincerely apologises for the delays it caused, 
and I have no reason to doubt its apology is sincere.
On balance, Im not satisfied Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably in the handling of this 
claim and I uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Tesco should pay Mrs F £100.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mrs F £100 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the avoidable delays in progressing 
this claim. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman