DRN-4101255
The complaint
A company Ill call E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) is withholding its funds 
pending ID checks, after closing Es accounts. To put things right, E wants Lloyds to return 
the account balance.
E is represented by one of its directors, Mr A.
What happened
In 2022, Lloyds blocked Es account while it carried out a review. On completing the review, 
Lloyds decided it no longer wanted to do business with E, so it wrote to Mr A on 22 July 
2022 giving notice of its intention to close his accounts in 2 months time. The letter said Mr 
A could collect his credit balance by taking the notice to close letter, along with identification 
to a local branch. The letter clearly specified what ID documents would be acceptable, and 
the documents requested were common identification documents.
Mr A says he attended his local branch in August with ID, but was told his account was 
blocked, so he couldnt withdraw the funds. Lloyds later apologised, saying that wasnt 
correct and paid him compensation of £25 and said its closures team would be in touch.
On 29 September, Mr A wrote to Lloyds asking for his accounts to be closed and a cheque 
for the balance sent to his home address. He spoke to Lloyds to insist they release his 
balance by cheque, but Lloyds said it couldnt accommodate that request, and repeated that 
Mr A must attend a branch, as previously described. It apologised for what it described as 
multiple lengthy phone calls Mr A had made and sent him a cheque for £30 as 
compensation.
Mr A remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said he works full 
time and only has Sundays off, when Lloyds branches are closed. So, he insisted Lloyds 
send his account balance by cheque.
Our investigator was satisfied Lloyds was entitled to block and close Mr As accounts, but 
she felt it had delayed in releasing the funds, because it appeared Mr A had previously 
attended branch with ID as requested but had been turned away. So, she awarded 8% 
simple interest from 8 August 2022 until the date the funds were returned. She also told 
Lloyds to pay an additional £150 in compensation. She said Mr A should attend branch with 
ID to collect his funds, as per Lloyds request.
Lloyds accepted the outcome, but said interest should be payable up to 19 May 2023, 
allowing Mr A one month to collect his funds, rather than an open-ended timeframe. Our 
investigator agreed and confirmed the updated position to Mr A, who accepted the outcome 
and asked for his account balance to be returned. 
However, he later said he wanted the funds to be sent by cheque, saying he works from 8am 
to 7pm at his restaurant, from Monday to Saturday, that he is short-staffed and that his 
nearest branch always has a long queue. Our investigator didnt change her outcome, so Mr 
A asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review.
And, having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied Lloyds was acting in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked Es accounts. And that it was entitled to do so under 
the account terms and conditions that governed the relationship between Lloyds and E. 
On completion of its review, Lloyds decided to close Es accounts and explained what Mr A 
would need to do to collect the balance. Lloyds does appear to have caused some confusion 
as it says Mr A was initially told to attend branch, only for him to be given incorrect 
information and be sent away. 
I can see that caused E inconvenience as its director, Mr A, was diverted away from Es 
business. And I note Lloyds awarded £55 (£25 and £30) in compensation, but I think it 
should pay an additional £150 to compensate E for the inconvenience for delaying E from 
accessing its funds, plus simple interest on the account balance at a rate of 8% from 8 
August 2022 (being the date Mr A complained) up to 19 May 2023, being one month after 
our investigator advised Mr A of her outcome. And Im satisfied that gives Mr A sufficient 
time to attend branch.
However, I wont ask Lloyds to comply with Mr As request to issue the account balance to 
him by cheque. Lloyds is entitled to ask its customers to identify themselves in these 
circumstances, to ensure it gives the money to the correct person. And I dont consider it 
unreasonable to ask Mr A to attend branch with identification to withdraw the account 
balance of over £15,000.
Mr A suggested that Lloyds should issue the balance by cheque because it was happy to 
issue the compensation payment by cheque. And has said he doesnt have time to attend 
branch as he works at Es restaurant all day, every day and cant get away. However, I can 
see there are 5 Lloyds branches within 5 miles of Mr As address, and his closest branch is 
just 2 miles away. 
Mr A managed to find the time to attend branch before, and while that was a wasted journey, 
this decision compensates E for that. And that previous visit, plus the amount of time Mr A 
has told our service he has spent in trying to resolve this matter and the fact that he has told 
our service his restaurant is not currently trading, contradicts Mr As suggestion that he cant 
find time to attend branch.
And Im not persuaded that the inconvenience it will cause E by having its director attend 
branch is so severe that it would justify a direction from our service that would oblige Lloyds 
to circumvent its security protocols. That Lloyds chose to send a low value cheque for 
compensation has no bearing on my outcome. Theres a clear difference in risk between 
sending a cheque for £30, and authorising a payment of over £15,000. So, I dont find that 
Lloyds should apply the same criteria to both payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay E £150 plus simple interest on Es 
account balance at a rate of 8% from 8 August 2022 to 19 May 2023.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman