DRN-1979067
The complaint
Mr A complains that Match the Cash Limited (trading as Guarantormyloan) was irresponsible 
to approve his loan.
What happened
Mr A took out a Peer to Peer (P2P) loan via Guarantormyloan on 15 January 2019. He 
borrowed £2,000 and was due to repay it over 18 months with monthly repayments of 
£177.76 until 15 July 2020.
Mr A says that his credit file would have shown a very poor credit rating, along with a long 
list of other borrowing, including short-term loans. He says he had a poor repayment history 
and was borrowing just to pay his bills. Mr A adds that Guarantormyloans money was used 
to pay off some of his other loans, but it just kept him in the debt loop.
Guarantormyloan says it completed a full assessment of Mr As income and expenditure 
which included verifying his income and checking his credit file. It says Mr A provided a bank 
statement and pay slip and further checks showed Mr A was not receiving rental income as 
hed declared. Guarantormyloan says Mr A said the loan was to repay his short-term loans 
and part of his credit card balance. It says it considered the loan was affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Guarantormyloans checks showed Mr A was spending a significant amount of money on 
gambling and it should have realised it was unlikely hed be able to sustainably repay the 
loan. Our adjudicator recommended that Guarantormyloan should refund any payments 
Mr A made above the principal (plus 8% statutory interest) or agree a suitable repayment 
plan for any remaining principal balance once all payments had been applied to it. She said 
it should also ensure that any associated negative information is removed from Mr As credit 
file.
Guarantormyloan responded to say, in summary, that Mr As credit file showed no payment 
issues. It added that, had the outstanding loans been repaid as discussed, Mr A would in 
fact have been left with a surplus of over £500 each month. Guarantormyloan added that 
Mr A did, in fact, clear his loan after nine months and that at no point did he raise the issue 
of gambling. It said, therefore, that Mr As complaint had not been properly addressed and 
the gambling was irrelevant. Finally, Guarantormyloan said Match the Cash is a Market 
Place Lender and as such did not receive the capital and interest paid by Mr A as these are 
paid directly to the lenders on the platform.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Guarantormyloan agreed 
Mr As lending. Its rules and guidance obliged it to make responsible lending decisions. As 
set out in the regulators Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that 
Guarantormyloan needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or 
not a borrower could afford to meet the loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement.
Specifically, for Peer to Peer lending, CONC 5.5A.5R says:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a borrower 
before:
1. a P2P agreement is made; or
2. the amount of credit provided under a P2P agreement is significantly increased; or
3. a credit limit for running-account credit under a P2P agreement is significantly 
increased.
In addition, CONC 5.5A.11R states that:
The firm must consider:
1. the risk that the borrower will not make repayments under the agreement by their due 
dates (this is sometimes referred to as credit risk); and
2. the risk to the borrower of not being able to make repayments under the agreement 
in accordance with CONC 5.5A.13R (see below).
CONC 5.5A.13R:
The firm must consider the borrowers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
1. as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-
end agreement, within a reasonable period;
2. out of, or using, one or more of the following:
a. the borrowers income;
b. income from savings or assets jointly held by the borrower with another 
person, income received by the borrower jointly with another person or 
income received by another person in so far as it is reasonable to expect 
such income to be available to the borrower to make repayments under the 
agreement; and/or
c. savings or other assets where the borrower has indicated clearly an intention 
to repay (wholly or partly) using them;
3. without the borrower having to borrow to meet the repayments;
4. without failing to make any other payment the borrower has a contractual or statutory 
obligation to make; and
5. without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the borrowers 
financial situation.
In general, Id expect a firm to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a firm to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checksthe lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the cost of the credit is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr As case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Guarantormyloan complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr As loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Guarantormyloan make a fair lending decision?
Did Guarantormyloan act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, Im satisfied Guarantormyloan completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks. I say that because Ive seen evidence that shows Guarantormyloan:
Asked Mr A about his income and expenditure and verified his answers;
Completed a detailed credit check;
Obtained a recent payslip;
Analysed Mr As most recent bank statement.
So I now need to consider whether, based on the information it had, Guarantormyloan made 
a fair lending decision. I accept it calculated Mr A would have had over £500 left after 
repaying his short-term loans and making the loan repayment, but Mr As bank statement 
clearly shows over £1,000 of gambling transactions within that single month. As this was 
more than half of Mr As verified monthly income, I find this should have been a clear 
indication to Guarantormyloan that Mr A was struggling to manage his money and was 
unlikely to be able to sustainable repay his loan.
I acknowledge that Guarantormyloan says Mr A repaid the loan within nine months, but I can 
see he also took out another £3,000 loan shortly before this, as well as two further credit 
cards, with a combined limit of £1,450, earlier in 2019. So I cant conclude Mr As early 
repayment of the loan was an indication that it was affordable to him. It seems to me its 
likely he was repaying one debt with another.
I also accept Guarantormyloan says Mr As complaint was not about the gambling. But Im 
satisfied Mr As complaint was about irresponsible lending and I cant conclude 
Guarantormyloan acted responsibly by approving the loan when it had clear evidence of a 
significant gambling issue.
In summary, taking all the available evidence into account, Im satisfied Guarantormyloan 
was irresponsible to approve Mr As lending. I say that because he wasnt likely to be able to meet his repayments sustainably given his level of gambling, and it seems to me that Mr A 
made his repayments by borrowing elsewhere, notwithstanding that he said the loan was for 
debt consolidation. And, given his level of existing debt and how he was managing it, it 
doesnt seem to me that the loan would help consolidate his debt but rather increase and 
prolong his levels of indebtedness whilst potentially enabling further gambling.
Finally, I note that Guarantormyloan disagrees with the redress recommendation due to the 
nature of the loan agreement. Whilst I acknowledge that it says Mr A paid the capital and 
interest directly to the lenders on its platform, I still find it is Guarantormyloans responsibility 
to compensate Mr A. I say that because I find that Guarantormyloan failed to perform the 
necessary checks to ensure the loan was affordable and so Mr A has lost out as a result of 
the interest he was charged. The redress seeks to put Mr A back in the position he would 
have been in had Guarantormyloan made a responsible lending decision and so it is 
Guarantormyloans responsibility to refund the money. I accept Guarantormyloan says the 
refund is not money it ever received, but that is not a concern for Mr A as he has lost out as 
a result of actions by Guarantormyloan.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Match the Cash Limited (trading as 
Guarantormyloan) should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr A made should be deducted from this capital amount;
oIf this results in Mr A having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement*);
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Guarantormyloan to take off tax from this interest. 
Guarantormyloan must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman