DRN-4233600
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly
turned down their claims including claims they made under sections 75 and 140A of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mr B and Mrs B are represented by a claims management company but Ill refer generally to
anything thats been said on their behalf as if they said it themselves, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B bought a timeshare product from a business (that Ill call C) on 20 December 
2006. The product cost nearly £15,000 and Mr B and Mrs B took out a loan in joint names 
with GE Money to part fund the purchase. Mr B and Mrs B say misrepresentations were 
made by C at the outset and GE Money may be held equally liable with C under section 75 
CCA. They also consider the circumstances gave rise to an unfair relationship between them 
and GE Money under section 140A CCA. Among other things, they feel they were treated 
unfairly during the sale process and pressured into making the purchase. And they say the 
relationship was unfair due to the terms of the timeshare agreement and the loan  and 
things done (or not done) by GE Money and/or C on behalf of GE Money. They also 
consider GE Money failed to check properly if they could afford the loan. 
Mr B and Mrs B contacted GE Money in January 2021, via their representatives, and GE
Money responded shortly after rejecting the claims. GE Money said it didnt retain much
information about the loan - due to the passage of time  but it was repaid on 26 January
2009 and Mr B and Mrs Bs claims were raised too late under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
Mr B and Mrs B didnt think that was fair and they referred the matter to our service. One of
our investigators considered the evidence and he didnt think GE Money needed to do
anything else. He said the claims raised were brought too late under the LA so GE Money
didnt need to consider the substance. And he didnt think there was enough evidence to
show that the loan was unaffordable for Mr B and Mrs B.
Mr B and Mrs B asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for review. Their
representatives made detailed submissions as to why they consider the claims were brought
in time - referring to various English and Spanish laws, Spanish court judgments and section
14A of the LA, among other things. Ive summarised these below:-
Section14A LA applies to extend time because GE Money owed Mr B and Mrs B a
duty of care to ensure that C complied with the law and it was wrong of GE Money to
provide a loan for this sort of timeshare; 
The Timeshare Act 1992 applies to this agreement and (among other things) 
advance payments made by GE Money (in breach of duty) contravene legislation and 
gives rise to an unfair relationship under section 140A CCA; 
Spanish Courts have ruled that points-based and floating weeks timeshares are
null and void - and the UK Courts should reach the same conclusion - if the contract
does not accurately describe accommodation, including the specified time for use;
The timeshare agreement wasnt compliant with UK and European legislation
meaning its null and void, the ombudsman should comment specifically on this and if
the timeshare agreement is null and void, so is the loan - as these are related
agreements under the CCA - which also gives rise to an unfair relationship under
section 140A;
Mr B and Mrs B couldnt have known the agreement was null and void until they
took advice in 2020 so they had three years from then to claim under the date of
knowledge rule and the investigator failed to consider this.
Having considered the evidence available, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. My
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however - I thought this service is
unable to consider some parts of the complaint which fall outside our jurisdiction and Mr B
and Mrs Bs representatives also raised new points after the investigator provided his view.
I considered it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further
submissions (if they wanted to) and I issued my first provisional decision on 9 March 2023. 
This forms part of my final decision and Ive summarised what I said below. 
 
My first provisional decision
I explained that Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wasnt minded 
to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter and I went on to set out why. 
I said where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. In addition I have to take 
account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of 
practice and good industry practice (where appropriate) when I make my decision. I assured 
the parties, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I havent 
thought about it. Ive considered everything thats been said and sent to us but I was going to 
concentrate on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Id already explained (in a separate decision issued to the parties) why this service doesnt 
have jurisdiction to consider the complaints Mr B and Mrs B raised about affordability and 
under section 75 CCA. I was satisfied those claims and claims under 140A CCA are 
separate causes of action however, different considerations apply and I would deal with the 
remainder of the complaint in this decision. 
Among other things, Mr B and Mrs B say there were various acts and omissions by C and 
GE Money that made the relationship between them and GE Money unfair. I was satisfied 
the relevant regulated activity is the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a 
regulated credit agreement and this service has jurisdiction to consider such complaints 
since 6 April 2007. I thought the acts and omissions complained about would have occurred 
at the time of sale and throughout the duration of the loan agreement - from 2006 until 2009 
and I was satisfied we are able to look into the section 140A complaint.
Section 140A CCA
I explained that under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and 
the creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such 
a determination but I thought this is relevant law and I took it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under section140A and I was satisfied the relevant limitation 
period is six years and time starts to run here from the date the credit agreement ended. GE 
Money supplied evidence that indicates this loan was paid off on 26 January 2009. In a letter to this service (dated 14 May 2021) Mr B and Mrs Bs representatives said the loan wasnt 
repaid until 25 August 2011 - but they hadnt provided any evidence of that. 
From the evidence Id seen, I found it likely this loan was settled in 2009 but, even if I 
accepted the loan didnt end until 2011, I was satisfied that Mr B and Mrs B didnt contact GE 
Money about their claim until 2021  which is more than six years later. They didnt bring 
their section 140A claim within the time limits set out in the LA and I didnt think it was 
unreasonable for GE Money to take this into account when it declined their claims.
Additional arguments on limitation
Mr B and Mrs B referred to section 14A LA - which provides for a second period in which a
claim for negligence can be made but I didnt think this provision assisted them in the 
circumstances here. Looking at what happened, when they bought the timeshare and took 
out the finance, I wasnt persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could 
give rise to a claim to which section 14A could apply.
I also considered section 32 LA - which provides (in relevant cases) that the limitation period 
only starts to run from when a claimant discovers fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake 
(or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). Mr B and Mrs Bs representatives 
hadnt set out how this would apply here specifically. And, based on what Id seen, I wasnt 
persuaded that there was any relevant fraud, deliberate concealment or mistake.
I thought about commission that they said might have been paid by GE Money to C for 
arranging the loan  and whether GE Money was obliged to disclose that. GE Money hasnt 
supplied the details of what, if anything, was paid. From what Id seen across the industry, if 
commission was ever paid it tended to less than 10%. I was satisfied GE Money didnt 
breach any duty in making such a payment  nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose 
the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. And I didnt think the levels of 
commission normally paid in this situation were sufficiently high to mean that GE Money 
should have appreciated not disclosing commission to Mr B and Mrs B risked the 
relationship being unfair under section 140A.
I wasnt persuaded that Mr B and Mrs B are able to rely on section 32 LA to extend time and 
Id seen nothing to show that C was acting as agent to Mr B and Mrs B. I didnt think Cs role 
was to make an impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan and C 
didnt need to disclose the fact that it might have received a commission. I thought any 
commission paid was unlikely to be more than 10%. So, even if I was satisfied that Mr B and 
Mrs B could rely on section 32 LA to assist with this part of their complaint, I wasnt 
persuaded its likely a court would conclude that any commission paid created an unfair 
relationship under section 140A.
Mr B and Mrs Bs representatives also referred to the three years from the date of 
knowledge rule. By this I thought they probably meant time limits set out in our rules (known 
as the DISP rules) under which a consumer can make a complaint to a business within six 
years of the event happening - or three years from the time the consumer realised they had 
a reason to complain. The DISP rules apply to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
governed complaint handling - they dont operate to extend the time periods set out in the LA 
 which is the reason GE Money decided to turn down the relevant claims here, Thats why 
Ive considered the operation of the LA and, for the reasons given, I thought the section 
140A claim is out of time under that legislation.
Was the loan voidable?
Mr B and Mrs Bs representatives argued that the timeshare agreement was null and void
which means the related loan was voidable and they want to rescind. If the timeshare
agreement was voidable, I thought it likely the related loan was also voidable on the recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something that could be considered
under a section 140A CCA claim but I thought that claim was brought too late. This could 
also be a freestanding claim in its own right however so I considered it separately.
Mr B and Mrs Bs representatives refer to an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a
Spanish court judgment which (they say) taken together, demonstrate that a timeshare that
provides for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, is a
voidable agreement. I didnt agree that Mr B and Mrs Bs timeshare agreement is voidable. I 
was satisfied the timeshare agreement states that its governed by English law. And I didnt 
think that Spanish law or the Spanish judgment (which relates to a different product, in any 
event) can be applied directly to the question of whether the contract is voidable under 
English law.
Having considered relevant legislation, rules and regulations, I couldnt see anything that 
would have the effect that Mr B and Mrs Bs representatives suggest. I noted a House of
Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners,
said floating week or points based timeshares were basic timeshare models and they
werent described as being problems in and of themselves. I wasnt persuaded that either 
timeshare agreement or the related credit agreement is voidable as suggested (and Id seen 
nothing else that would lead me to this conclusion).
In conclusion
I explained that I thought GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said Mr 
and Mrs Bs claims were brought too late. Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or 
not any claim that they may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the 
LA. But, as far as I could see from the information available, any such claim has most likely 
exceeded the time limits set out in that legislation. I thought it was reasonable to take this 
into account and I wasnt persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Responses to my first provisional decision
GE Money had nothing further to add and Mr B and Mrs B disagreed with my provisional 
conclusions. S supplied more detailed submissions which Ive summarised below.
I was grateful that S confirmed its not stating that the timeshare agreement is void or saying 
that points based or floating weeks timeshares were prohibited from sale under English law 
and it accepted this timeshare agreement is governed by English law. Referring to my 
provisional conclusion that the section 140A claim was likely time barred under the LA, S 
also clarified that it did not mean to refer to the DISP rules when raising the three years 
from the date of knowledge argument - it was referring instead to three years as allowed 
under section 14A LA.
S referred me again to earlier submissions about alleged breaches of The Timeshare
Act 1992 by C and GE Money. S argued that a failure to provide information required by that 
legislation in this timeshare agreement means C committed an offence and the withdrawal 
period is extended from 14 days to 3 months and 10 days during which time no advance 
payment can be made but GE Money made an advance payment to C during this time. S 
submits that making an advance payment within the extended withdrawal period means GE
Money acted in breach of timeshare legislation and it also negligently breached a duty of
care owed to Mr B and Mrs B. 
S went on to say this not only renders the relationship between Mrs B and Mr B and GE 
Money unfair under section 140A but it extends the limitation period for such a claim under 
section 14A LA. S considers the section 140A CCA claim is not time barred therefore 
because time only started to run (under section 14A LA) three years from the date that Mr B and Mrs B became aware of the breach - which was when they approached S for advice in 
2020.
I wasnt persuaded to change my mind but, in light of the detailed new submissions and the 
additional arguments S raised, I thought it was fair to explain why in another provisional 
decision and allow the parties an opportunity to respond (if they wanted to) before I made my 
final decision. I issued a second provisional decision (which also forms part of my final 
decision) and Ive summarised what I said there below. 
  
My second provisional decision
I explained that, having thought carefully about the points raised, I considered the crux of the 
matter is whether time for bringing the section 140A CCA claim can be extended under 
section 14A LA and I wasnt persuaded that it can - for the reasons Id given already and as 
expanded upon below. 
Relevant UK timeshare legislation
S referred to various provisions under UK timeshare legislation - including the Timeshare, 
Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 
Regulations). I reminded the parties that Mr B and Mrs B took out this timeshare agreement 
in 2006 - so the relevant timeshare legislation here is the Timeshare Act 1992 (the 1992 
Act) as amended (following an EU Directive) under the Timeshare Regulations 1997. The 
1992 Act was repealed and replaced (following EU Directive 2008/122/EC) under the 2010 
Regulations which came into force in February 2011. The 2010 legislation does not therefore 
apply to Mr B and Mrs Bs timeshare agreement.
Section 14A LA
I set out the wording of this provision and explained why I couldnt see that GE Money owed 
Mr B and Mrs B the sort of duty of care required in this situation. I was satisfied that the 
claims raised by Mr B and Mrs B here are purely financial - that is, loss which is not 
dependent on personal injury or direct property damage. And this type of loss is not 
generally recoverable in negligence unless (broadly speaking) there has been an
assumption of responsibility by the other party  such as in the provision of professional
services or advice. 
I thought GE Money had an obligation to supply sufficient information about the finance in 
order to enable them to decide if they wanted to take out the loan but Id seen nothing to 
show GE Money took on a higher obligation  by providing advice, for example. And I wasnt 
persuaded that a duty of care arises to which section 14A would apply. I was satisfied that 
GE Money wasnt required to supply information in connection with the timeshare agreement 
itself. The requirement to provide information was in connection with the loan agreement - 
not any associated purchase. 
I thought S also seemed to suggest that GE Money had a relevant duty of care because it 
was required to protect borrowers from purchasing timeshare products/entering into 
timeshare agreements that didnt comply with relevant legislation. I wasnt satisfied that this 
timeshare agreement was non-compliant but, even if I accepted that it was, I saw no 
grounds to find GE Money was required to ensure that any such agreement complied with 
the relevant legislation. I thought an obligation like that would require a level of due diligence 
thats not generally required of a lender in this situation and Id need some compelling 
evidence to show that its likely GE Money assumed such responsibility in these particular 
circumstances. Id seen nothing to suggest thats the case - and I wasnt persuaded its 
likely.
S states that GE Money itself was in breach of relevant timeshare legislation bymaking an advance payment within the withdrawal period and this breach of legislation
amounts to negligence. By this I think S is referring to Regulation 10 of the 1997 
Regulations. I was satisfied that GE Money wasnt the offeror here so, even if I accepted 
the withdrawal period was extended as suggested, I wasnt persuaded that GE Money 
breached the relevant legislation by making any advance payment.
I explained its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim against C or GE Money has 
expired under the LA. But, as far as I could see, any section 140A claim is likely to have 
been made outside the relevant time limit and I was unable to fairly require GE Money
to take any steps to put things right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S provided a detailed response to my second provisional decision running to 21 pages with 
several documents annexed. I have considered these submissions carefully but Im not 
going to repeat everything that S said here. I think S makes a number of points that have 
been raised previously, Im satisfied Ive dealt with those already and nothing thats been 
supplied since has persuaded me to change my mind. 
Im grateful to S for clarifying that it accepts C was the offeror under the 1992 Act (as I said 
in my provisional decision) and responsibility for ensuring compliance with the legislation 
rested directly with C not GE Money. S goes on to disagree with my interpretation of 
sections 140A CCA, 14A LA and the 1992 Timeshare Act in particular - as far as this 
legislation relates to Mr B and Mrs Bs claim  and seeks to address the specific merits of 
their section 140A claim. For the reasons Ive given already, I remain satisfied that claim is 
out of time under the LA so GE Money didnt have to deal with the substance. 
I realise S considers time should be extended under section 14A LA  it says Mr B and Mrs 
Bs claim is not purely financial  it relates to a timeshare purchase so it is property related. 
And there is an assumption of responsibility by C who was GE Moneys agent (under section 
56 CCA) and the negligent party that sold the timeshare to Mr B and Mrs B. Im not 
persuaded by these arguments however - I think S is confusing the role of section 56 CCA in 
an assessment of unfairness under section 140A with the grounds to extend time under 
section 14A LA. And, for the reasons explained already, I remain of the view section 14A 
does not apply in the circumstances here.  
S has also made reference to a decision made by another ombudsman - which was 
considered recently by the courts. Im satisfied that wasnt concerned with limitation and it 
involved a different type of timeshare to the one Mr B and Mrs B purchased here. And Im 
not persuaded the outcome of that other decision impacts on what I have to consider in this 
case.  
Ive dealt with Ss arguments (insofar as theyre material and relevant to my reaching a fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint) and, for the reasons set out, I remain of the view 
this claim was brought too late under the LA. Nothing thats been said or sent to us has 
persuaded me to change my mind. Im satisfied that section 14A doesnt apply in these 
particular circumstances. I consider any section 140A claim is likely to have been made 
outside relevant time limits and its reasonable to take that into account. It follows I cant 
fairly require GE Money to do anything further. 
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr B and Mrs B and Im sorry if 
they feel let down. Theyre not obliged to accept what Ive said however - in which case it remains open to them to pursue this matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman