DRN-2912843
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are complaining that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold them a whole of life 
assurance policy in August 2000. They say the policy wasnt explained properly.
What happened
In August 2000, Mr and Mrs F applied for a new whole of life assurance policy, with a sum 
assured of around £48,000. This was arranged following a review of an existing whole of life 
plan  and gave them the opportunity to maintain or increase the amount of life cover they 
had without the need for further medical evidence.
Mr and Mrs F stopped paying premiums in June 2005 and, as a result, the new policy was 
made paid-up in August that year. The underlying value of the units in the policy was 
enough to continue paying for their life cover until early 2019, at which point the policy 
lapsed.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy. Mr F thought theyd been told that when they retired theyd be 
able to stop paying into the policy but the cover would continue. He said no one had 
explained that once the policy was made paid-up, the value of the policy would be used to 
maintain the sum assured and that it would run out over time. And he said if hed known this 
he and Mrs F would have surrendered the policy at the time it was made paid-up. So, he felt 
theyd been misled.
Mr F complained to Phoenix Life but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said the 
arrangement of the policy in August 2000 had been on a non-advised basis  and that Mr 
and Mrs F had been provided with enough information to understand how the policy would 
operate. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint but said he didnt think Phoenix Life had done anything wrong. He said he 
couldnt say what had been discussed in 2000. But he noted Phoenix Life didnt have a sales 
team when the policy was arranged so it would have been a non-advised sale. And he said 
he thought the policy documents were clear about how the policy would operate. 
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the policy was arranged following a 
visit to his and Mrs Fs home by an adviser, so he thought it had been an advised sale. And 
he said this adviser had given advice about the policy but hadnt explained how the paid-up 
aspect would work. Mr F asked for an ombudsmans decision  so its come to me.
This complaint followed a previous complaint about the same policy. In that previous 
complaint Mr F said Phoenix Life had told him over the phone that they could pay an amount 
out to him, but then when he called back a couple of days later they said that had been an 
error and the policy had lapsed. That previous complaint has been resolved so Im not 
considering those issues in this decision  Im focussing on the sale of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be disappointing for Mr and Mrs F, Im not upholding their 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr F thinks the whole of life policy wasnt properly 
explained to him in August 2000. Phoenix Lifes position is that the policy was arranged on a 
non-advised basis, so all they needed to do was to provide enough information for Mr and 
Mrs F to make an informed decision. They feel theyve done this.
It seems theres some confusion about what led to the policy being arranged. Mr F says it 
was as a result of a financial adviser coming to his house. But Phoenix Life have explained 
the context in more detail. Theyve said:
Mr and Mrs F held an existing reviewable whole of life assurance policy.
In mid-2000, Phoenix Life wrote to Mr and Mrs F about their review of that policy  
they said the sum assured would need to reduce from £150,000 to just over 
£100,000. 
In the same letter, Phoenix Life offered Mr and Mrs F the opportunity of taking out 
additional life cover, under a new policy, to make up for the reduction in the sum 
assured of the original policy. 
Mr and Mrs F called Phoenix Life in mid-July 2000 to ask them to send the 
paperwork for the new policy  and Phoenix Life sent this out on 14 August. The 
covering letter for the paperwork clearly states that no advice is being given. 
Mr and Mrs F signed the direct debit mandate for the new policy on 23 August 2000 
and returned the documents to Phoenix Life.
Phoenix Life have also explained that they made the decision to stop providing financial 
advice in early 2000, and Ive seen copies of letters they sent around that time to Mr and 
Mrs F explaining theyd no longer be providing financial advice. 
Ive also seen the employee record of the adviser Mr F said visited his home  the record 
shows that this adviser transferred to a different firm in March 2000. So Im satisfied the 
adviser wasnt representing Phoenix Life in August 2000.
I cant be sure of what happened around August 2000 when Mr and Mrs F decided to take 
out this policy. But from everything Ive seen, Im persuaded that Phoenix Life didnt give any 
advice in relation to the policy. Its possible Mr and Mrs F spoke to a financial adviser from a 
different business around this time, but I cant hold Phoenix Life responsible for what that 
financial adviser might have said.
Because Im satisfied the policy was arranged on a non-advised basis, the only remaining 
consideration is whether or not Phoenix Life gave Mr and Mrs F information which was clear, 
fair and not misleading  so that Mr and Mrs F could make informed choices.
Ive reviewed the documents sent to Mr and Mrs F in August 2000. The Summary of Main 
Policy Features clearly explains that premiums are payable throughout the lifetime of the 
lives assured. It adds that if premiums are not paid, the policy will become paid-up, or be 
terminated. And it points to clause 3 of the terms and conditions which explains that a paid-
up policy will lapse when the policy charges exceed the value remaining fund. Im satisfied 
that these documents are clear the premiums should be paid for life  not just until retirement. And Im satisfied the documents explain what happens when premiums arent 
paid. 
I can see Phoenix Life wrote to Mr and Mrs F after they stopped paying premiums. This letter 
referred to the policy conditions and also explained what Mr and Mrs F needed to do to 
reinstate the policy. So Im satisfied Phoenix Life gave clear information to Mr and Mrs F at 
this time and Mr F could have chosen to reinstate the payments or to call Phoenix Life to 
discuss other options.
Taking everything together, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Fs policy was arranged on a non-
advised basis. And Im satisfied Phoenix Life gave Mr and Mrs F enough clear, fair and not 
misleading information to make informed decisions.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about Phoenix Life 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman