DRN-2667898
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) are turning off 
internet banking for credit cards.
What happened
Virgin announced they are turning off internet banking for their credit cards. Customers will 
need to use mobile banking to access information - using a smart phone.
Mrs P complained. Virgin didnt give a precise date for the change. She doesnt have a smart 
phone and doesnt want or need one. So, she wont be able to get information about her 
Virgin credit card  such as balances and transactions  that she used to get on her desktop 
PC. She says Virgin are discriminating against over 65s  as many of them dont have a 
smart phone. 
Virgin said the online service was being turned off in January 2021. After then, the Virgin 
Money Credit card app gives access to balances, transfers, payments, statements, and PIN 
information. If customer cant use mobile banking, they can use telephone banking and /or 
paper statements. They said theyd arrange to send paper statements to Mrs P.
Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said Virgin advised customers 
about the changes in November 2020. She listened to the call Mrs P made to Virgin  they 
explained she could use telephone banking  for balances, payments, transaction 
information - and paper statements. Virgin had arranged for Mrs P to get paper statements. 
So  theyd explained the options to Mrs P and discussed them with her. So, she felt that 
theyd acted fairly.
Mrs P requested that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Mrs P is coming from. She liked using internet banking on her desktop PC  
and this gave her all the information she needed about her Virgin credit card. Virgin have 
now turned off internet banking for their credit card. And she doesnt want to buy, or use, a 
smart phone to get the information she wants. She says a lot of over 65s will probably be of 
the same opinion. She said there wasnt a precise date for turning off internet banking.
Ive thought about what Mrs P, and Virgin have said. The main point here is that we are a 
dispute resolution service  we dont, and cant, tell businesses what services they should 
(or shouldnt) offer, or when they should (or shouldnt) make changes. Those are commercial 
decisions for them to make. Im afraid that whether to provide internet banking for their credit 
cards comes under that umbrella. So, we cant ask Virgin to do something different here. 
I can also see that they advised customers about what was to happen in November 2020  
which I think is enough time for them to make any changes in their banking habits. Virgin 
didnt provide an exact date for the switch  just that it would be in January 2021 - but in the 
circumstances, I dont think thats unreasonable. 
I can see that Virgin have discussed with Mrs P that she can use telephone banking to get 
the information she needs, and theyve also arranged for her to get paper statements. Mrs P 
has told us that the information she gets this way isnt as good as using internet banking  
and I appreciate that. But - theyve tried to give her alternatives, which seems reasonable to 
me. Now theres been time for her to use these, I hope she feels happier with them.
I understand that other accounts with Virgin arent affected by the changes. Mrs Ps also told 
us that she has accounts with other banks  and its a free market, so if Mrs P really feels 
that she needs to manage her credit card with internet banking, there are of course many 
alternatives she could look at to see if they suit her better.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman