DRN-4271399
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc has treated him unfairly about a chargeback for some 
flights he booked through a website.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr B used his debit card to book non-refundable connecting international 
flights through a website with airlines. Soon afterwards he was informed via email that the 
first flight had changed, making getting the connecting flight impossible. The email said he 
could apply for a refund if it was available. Later he received a second email offering 
alternative flights which involved a significant stay at the connecting airport which Mr B 
considered unsuitable. So he complained to the website but was unsuccessful in getting a 
refund. So he took his dispute with the website to Lloyds.
Lloyds raised a chargeback and temporarily credited the flight costs (over £1300) to Mr B. 
The website defended the chargeback saying it had provided the service it was meant to. It 
also pointed to the non-refundable nature of the tickets and that the agreed terms and 
conditions meant it wasnt responsible for the provision of the flights. So Lloyds reversed the 
temporary credit for the cost of the flights. Mr B felt this was unfair and complained. But 
Lloyds said it had treated him fairly. So Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly. Mr 
B didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clearly Mr B feels that the website has treated him unfairly. But the website isnt within this 
Services remit for the provision of services it provides. This decision is only about whether 
Lloyds treated Mr B fairly as Lloyds is in our remit for how it treats such disputes. I hope Ive 
made this key distinction clear.
chargeback
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr B did 
here, Lloyds (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I dont 
think Lloyds couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr B didnt properly authorise the 
transaction, given that Mr B said he did make the payment.
The chargeback process is run by the card scheme and not Lloyds. The scheme has set out 
rules for how the dispute progresses allowing Lloyds and the merchant time to respond to 
each other as evidence is provided and considered. And if the chargeback is pursued to the 
end of the process it is the scheme that has the final decision on the dispute and not Lloyds. 
So Lloyds can pursue a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder as far as it can fairly and not 
get a refund.
Chargeback isnt a consumer right. However this service does consider pursuing a 
chargeback that has a reasonable prospect of success to be good practice. But a card issuer 
doesnt have to raise a chargeback or can stop pursuing the matter at any time if it doesnt 
feel the chargeback has a reasonable prospect of success.
Here Lloyds did raise a chargeback but on receipt of the defence from the website decided 
to not pursue the chargeback further. So the test here is did Lloyds treat Mr B fairly when 
deciding the chargeback no longer had a prospect of success?
The tickets purchased were non-refundable and the website terms and conditions made 
clear that it wasnt responsible for the provision of the flights. So when Mr B used the 
website, by agreeing to the terms, he, in essence, took on a risk around the flights if things 
went wrong.
The websites defence to the chargeback was that it did what it was meant to, it had 
provided the service of introducing the flights to Mr B and hed booked the flights hed 
chosen through its service. It pointed to the confirmation of the booking sent to Mr B as proof 
of it providing the service it was meant to. Lloyds pointed to this when it wrote to Mr B saying 
it was removing the temporary credit from his account.
Mr B points to the email he received in October 2022 which says he has the option of 
applying for a refund. Mr B suggests that he took this to mean he was actually due a refund. 
However the websites email makes clear We will apply for a refund from the airline on your 
behalf. If the airline approves the refund, we will return the funds to your original form of 
payment. So its clear there is no guarantee of getting any refund-its clearly at the 
discretion of the airline. And bearing in mind Mr B bought non-refundable tickets and the 
websites position is clear in its terms and conditions, Im not persuaded this email can be 
reasonably considered to be evidence of a refund being due.
Mr B points to a later email which provides alternative similar flights to that hed booked, but 
these meant a significant amount of time at the connecting airport. I can appreciate Mr B not 
wanting that bearing in mind this was such an important occasion for him. Nevertheless the 
website isnt responsible for that decision not to take the alternative option which it had 
provided, and neither is Lloyds.
Mr B didnt fly on the tickets booked or accept the alternate arrangements. I appreciate the 
flight change made connection impossible. But he was offered alternate arrangements albeit 
after initially being told he could apply for a refund. As there was no refund available in these 
circumstances I dont see why Lloyds should refund him as I dont consider it did anything 
wrong in its approach to chargeback.Ive also considered all the circumstances here and the chargeback reasons available to 
Lloyds. In these circumstances Im not persuaded on balance any of the chargeback 
reasons would have been successful. So Im not persuaded Mr B has lost out due to Lloyds 
approach to chargeback here or its decision not to pursue the chargeback further.
Mr B points to calls he had with the website. He says he was told hed get a full refund. I 
dont think this makes a difference. The terms of what were agreed show no refund was 
applicable in these circumstances. So even if he was told hed get a refund he wasnt due 
such a refund. So although the website may have said this to him its clearly not the case. So 
I see no persuasive reason for Lloyds to make a refund that isnt due here.
Mr B points to a letter he received from an airline about his options in such a scenario. It 
notes that Mr B didnt book direct, with it and that his contract is with your responsible
contractual partner. It also notes hes entitled to options if available. So Im not persuaded 
this letter demonstrates any obligations on the website here outside of the agreed non-
refundable terms. So when he says it says stating I would be entitled to a refund Im not 
persuaded it says that.
Mr B says: This is a case which seems clear-cut: my flight was moved to where it was 
effectively cancelled. (the website) told me I had the option of requesting a refund. I 
requested a refund, which the airline points out I am entitled to when my flight is cancelled. 
(the website) does not provide me with a refund. I dispute the charge, as I have not received 
the service I paid for. I disagree with this summation of the matter. The flight wasnt 
cancelled it was moved making his connecting flight impossible for him to board. He was 
offered by the website the option of requesting a refund if it was available-which it wasnt. 
The airline did not say he was entitled to refund in the email Mr B points to-it said contact the 
party youve a contract with which wasnt the airline itself. And Mr B did receive the service 
the website offered-the advertisement and booking of flight tickets (not the provision of flights 
themselves).
Mr B points to the lack of responsibility that Lloyds seems to have in trying to get my
money back from a vendor who could not provide the contracted service. The website 
provided the contracted service, and it wasnt responsible for the flight changes. It offered an 
alternative which Mr B didnt accept. And no refund was due. So Lloyds did what it should.
Mr B has alluded to taking court action on this matter. As in all instances where parties 
suggest this I provide the same generic advice, that is to take independent legal advice so 
as to make an informed decision on the matters at hand.
I appreciate this isnt the decision Mr B wishes to read. But Lloyds have not done anything 
wrong in its decision not to take the chargeback further. This is because based on the facts 
of the case and the reasons given such a chargeback on balance didnt have a realistic 
prospect of success. So on balance Mr B hasnt lost out due to the decision made by Lloyds. 
As a consequence Mr Bs complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc. It has 
nothing further to do in this dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-ThomasOmbudsman