DRN-2892514
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society havent refunded transactions he says he 
doesnt recognise and didnt make.
What happened
Mr O holds a current account with Nationwide. In late April 2020 there was a series of 
transactions made, totalling over £2,900. These were made online using Mr Os card details, 
and mostly went to other payment service providers
. 
Not all the attempted transactions went through  some were blocked. But Nationwide had 
several phone calls with someone who could pass security using the Nationwide mobile 
application (app), which allowed the account to be unblocked.
Mr O says he noticed these transactions the next day and got in touch with Nationwide. He 
told them that he didnt recognise them and didnt authorise them.
Nationwide looked in to what happened. They found that the mobile app had been set up the 
previous month, using the genuine card and a card reader. Since then Mr O had made 
genuine transaction using that card. The app had been used regularly since it was set up, 
including the time when the disputed transactions were taking place. Since the app was set 
up, Mr Os card had been cancelled and a new one sent to him. This second cards details 
were used to make the transactions. Mr O hadnt used this card online. 
Mr O has said that he didnt use the mobile app. If he was looking to access online banking, 
he wouldve used a web browser. He said nobody else had access to his phone, which is a 
different model from that used to access the app. He said he hadnt shared his online 
banking details, passwords, or card details with anyone. His address registered with 
Nationwide was his mothers.
Nationwide declined to refund Mr O, as they couldnt see how someone else couldve carried 
out the transaction. Unhappy with this, Mr O referred the complaint to our service. He said 
that when he reported the transactions Nationwide told him his app had been cloned, and 
because of the amount they would need to investigate this. 
Our investigator looked in to what happened, and she didnt feel Nationwide had been 
unreasonable. She said it was suspicious that the money that was taken was transferred in 
to Mr Os account the same day the disputed transactions began. She didnt think it was 
likely someone would have been able to set up the mobile app without Mr Os knowledge or 
help and then decide not to use it for almost a month.
 
She accepted that the person Nationwide spoke to on the phone wasnt Mr O. But she also 
thought it was likely this person was acting on his behalf. On that basis she thought the 
transactions were authorised by him and didnt ask Nationwide to do anything further.
Mr O disagreed with this. Because no agreement could be reached the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr O liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Os genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough for Nationwide to hold him liable. I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr O consented to the transactions 
being made.
From the evidence Ive seen I satisfied that its more likely than not Mr O knew and 
consented to the transactions. I say this because:
Setting up the mobile app requires the use of the debit card and a card reader. 
Whoever set it up wouldve needed the genuine card to do so. But Mr O didnt report 
his card as lost until after the mobile app was set up and a genuine card payment 
was made at a Pay at Pump. So, a fraudster would have needed to take Mr Os card 
to set the mobile app up, and then replace it without his knowledge for Mr O to make 
the Tesco payment. Mr O hasnt offered an explanation as to how this couldve 
happened. So, instead Im persuaded its more likely Mr O knew about the mobile 
app being set up.
The transactions were made using the replacement debit card for Mr Os account. 
Hes said this was sent to his mothers address, but there are also undisputed 
payments made using this card, which suggests Mr O was in possession on the card. 
The replacement card had also never been used online, so a fraudster could not 
have stolen his card details online. And I cant see what other opportunity they would 
have had to obtain the details they needed to make the payments. 
Im satisfied that whoever carried out the transactions would need to have access to 
both of Mr Os cards  and to have taken and returned at least one of the cards to 
him. They also needed to know enough banking information about him to set up the 
mobile app, and enough personal information, such as his mothers address, to be 
able to pass security on the phone with Nationwide. This is very unlikely to have 
been someone unknown to Mr O.
Mr O hasnt been able to offer a plausible explanation as to how a third party would 
be able to access this much information about him. Hes said he didnt share his 
details with anyone or record them anywhere.
The mobile app was set up the month before the money which funded the disputed 
payments was transferred to Mr Os account. But if a fraudster had set up the app 
and gained access to Mr Os account I would have expected them to try and commit 
fraud as quickly as possible in case they were detected by the account holder or 
financial institution. For example, on 2 April 2020 the alleged fraudster accessed Mr 
Os account when it held £200, but there wasnt any attempt to make a payment. 
Instead, he alleged fraudster waited until there were two large payments to Mr Os 
account several weeks later. This suggests the mobile app was set up in anticipation 
of these large payments. And the mobile number on the account was changed using the app the day before the transaction  which also suggests the person using the 
app was anticipating something happening on the account. in. But quite how the 
fraudster would know the payments would be made, given that payments of this size 
werent usual for Mr O, remains unexplained. 
Having listened to the phone calls, Im satisfied that its not Mr O who spoke to 
Nationwide. But the person on the calls had access to the mobile app, which Im 
persuaded Mr O helped set up. So, Im persuaded Mr O was likely aware of this 
person and their actions. 
On balance Im satisfied that its more likely than not the transactions were carried out by 
either Mr O or someone with Mr Os authority. It follows that Nationwide are entitled to hold 
him liable for them.
 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman