DRN-3370537
The complaint
The estate of Mr S complains that Phillips & Cohen Associates (UK) Limited sent a letter to 
collect a balance that was higher than the settlement agreed by the debt owner. The estate 
of Mr S also complains that Philips and Cohen failed to send confirmation of outstanding 
balances and tried to collect a payment for an account that had been written off. 
What happened
Phillips & Cohen were managing various debts for different businesses when Mr S passed 
away. Executors for the estate were appointed and contacted Phillips and Cohen to ask for 
information to help settle the estate. 
In May 2020 the estate asked for confirmation of the outstanding balances owed. Phillips & 
Cohen issued figures relating to one account in October 2020 and April 2021. But the 
responses didnt contain details of another debt in Mr S name that Phillips & Cohen was 
managing. 
In October 2020 the estate received an email that a debt C had been approved for a partial 
settlement. In January 2021 Phillips & Cohen contacted the estate on Cs behalf and sought 
to collect the full balance. 
The estate raised further concerns after Phillips & Cohen attempted to collect a debt that 
was originally a credit card. The estate says the original lender had agreed to write off the 
outstanding balance. Phillips & Cohen checked with the current debt owner and didnt agree 
that was the case. 
The executors of Mr S estate complained about various issues with Phillips & Cohen and 
went on to refer the matter to this service. Our investigator reviewed the case but explained 
some of the issues raised were out of time because they werent referred to us within the 
time limits noted in our rules. 
The investigator thought Phillips & Cohen had caused some delays in sending information 
about outstanding balances which was inconvenient for the estate. The investigator asked 
Phillips & Cohen to pay the estate of Mr S £100 for the inconvenience caused. Phillips & 
Cohen didnt accept and sent in a copy of its contact log to show correspondence with the 
representatives of Mr S estate. 
As Phillips & Cohen didnt accept the investigators view, this complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as our investigator has 
already explained why we can only consider some of the issues raised. But I want to assure 
all parties that Ive read and considered everything thats been provided. Im aware of the full 
circumstances behind this complaint, including those that dont fall within the jurisdiction of 
this service. 
Ive looked at the correspondence between the executors of Mr S estate and Phillips & 
Cohen. Im not going to mention every letter, email or call Ive seen. But its clear there was a 
lot of back and forth between the parties involved. Whilst Im not saying all the issues raised 
were caused by Phillips & Cohens actions, I do think it couldve handled the estate of Mr S 
accounts better. 
I note that Phillips & Cohen sought to collect the full debt on one account, despite a partial 
settlement being agreed. I think the estate of Mr S could reasonably expect Phillips & Cohen 
to attempt to collect the most up to date settlement figure. In addition, I agree with the 
investigator that it took longer than necessary to respond with the requested information at 
times. 
Im satisfied the estate of Mr S was caused some inconvenience due to the way Phillips & 
Cohen handled its accounts. As a result, Im going to uphold this complaint and direct 
Phillips & Cohen to pay the estate of Mr S £100. In my view, that figure fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Phillips & Cohen Associates (UK) 
Limited to pay the estate of Mr S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman