DRN-2182239
The complaint
Mr P complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited trading as 
Hargreaves Lansdown (Hargreaves) prevented him from accessing his online accounts 
causing him stress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr P contacted Hargreaves in September 2019 to close his SIPP account but an error 
occurred when Hargreaves were processing this request which resulted in Mr P being 
prevented from accessing any of his accounts online. Mr P was sent a new PIN to reset his 
online details and regain online access.
When Mr P attempted to register using this new PIN, Hargreaves were experiencing an 
online issue which prevented him being able to register for online access. This issue was 
later resolved and Mr P was sent an email confirming this and a new PIN was issued.
A reminder email was sent to Mr P at the end of January 2020 saying that the IT issue had 
been resolved and if he wanted online access to contact them for a new PIN. Mr P contacted 
Hargreaves on 2 March and a new PIN was issued.
When Mr P initially complained to Hargreaves they offered £50 compensation in respect of 
the difficulties he experienced. Mr P rejected this and in their final letter to Mr P in November 
2019, they offered Mr P £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr P rejected this offer and referred his complaint to the service. One of our investigators 
reviewed his complaint but thought that Hargreaves had acted fairly in trying to fix the issue 
and their offer of compensation was reasonable.  Our investigator rejected the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I agree with the view of the investigator for much the same 
reasons and I wont be upholding his complaint.
When reviewing a complaint, the service will look at what happened and what should have 
happened. If a business has made an error or done something wrong, we will look at what 
they have done to put the consumer back into the position they should have been had the 
error not occurred. I think that Hargreaves have attempted to this and I will explain why.
Mr P first contacted Hargreaves to close his SIPP account. This should have been a 
straightforward process but an error occurred which removed online access to all of Mr Ps 
accounts. This is not disputed by Hargreaves and they acknowledge that an error was made.
This initial error was compounded when Mr P tried to regain access using the new PIN that 
Hargreaves had supplied. Hargreaves said that when Mr P tried to register for online access, 
they were experiencing an online issue which prevented Mr P from registering. Again, this 
not disputed by Hargreaves and they acknowledge that an error was made.
Hargreaves have said that when an IT fix was applied, they emailed Mr P to say that a new 
PIN had been issued which should be used to register for online access. It appears that Mr P 
did not attempt to register using this PIN.
Hargreaves emailed Mr P a few months later to say that if he wished online access, he 
should contact them for a new PIN. Mr P did this a month later and received a new PIN.
I think that Hargreaves tried to rectify their initial errors and provided Mr P with enough 
information for him to register for online access. They also noticed that Mr P had not 
registered for online access and sent a reminder saying that the initial problem had been 
fixed. 
In his submission to the service, Mr P says that he had over 40 individual stocks in his 
accounts and it would have been extremely impracticable for him to contact Hargreaves if he 
wished information on these stocks such as pricing information. I sympathise with Mr P on 
this point but I think that it was on this basis that Hargreaves offered the compensation  for 
not having online access to his accounts.
Mr P says online access is vital as his assets could be classed as illiquid and as markets 
move quickly, he needed access to his accounts online. Mr P has given no indication that he 
wished to trade during the period where he was unable to access his accounts online so 
there is no need to calculate any loss of opportunity. Hargreaves said to Mr P that if he 
wished to trade then they were able to deal on his behalf and he would be charged online 
rates.
Mr P has asked that Hargreaves refund his fees as he did not have access to the service 
that he paid for. In their submission to the service, Hargreaves have said that their terms and 
conditions do not guarantee that access to the service will always be available. The terms 
and conditions state:
We cannot guarantee that access to, or trading in, your accounts via the HL website, HL 
mobile application, by telephone or by post will be available at all times or without delay. You 
acknowledge services may be interrupted and the services available may be variable in 
certain circumstances.
Mr P has said in his complaint that Hargreaves could have supported him over the phone 
and he did sign up to the terms and conditions of the service so Im not going to ask 
Hargreaves to do anything else here.
Hargreaves acknowledge that the quality of the service that was provided to Mr P was below 
standard and I agree. They have offered £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused 
by their error. I have not seen any evidence that their error caused any financial loss to Mr P 
and I think that the offer of compensation is reasonable and in line with what the service 
would offer.
The offer of £200 compensation still stands and Mr P should contact Hargreaves if he 
wishes to take up this offer.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman