DRN-2431320
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with RAC Insurance Limiteds actions when attending their car 
under their roadside assistance policy.
What happened
On Friday 23 August 2019 Mr and Mrs W were in Europe, and their vehicle started to display 
a warning light  and after parking up they saw there was a leak from the coolant tank. They 
called RAC under the European cover of their roadside assistance policy and asked for help. 
Mr and Mrs W say after making the call no update was given to them before the mechanic 
arrived  over an hour and a half later. They said he immediately wanted to tow their vehicle, 
rather than trying to fix it at the roadside, and say they were told theyd be taken 20km away 
but no further information was given about where exactly. And when driving the vehicle onto 
his tow truck, the front passenger wheel was driven off the edge. Mr and Mrs W say when 
the mechanic got out to look at whatd happened, he didnt put the handbrake on. That led to 
the vehicle rolling off the van, and Mr W was only just able to stop the vehicle hitting parked 
cars. Mr and Mrs W say the mechanic wasnt too concerned about whatd happened.
At this point Mr and Mrs W said they were worried this seemingly incompetent mechanic was 
going to take them to the middle of nowhere  and wouldnt have known where theyd stay 
the night. They called RAC, said they explained all of the issues, and expected a call back 
the following day. So, having parked up in an appropriate area they stayed there for the night 
 and in the morning realised there was a manufacturers dealership nearby. Having 
discussed matters with them, it was agreed the vehicle would be looked at on the Monday. 
Mr and Mrs W say no call was received back from RAC as theyd expected. 
On the Monday, Mr and Mrs W left their vehicle with the dealership  and understood the 
cost to be around €650 which they updated RAC about. The next day the dealership said 
theyd misquoted the cost, and actually it was €1,150. Mr and Mrs W called RAC, and say 
they found out for the first time they could have been taken anywhere as theyd had a choice 
of where they were towed to initially. And, as theyd taken their vehicle to the dealership 
themselves, there was no more assistance RAC would offer. Mr and Mrs W werent happy 
with this, felt like they didnt get any further help from RAC, lost five days of their holiday, and 
were generally very disappointed with the service theyd been given. So, they complained.
RAC said it didnt contact Mr and Mrs W over the weekend as itd been agreed theyd stay 
where they were for the next two days, and itd find a local garage to do the repairs on the 
Monday  which is when itd then call Mr and Mrs W back. RAC said Mr and Mrs W called 
and told it the dealership would be doing the repairs, so it could close the file it had open for 
them. But then the next day Mr and Mrs W called back asking for repatriation because of the 
increased cost. RAC turned this down  saying the vehicle could be repaired before Mr and 
Mrs Ws planned departure date. RAC say they tried to contact Mr and Mrs W several times 
over the next few days but couldnt reach them. So they contacted the garage who said 
Mr and Mrs Ws repairs had been completed, theyd paid the bill and left.
RAC said because of this, it didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint as itd provided service 
in line with the policy terms. RAC added if Mr and Mrs Ws vehicle has been damaged to 
forward on evidence and itd consider it. It said the policy allows a claim of up to £150 
towards the cost of repairs, as well as any additional camping and taxi costs. RAC asked for 
a form to be completed and returned for this element of things, but say it never received it.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with that response and asked us to look into things. Ive 
summarised the key points as I see them in my own words:
No response has been given about the lack of information provided by the mechanic 
about where they would be taken.
The call back was promised for the Saturday, not the Monday, so RAC are wrong 
about this.
They didnt get RACs calls, voicemail or texts it says it sent.
They found the whole situation distressing but havent even received an apology for 
what happened.
So, they asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so and didnt think RACs 
appointed mechanic had provided Mr and Mrs W with a positive customer experience. He 
said the mechanic had created a dangerous situation, so because of that he felt £150 
compensation together with a refund of the accommodation costs would be fair.
Mr and Mrs W accepted this, but RAC didnt. It said theres no evidence the actions of the 
mechanic nearly caused an accident. And said while it appreciated the call recordings arent 
available, the system notes its provided explain what was said. RAC said Mr and Mrs W told 
them there were problems getting the vehicle on the truck, but nothing else  and if the 
vehicle nearly hit something it would have expected this to be mentioned. RAC also 
disagreed with Mr and Mrs Ws version of events in terms of when contact would be made, 
and what would happen next. And RAC said our investigators recommendation was to pay 
the accommodation, which theyve already offered to do  and £150 compensation. Its this 
RAC didnt agree with, as it didnt think there was any evidence the breakdown service 
wasnt safe or trustworthy. 
Our investigator reiterated his point, but RAC said its point was there was no evidence to 
back up the reason for the compensation. Because of this, the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W raised a number of concerns when making this complaint. Ive not considered 
those in detail because theyve accepted our investigators assessment on all points. RAC 
has confirmed itd already offered the accommodation costs, its the £150 compensation that 
it doesnt agree with. So, Ive focused my review on this.
RAC has explained for reasons outside of its control they cant provide the call recordings. 
Ive seen no reason to doubt that, so I draw no adverse inferences from this. 
RAC has said its call notes are reflective of the conversations had with Mr and Mrs W. 
Mr and Mrs W say what RAC have said about the calls isnt correct. So, in the absence of 
evidence I have to prove what happened, I have to decide what I think is more likely than 
not, based on the information I do have.RAC has specifically pointed out the notes recorded dont make any mention of the vehicle 
rolling off the truck and nearly hitting parked cars. I agree the notes dont, and Id usually 
expect people in Mr and Mrs Ws situation to mention that. But I dont think the notes not 
talking about this can or should automatically mean it didnt happen. I cant rule out RACs 
operative not recording this information  or Mr and Mrs W being so concerned about what 
might happen next, they simply forgot to mention it in the heat of the moment.
Looking at what the notes say, and what Mr and Mrs W have complained about, the majority 
of events seem to match up. There was a breakdown, Mr and Mrs W stayed local to that 
breakdown, they went to the local dealership on the Monday, and again on the Tuesday. So, 
theres lots of similarities. And the discrepancies could be explained away by RACs 
operatives not recording something, a misunderstanding, an issue with the system or Mr and 
Mrs W simply forgetting to mention them as Ive mentioned above. Mr and Mrs Ws 
recollections have been consistent when complaining  and they were the only ones weve 
got evidence from who were present at the time. So, on balance, Im satisfied its more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs Ws version of events is the most plausible. 
Because of that, Im satisfied they were caused distress by the actions of the mechanic, and 
its appropriate for RAC to pay £150 compensation in recognition of that.
In addition, as RAC originally offered, I think its appropriate for it to refund Mr and Mrs W the 
cost of where they stayed as a result of the breakdown.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order RAC Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs W 
£150 compensation, plus the cost of their accommodation as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman