DRN-2759691
The complaint
Mrs H complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim for a 
cancelled holiday under her travel insurance policy. 
Mrs H has brought this complaint on behalf of herself and the other travellers insured under 
the policy  Ms B, Mr D, Ms S, Mr B1, Mr B2 and Mr H. All references to Mrs H include all 
the policyholders. 
What happened
Mrs H booked a holiday in December 2019. She bought a single-trip travel insurance policy,
provided by URV, on 12 March 2020.
Mrs H was due to travel in late April 2020. However, Mrs H cancelled her trip on 17 March
2020 when the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential
travel for an initial period of 30 days due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Mrs H received a refund for one element of her holiday (a cruise), but the travel agent shed
booked with said the cost of her flights were non-refundable. The travel agent said Mrs H
had also incurred charges for the cancellation of a hotel and car hire. So, Mrs H made a
claim for these costs under her policy with URV.
URV said Mrs Hs claim wasnt covered under her policy because Covid-19 was a known
event and the FCO restrictions on travel were not unexpected at the time Mrs H bought her
insurance cover. URV said Mrs H could consider approaching various parties  including her
travel agent  to seek a refund of the money she was claiming for.
Unhappy, Mrs H brought her complaint to the attention of our service. She said URV had told
her the claim would be accepted, and her travel agent had told her its obligations to her had
ceased.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Mrs H was aware
that the FCO was going to advise against travel to her intended destination when she bought 
the policy. However, our investigator said she didnt think Mrs Hs cancellation claim was
covered as she was due to travel outside of the initial 30-day period of restricted travel
announced on 17 March 2020. Our investigator thought, if Mrs H had waited to cancel her
trip, her travel agent wouldve been responsible for refunding her in full if the holiday could
no longer go ahead.
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I 
made my provisional decision in March 2021. In it, I said;
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of Mrs Hs complaint.
URV declined Mrs Hs claim because it said her policy only provides cover for unexpected
and unforeseen events, and it was clear when Mrs H purchased her policy on 12 March
2020 that Covid-19 was a known event and a claim could be expected at that point. I dont
think it was fair or reasonable for URV to turn down the claim on this basis.
When Mrs H bought her policy, no restrictions on travel to her intended destination had been
announced for British nationals  other than for those who had visited or were resident in
certain areas 14 days or less prior to their travel. Id expect any proposed policy exclusions
about Covid-19 to have been made clear to policyholders when buying their policy. URV
hadnt placed any restrictions relating to Covid-19 on the type of cover Mrs H bought on 12
March 2020.
Based on information Ive accessed online, URV didnt introduce any restrictions on cover for
events related to Covid-19 on this type of policy until after Mrs H had purchased her
insurance. If URV considered Covid-19 to be a known event which it didnt wish to insure
against at an earlier point, then it could have chosen to introduce restrictions on the cover it
was offering before it did. In these circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable to
conclude that Mrs H was or should have been aware of the likelihood of further travel
restrictions being introduced before URV changed the terms of the policy it was offering to its
customers.
The terms and conditions of the cancellation and curtailment section of Mrs Hs policy say:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for your proportion
only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid
charges which you have paid or are contracted to payif:
a. cancellation of the whole trip is necessary and unavoidable
as a result of any of the following events occurring:
5. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from,
the country or area you were planning to visit or were staying in, as a result of natural
disasters (such as earthquakes, fires, tsunamis, landslides, floods, hurricanes or
epidemic(s)/pandemic(s)).
Our investigator correctly noted that when Mrs H cancelled her trip on 17 March 2020, the
FCO had only advised against travel for an initial period of 30 days  which didnt extend as
far as Mrs Hs planned departure date.
However, on 14 March 2020, the government at Mrs Hs intended destination announced a
travel ban which included all travellers from the United Kingdom with effect from 16 March
2020, to remain in force until terminated by the president. The claim form which Mrs H sent
to URV says this travel ban was the reason for the cancellation of her holiday. So, Im
satisfied that, at the time Mrs H cancelled her holiday, there was a government directive in
place due to a pandemic which was likely to affect her ability to travel in late April 2020.
This means Im satisfied Mrs Hs claim arose from an event which is insured under her
policy.
However, based on the information which is currently available to me, I dont think I can fairly
ask URV to pay Mrs Hs claim and Ill explain why.
Mrs Hs policy  like most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the market  only provides
cover for irrecoverable costs. This is because insurance is designed to indemnify thepolicyholder only if they are unable to reclaim their losses from any other source. The
reasonable attempts which Id expect a policyholder to make to recover their losses from
other (and from which other) sources varies from case to case, depending on the specific
facts involved.
Mrs H booked flights, car hire, a hotel and a cruise through a travel agent. The travel agent
has confirmed Mrs Hs booking was made with it, and not with each individual party directly
for the different elements of the booking. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Mrs Hs
booking with the travel agent constituted a package holiday under the Package Travel and
Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (the PTR 2018). This means Mrs Hs travel
agent has obligations to provide her with a full refund in certain circumstances.
Generally, these obligations arise in situations where the travel agent has terminated the
package holiday contract. This isnt what happened here  Mrs H contacted the travel agent
to cancel her trip first.
However, the PTR 2018 also include provision for a refund to be provided by a travel agent
in circumstances where a traveller has terminated the package holiday contract due to
unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances occurring at the destination which significantly
affect the performance of the package or the carriage of passengers to the destination.
Other customers of Mrs Hs travel agent may have recovered money through their insurance
policies, but this isnt something thats relevant to my decision as Im only considering the
facts of Mrs Hs specific case. Given the timing of the events in Mrs Hs complaint, I think
theres a reasonable possibility Mrs H may be able to recover some or all of the outstanding
costs she is claiming for from her travel agent under the PTR 2018.
Before I could reasonably ask URV to accept Mrs Hs claim under her travel insurance
policy, I think Mrs H needs to pursue the matter further with her travel agent first. Mrs Hs
travel agent appears to be a member of the Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA).
So, if Mrs H is unhappy with her travel agents refusal to provide her with a refund, she may
be able to complain about this to ABTA and/or any other relevant industry complaint
schemes.
If Mrs H is unsuccessful in recovering her outstanding losses from her travel agent and can
provide evidence that she has made reasonable attempts to do so, its open to her to get 
back in touch with URV so it can consider whether her losses are irrecoverable at that
point. If Mrs H is then unhappy with any decision by URV about the matter, she may wish to
consider bringing a new complaint to our service.
I understand Mrs H says URV told her the claim would be covered. Based on the evidence
Ive seen, URV said it would consider Mrs Hs claim if she couldnt recover her money from
elsewhere and this conversation took place after Mrs H had already cancelled her holiday.
Even if I were to accept that URV had given Mrs H incorrect information about the likely
outcome of her claim, this wouldnt change my provisional findings that it wouldnt be fair or
reasonable to ask URV to accept Mrs Hs claim until she has taken the matter forward with
her travel agent first.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H, but I dont intend to recommend that URV needs to do
anything further.
URV accepted my provisional decision. Mrs H responded to my provisional decision with a 
further email from her travel agent, as well as with a letter from her bank about an 
unsuccessful Section 75 claim for some of the costs of her cancelled holiday.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The comments set out in Mrs Hs travel agents most recent email repeat information which 
was already available to me, and which I took into account, when I made my provisional 
decision. 
I agree that cancellation of a trip due to the advice issued by the government at Mrs Hs 
intended destination is a listed reason for a valid cancellation claim to be made under her 
policy. But Mrs Hs insurance claim is only payable by URV if she is unable to recover the 
costs she is claiming for from elsewhere. 
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (the PTR 2018) 
place an obligation on Mrs Hs travel agent to refund a package holiday booking in certain 
circumstances where the traveller has terminated the contract. Mrs Hs travel agent hasnt 
explained why the provisions of the PTR 2018 dont apply to Mrs Hs package holiday 
booking.
Based on the information available to me and the specific circumstances of Mrs Hs 
complaint, I cant fairly ask URV to pay Mrs Hs insurance claim. Mrs H needs to pursue her 
travel agent (via ABTA, if necessary) for a refund under the PTR 2018 first.
If Mrs H can provide evidence that she has taken these steps and has still been 
unsuccessful in reclaiming her costs, Id expect URV to consider a new claim from Mrs H. 
I understand Mrs H hasnt been successful in making a Section 75 claim. But a Section 75 
claim is an attempt to recover money from a credit provider (not from the travel agent 
directly) and is separate to any obligations which Mrs Hs travel agent has to her under the 
PTR 2018.
So, for these reasons, I wont be changing my provisional decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B, Mr D, Mrs H 
and Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman