The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) transferred an international 
payment to their sons wrong bank account. 
What happened
On 29 March 2019, Mr and Mrs G visited their local branch to send an international payment 
to their son. They had made the same payment two weeks previously so asked for it to be 
sent to the same account. However, the payment didnt reach the account. It was sent to the 
correct recipient  Mr and Mrs Gs son - but it went into an account their son says he is 
unable to access funds from. Mr and Mrs G want the payment returned to them. 
BOS said that although Mr and Mrs G have a joint account each of them has an individual 
profile that is unique to them. The profile will save a record of the recipient details rather than 
the account itself. BOS has said the first payment made was sent using Mrs Gs profile and 
the second one was sent using Mr Gs profile. 
BOS accept that its advisor shouldve checked which profile was used for the previous 
payment, but it also says the screen was turned towards Mr and Mrs G so they could check 
the details before the payment was sent. BOS offered £100 for the inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs G were caused and £8 to cover the cost of their calls. However, BOS didnt accept it 
should refund the payment as the funds did reach the right person but in a different account. 
So, it said this is now a family matter.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Although she thought BOS couldve been 
clearer with regards to how the account worked, she felt its offer of compensation for what 
happened was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They feel the advisor didn't do enough to ensure the payment 
was correct and although Mr G has told us the screen was shown to him, he didnt check it 
as the advisor had said it was being sent to the same account. Mr and Mrs G think it would 
be fair if at least half the transferred payment amount was returned to them. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it 
will disappoint Mr and Mrs G, Im not upholding their complaint and Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs G experienced. BOS has already accepted 
it was responsible for incorrectly identifying what profile was used for the previous transfer. 
DRN-1023074So, the issue here is whether its acted fairly and reasonably in how its offered to put things 
right. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that what 
happened must have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs G and their son. Their son says he 
cant access the amount transferred to him because its gone into an account that had an 
outstanding overdraft - so the funds have been taken to repay that debt. 
Its my role to decide whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a dispute. 
Ive considered that although Mr and Mrs G didnt intend for the funds to go to the account it 
was received into, it was ultimately received by the correct recipient. It hasnt been lost in 
the same way it wouldve been if it was for example taken in a fraudulent transaction or 
transferred to someone Mr and Mrs G didnt know. With this in mind, I dont think itd be fair 
for me to tell BOS to pay Mr and Mrs G the full or even part of the payment it transferred.
I agree BOS couldve been clearer in explaining how the account works. I wouldnt expect Mr 
and Mrs G to have known that the details of the first transfer were saved under Mrs G's 
unique profile and the latter payment was being set up on Mr Gs profile. However, Mr and 
Mrs G were shown the screen and asked to check the details were correct. I understand Mr 
and Mrs G thought the details would be the same as the previous transaction, but they still 
had a duty to check the information. I cant hold BOS responsible for them not doing this.
Ive also taken into account that BOS attempted to recall the payment. It first tried five days 
later but the attempt was unsuccessful as there were insufficient funds in the recipients 
account for the payment to be returned. It tried a second time but again was declined again 
by the recipient bank. So I think BOS did what Id expected it to do in these circumstances. 
Ive assessed whether the level of compensation BOS offered Mr and Mrs G appropriately 
recognises what happened. I appreciate Mr and Mrs G feel strongly about the complaint and 
Ive carefully considered everything theyve said. But Im satisfied BOS did all it could to try 
and recover the funds but ultimately the payment was still received.  And I think £100 plus £8 
for the calls theyve had to make is a fair compensation in the circumstances. So, Im not 
going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman