DRN-1467595
 
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the security questions he was asked when he wanted to set up a 
payment from his account to a credit card.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr G has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what I 
think are the main issues.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr G is unhappy that, after answering some security questions to verify his identity, 
he was asked more questions before NatWest could consider making the transfer he 
wanted to make into one of his credit cards. Mr G says what he was asked wasnt a 
security question but was illegal and for marketing purposes. He also complains that 
after answering some questions NatWest also said he had failed security and the 
transfer couldnt be completed.
Its important that businesses like NatWest have processes and procedures in place 
to try and identify fraud or transactions that arent genuine. Its in the nature of 
processes like these that genuine customers may be inconvenienced by them at 
times, but thats not to say that NatWest shouldnt have them in place or that it 
shouldnt have followed them as it did here.
I recognise Mr Gs frustration not least as he was trying to transfer money into a 
credit card in his name. But its up to NatWest to decide how and when it operates its 
security procedures and what security information it requires and asks for. The 
simple fact is Mr G didnt answer the security questions it asked in ways that satisfied 
NatWest and as a result it wouldnt carry out the transfer he wanted. That doesnt 
seem unreasonable in the circumstances.
Furthermore this service isnt a regulator and we cant require a business to change 
its practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking industry works 
are a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. We also cant determine if the 
questions asked are illegal. Thats a matter for a court.
NatWest acknowledged in its final response that one question asked couldve been 
put to Mr G in a better way. And it awarded him £50 compensation. Taking 
everything into account, including the level of awards we make, I think thats fair. And 
on balance I dont think I can reasonably ask NatWest to do anything more or 
differently.
 For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman