DRN-3388750
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the information he was given about a pet insurance policy by Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) when he took over the policy mid-term. 
RSA are the underwriters of this insurance policy. For the purposes of this decision, any 
reference to RSA also includes the actions of its associated agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr H and RSA. I wont repeat in 
great detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving 
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
This policy was initially taken out in March 2014. Mr H took over the policy in June 2021 and 
contacted RSA by phone to inform them. Both parties are in agreement that the level of 
cover or policy limits were not discussed during that call. RSA say that shortly afterwards 
they sent policy documents, including a policy schedule to Mr Hs address. Mr H says he 
never received any of the paperwork but, on occasion, post hasnt been delivered - as he 
lives in a rural area. 
In November 2021 Mr H contacted RSA to make a claim on this policy. At this point RSA say 
policy cover and limits were discussed. Mr H then raised a complaint that he hadnt been 
provided with this information when he took over the policy. 
RSA partly upheld the complaint. They found that the service offered during the initial call in 
June 2021 couldve been better and they offered Mr H £50. Unhappy with the proposed 
resolution, Mr H referred his complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and she recommended that it not be upheld. Mr H 
disagreed with her recommendations and the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the medical issues that Mr Hs dog has experienced and the associated 
costs of the medical treatment for Mr H. I hope that his dog has made a full recovery. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy 
towards Mr H  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
In a phone call with our investigator, Mr H referred to the price of the premiums against the 
policy benefit. This complaint element wont be addressed in my decision as it wasnt 
addressed by RSA in their final response letter. The financial business must first have an 
opportunity to address any complaint before our Service can formally investigate that 
complaint. Should Mr H remain unhappy about the pricing of this policy, he has the option of 
speaking to RSA about a new complaint. 
Its important to point out here that Mr H took over the policy, rather than took out the policy. 
This is important - as it wasnt a new policy being sold. This was effectively a policy 
amendment. The policy had been running for a number of years and, in June 2021, Mr H 
became the new policy holder and was responsible for paying the premiums under the 
contract of insurance.
Both parties are in agreement that RSA didnt tell Mr H what the policy limit was during their 
June 2021 phone call. This is disappointing to hear. I note that RSA accept their service 
couldve been better during this call and offered Mr H £50 compensation. I consider this offer 
fair and reasonable.
I say this because Im satisfied that RSA did send relevant paperwork afterwards and system 
screenshots support this  including the policy terms and a policy schedule to the address 
they held on file for Mr H. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr H has told us about not receiving 
this paperwork. But RSA didnt receive any notification from the post deliverer - such as a 
return to sender notice. It also wouldnt be reasonable to expect RSA to follow up with every 
customer on whether or not they received paperwork - in the absence of anything to make 
them think otherwise. 
However, some degree of responsibility did rest with Mr H to make contact with RSA when 
he didnt receive the paperwork  particularly if he felt he needed more information to 
determine the policys suitability for his (dogs) needs. In a phone call to our Service, Mr H 
said he didnt chase this up because he didnt expect to receive paperwork and hed taken 
over the policy from someone known to him. He further said not receiving the paperwork 
had gone out of his mind and he didnt think about it. I cant hold RSA responsible for this 
as - although they couldve delivered better service during the phone call with Mr H, they did 
send the information afterwards. Mr H not receiving the post was unfortunate, but I cant hold 
RSA at fault for this or for him not following up with them.
Mr H has referred to wanting RSA to improve their customer communication and information 
for all customers. Whilst I cant direct them on or how to communicate, I do hope that theyll 
learn from Mr Hs experience here. 
In summary, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont find that RSA need to do 
anything further to put things right. I know my decision will disappoint Mr H, but it brings to 
an end what our Service in trying to informally resolve his dispute with RSA - can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman