DRN-4217673
The complaint
Mr A complains about TSB Bank plc.
He says that TSB didnt do enough to help him when he became the victim of a scam and 
would like TSB to refund him the money he has lost as a result.
What happened
In 2021, Mr A was contacted through Facebook messenger by an individual called A. 
Initially, A expressed an interest in beginning a romantic relationship and spoke with Mr A for 
several months.
After this time, A began to discuss her experience investing in cryptocurrency and presented 
herself as an expert in this area to Mr A.
Mr A was persuaded to invest, making an initial payment to B, a crypto currency exchange 
on 23 April 2021, followed by eight further payments. In total, Mr A paid £40,890.
Unfortunately, A was a scammer. Mr A discovered that the money he had paid had been lost 
 and he had been blocked from making contact with A.
Mr A contacted TSB for help, but it told him that as he had authorised the payments, he was 
liable for the loss. Mr A made a complaint, he said it should have done more to protect him.
TSB didnt uphold the complaint, so he brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into things and said that Mr A was an innocent victim of a scam, 
which TSBs fraud guarantee says is covered. And that there wasnt anything in the 
guarantee that said scams, where the funds were initially transferred to a third-party account 
(such as a crypto wallet), wouldnt be covered.
TSB didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said its guarantee is clear in that 
the customer would need to be an innocent victim of fraud on their TSB account to be 
covered under the guarantee and in this particular case, Mr As loss stemmed from a crypto 
wallet. It said Mr A made a payment to a legitimate account and the funds were received by 
the intended beneficiary. So, there was no loss on the TSB account and its fraud guarantee 
doesnt apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether the money Mr A has lost should be covered under 
TSBs fraud guarantee and whether TSB has treated Mr A fairly and reasonably. 
Ive considered what both sides have said carefully. Having done so, I believe TSB should 
refund Mr A the amount he lost as a result of this scam. Ill explain why in more detail below:
Mr A says he was the innocent victim of fraud on his account which TSBs guarantee says is 
covered. Hes explained the scammer persuaded him to make payments out of his TSB 
account to a crypto wallet from which the money was lost. 
TSB disagrees. It says for its guarantee to apply, the fraud must happen on its customers 
account and there can be no intervening transfer between Mr As account and the 
scammers. It says the loss didnt occur on Mr As account  it occurred when the funds were 
transferred on from the crypto wallet.  
TSBs website explains that its fraud guarantee, which was in place at the time of the scam, 
is a first in UK banking and it goes further to cover TSB customers against fraud than 
anything that has come before it. TSBs website explains that if a customer is clearly an 
innocent victim of fraud on their account, the money lost will be refunded  even if the 
customer makes an honest mistake. And Ive seen on the TSB website there is a reference 
to the range of cover the fraud guarantee provides when compared to what is offered by 
other banks:
How is the TSB Fraud Refund Guarantee different to what other banks offer?
At the moment, there are certain times where banks are legally obliged to refund customers, 
however even these have loopholes. Our guarantee covers customers who are clearly 
innocent victims of fraud on their TSB account.
After reading TSBs website, Im satisfied that what happened to Mr A should be fairly and 
reasonably covered under its guarantee. Thats because the wording of TSBs guarantee 
implies that you will be covered if youre an innocent victim of fraud on your account (which 
Im satisfied Mr A was) unless any of the exclusions apply.
So, after considering the wording of TSBs fraud guarantee, I believe its intention is to refund 
innocent victims of fraud  and Mr A is clearly an innocent victim here. A scammer contacted 
him to defraud him of the money that was in his TSB account. So, its clear to me the scam 
took place on Mr As TSB account as the intention was to remove all the money the 
scammer could obtain from his TSB account by telling Mr A to send the money to the crypto 
wallet and then on to the scammer - likely in the knowledge that this was more likely to be 
successful. 
TSB hasnt raised any of the exclusions in its guarantee as a reason for declining Mr As 
claim here because it doesnt think the fraud happened on Mr As account. But Ive 
considered the exclusions or times where the guarantee doesnt apply section of the 
guarantee anyway. 
The exceptions explain that the guarantee doesnt apply where Mr A is involved in 
committing the fraud or if he has abused the guarantee by deliberately ignoring account 
safety information and/or making repeated claims. It also doesnt apply where Mr A has a 
dispute with a genuine merchant about goods or service. After considering these exclusions, 
Im satisfied that Mr As situation doesnt apply to any of them. 
I understand the point TSB is making here that the money wasnt sent directly to the 
scammer in this instance, but I dont consider the wording of its fraud guarantee to be clear 
enough to exclude such a common technique used by scammers. I believe that a 
reasonable person would consider Mr As loss to be covered under the fraud guarantee as it stands. And if TSB wants to exclude this common type of scam, then it should be more 
specific, within its fraud guarantee, about what is and isnt covered
Putting things right
Im satisfied Mr As loss should be fairly and reasonably covered under TSBs fraud 
guarantee. So, it should refund him the total amount of payments lost to the scam.
I calculate this to be £40,890.
TSB should also pay Mr A 8% simple interest from the dates of the payments until payment 
is made to Mr A (less any lawfully deductible tax). 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint TSB Bank plc should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman