DRN-3179426
The complaint
Mr, Mrs and Miss S have complained that ERGO Reiseversicherung (AG) (ERGO) unfairly 
declined their claim when they couldnt take a trip due to storm disruption at their destination.  
What happened
At the end of 2019, Mr and Mrs S and their daughter (Miss S) were due to travel to New 
Zealand.  They booked flights and arranged insurance cover with ERGO.
Unfortunately, in the days immediately before they were due to travel, heavy rain in New 
Zealand resulted in significant flooding and damage to roads.  When Mr S checked, he found 
that theyd be unable to reach their final destination.  So the family made the decision not to 
leave the UK.
Mr S was able to cancel most of the familys arrangements at no cost.  But he only received 
a partial refund on the cost of the flights.  So he submitted a claim to ERGO on behalf of all 
three of them for the balance.
ERGO declined the claim.  They said costs resulting from cancellation were only covered in 
certain scenarios  of which this wasnt one.  When Mr S said he was unhappy with that 
decision, ERGO provided him with the contact details to raise a complaint.  
Mr S didnt receive a reply to his complaint  so he brought it to our service.  He told us he 
thought the family should be covered under the section of the policy that covered 
abandonment due to severe weather conditions.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded ERGO didnt need to do anything 
more to resolve it.  He explained our role was to decide if a business has applied the terms 
of a policy fairly when a claim is made.  He thought ERGO had done that in this case.  
The investigator considered Mr Ss view that the family should be covered under the 
abandonment section of the policy. He noted the term referred to severe weather 
conditions delaying the start of a trip from the UK  which wasnt what happened here. So he 
didnt think it was fair to say ERGO should provide cover under that term.
Mr S (on behalf of the family) didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr, Mrs and Miss Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand the familys frustration.  Its clear from what Ive read that theyd been planning 
their trip for a long time.  And theres been no opportunity to re-book it since.  Mr S has 
referred to ERGOs decision to decline cover as not being in the spirit of a travel insurance 
policy.
But thats not what Im considering.  My role is to look at the terms of the policy and decide 
whether I think ERGO have applied them reasonably.  So Ive started by reading the relevant 
terms and exclusions.
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis  which means its up to Mr, Mrs and Miss S to 
review the terms and decide if they provide the cover they want.  As our investigator 
explained, policies dont cover every possible eventuality and its usual for certain events to 
be excluded.
As ERGO explained when they wrote to Mr S, the policy provides cover for cancellation in 
nine different circumstances  none of which apply in this case.  And there are a number of 
exclusions from the cover, two of which I think are relevant.  The exclusion reads:
We will not pay for:
.
10. Your disinclination to travel.
.
13. any claim arising from a Catastrophe.
A Catastrophe is defined in the policy as an avalanche, explosion, fire, flood, hurricane, 
lightning, storm or tempest.
Im satisfied its reasonable to say the weather conditions described by Mr, Mrs and Miss S 
fall within that definition.  So it was reasonable for ERGO to apply that exclusion to their 
claim.
And Im satisfied their cancellation of the trip can reasonably be categorised as disinclination 
to travel.  I appreciate the journey would not have been straightforward.  But the familys 
flights to New Zealand hadnt been cancelled  so it would have been possible to travel.
Ive thought about Mr Ss comments that the family should be covered under the terms 
dealing with abandonment of a trip.  The relevant section says:
If the start of Your pre-booked outward journey by aircraftis delayed, due to:
1
2. severe weather conditions;
3.
and it is necessary for You to have to cancel Your outward trip (out of the UK) as a result of 
a delay lasting more than 24 hours, We will pay the cost of Your journey less any amounts 
that are refundable.
The term requires the policyholder to have checked in  which Mr, Mrs and Miss S did.
But I dont think their situation falls within this term.  Its clear that outward trip is the trip out 
of the UK  which wasnt cancelled or delayed.  And so Mr, Mrs and Miss S wouldnt have 
been able to provide the evidence to support a claim under this section, because the policy 
requires written confirmation of the length of any delay to their journey.  And there was none.Im pleased to note that Mr, Mrs and Miss S received refunds for the other elements of their 
trip, as well as part of the flight costs.  But I dont think it was unreasonable for ERGO to 
decline their claim for the balance.  And I wont be asking them to do anything more to 
resolve Mr, Mrs and Miss Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr, Mrs and Miss Ss complaint about 
ERGO Reiseversicherung (AG).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S, Miss S and 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman