DRN-2183045
The complaint
Mr F says Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He says he was 
unable to reduce the amount he owed Provident as his loans were refinanced all of the time. 
And Provident didnt look into his circumstances properly. He thinks it shouldnt have lent to 
him. 
What happened
This complaint is about eight home collected loans Provident provided to Mr F between 
October 2012 and June 2017.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 24/10/2012 £800 52 29/05/2013
2 24/05/2013 £1,000 63 10/12/2013
3 06/12/2013 £1,500 63 30/12/2014
4 02/05/2014 £600 63 30/12/2014
5 29/12/2014 £2,100 63 28/07/2015
6 06/07/2015 £1,000 110 01/11/2018
7 23/07/2015 £2,500 84 07/06/2017
8 02/06/2017 £1,600 52 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought Provident shouldnt have 
approved loans 4 to 8. Provident didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion. As no 
agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint 
in part and have explained why below.
Mr F didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr F had with Provident. 
So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 to 8 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Providents 
lending history with Mr F, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Provident should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Provident should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Fs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Provident ought to have realised Mr F was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably.  Mr F had been indebted to Provident for over 18 months. So 
Provident ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr F was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his 
finances and that his indebtedness was unsustainable.
Mr F was provided with a new loan a very short time after settling a previous one. At 
times I can see he had more than one loan running at the same time. 
Mr F didnt make any real inroads to the amount he owed Provident. Loan 8 was 
taken out just under 5 years after Mr Fs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr F 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Provident over an 
extended period.I think that Mr F lost out because Provident continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr F borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 8 and Provident should put things right
Putting things right
Provident shouldnt have given Mr F loans 4 to 8.
If Provident has sold the outstanding debts Provident should buy these back if Provident is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Provident are not able to buy the debts 
back then Provident should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
A) Provident should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Provident has already refunded.
B) Provident should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr F 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Provident should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr F as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr F having made 
overpayments then Provident should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Provident should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr F. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Provident should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F. Provident shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Provident has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Fs borrowing for loans 4 to 8 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Provident should remove these loans entirely from Mr Fs credit 
file. Provident does not have to remove loan 8 from Mr Fs credit file until it has been repaid, 
but Provident should still remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to deduct tax from this interest. Provident 
should give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax Provident has deducted, if they ask for 
one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman