DRN-4191069
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Ltd (C&G) renewed his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a pet insurance policy with C&G which was due to renew on 20 February 
2023. Under the policy he was covered for vet fees of £8,000 a year.
On 21 January 2023 C&G sent Mr S a renewal notice. The premium quoted had increased 
from £25 a month to £29.94. 
Mr S spoke to C&G a few days later as he wasnt happy with the renewal premium. C&G 
refused to reduce the premium leading Mr S to make a complaint about that. C&G wrote to 
Mr S explaining that his dogs age was the biggest influence on the price but other factors 
might apply such as inflation, location, breed and claim history. It told him how to opt out of 
renewal if he should decide to do so.
Mr S contacted C&G on 20 February after receiving notification that the policy had renewed. 
He said he was still in the process of disputing the amount of the premium and complaining 
about C&Gs service. He thought he should continue to pay the existing price until that had 
been resolved.
C&G replied the same day to say that as Mr S hadnt opted out of renewal, the policy had 
been renewed and would continue at the higher premium if the policy remained in force. 
In the renewal notice sent in January C&G referred to cover for vet fees of £8,000 a month. 
On 8 March it apologised for that mistake and said the cover was £8,000 a year. Mr S said 
he would like to accept the offer of cover of £8,000 a month at the price quoted as that would 
justify the price increase. C&G refused and said the original renewal terms applied except 
that the cover was £8,000 a year.
As C&G didnt change its decision, Mr S brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He didnt think C&G had treated Mr S 
unfairly.
As Mr S didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Ill focus on what 
I see as the central issues in order to resolve this complaint.
With regard to the premium increase, its important to realise its not the role of this service to 
tell a business what to charge for the risk its insuring. As a result, Im not able to make a 
decision on whether the premium charged by C&G on renewal was excessive as its entitled 
to charge Mr S whatever premium it considers reasonable. The main reason for the increase 
was his dogs age but other factors such as inflation, location, breed and claim history also 
influenced the price. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S has been treated 
differently from any other policyholder in a similar situation with regard to the amount of his 
premium increase. That means I cant say that C&G acted unfairly when it determined the 
premium on renewal.
In the renewal notice C&G told Mr S:
Your policy will renew automatically, so you dont have to worry about filling out any forms.
Please be aware that youll get an email confirming the end of your previous direct debit in 
the next 30 days. You dont need to do anything, youll get a new direct debit confirmation 
email after your renewal date.
If you want to check or change your policy, or opt out of renewal, you can do this in your 
dashboard.
This was in line with the terms of the policy which said under the heading Renewing and 
adjustments to your policy:
Your policy is a yearly contract of insurance with no guarantee we will offer a new contract 
each year. If we offer to renew your policy we may change the premium, amend your policy 
terms and conditions, the excess and the cover limits.
If we hold current and valid payment details for you and we offer to renew your policy your 
policy will automatically renew.

If you do not want your policy to automatically renew you must tell us.
There was more detail given about how to opt out of the automatic renewal in the online chat 
between Mr S and C&G.
At the time Mr Ss policy renewed, he still had an outstanding complaint with C&G. However, 
that didnt mean that he was entitled to have his policy renewed at the previous years 
premium. I think C&G had made it plain to Mr S that his policy would automatically renew at 
the new premium rate unless he took action to stop it. It also told him how to stop the 
renewal from going ahead. Since Mr S took no action to stop the renewal, I dont think C&G 
has treated him unfairly by renewing the policy and charging the increased premium 
previously quoted to him.
Mr S is also unhappy that C&G didnt tell him he could reduce the amount of cover in order 
to reduce his premium. In the section of the policy quoted above C&G goes on to say:
You are free to amend your policy product type (either increase or decrease coverage) at 
any stage during the policy year. Please note that any changes will take effect after 10 days 
and an additional premium or a refund of premium may be due.
It also told him in the renewal letter he could check or change his policy by going into his 
dashboard. It may be that Mr S didnt realise the significance of this statement. But I think its 
reasonable to look at this as an invitation for him to review his cover. I think most 
policyholders would understand that they pay less if their cover is downgraded. So I think 
C&G did enough to point this out to Mr S.C&G has accepted it made a mistake in offering in the renewal notice cover of £8,000 a 
month for vet fees. Its not clear what financial loss Mr S suffered as a result of this mistake. 
Theres no evidence that this level of cover was important to him. I accept that he might have 
shopped around but theres no mechanism we can use to find out what the market would 
have quoted Mr S at the time of renewal and whether he could have got better terms from 
another insurer. So theres no evidence of a quantifiable loss to Mr S from him having being 
quoted the incorrect level of cover in the renewal notice, although I appreciate that such a 
mistake can be annoying for policyholders.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman