DRN-4318317
The complaint
Mr D complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited, trading as Pockit, restricted and closed 
his account and returned all the money held in it to the source accounts.
To put things right, Mr D wants Pockit to return his funds and pay compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
What happened
Following a review, Pockit restricted Mr Ds account in August 2020. Later, in 
December 2020, Pockit asked Mr D for proof of entitlement to the funds held in his account. 
As part of this request for information, Mr D sent Pockit proof of his identity and address.
Mr D gave Pockit some information regards the source of the funds in his account. Pockit 
were not satisfied with what was given to it, and returned the funds held in the account to 
source. That is, to the accounts they were sent from in July 2021.
Mr D says the transactions hes been asked about all relate to the sale of his items through 
social media and digital platforms. Mr D also says Pockit hasnt sent the money, as it says it 
has, to the remitting source accounts.
Unhappy with Pockits actions, Mr D complained. Pockit didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, and 
in short said it can restrict customer accounts at any time and withhold funds.
Mr D then referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators then looked into 
the matter. Pockit said it returned the funds to the source accounts, but around four of the 
transactions amounting to about £255 were rejected. Pockit said if Mr D gives it bank 
statements showing name and bank details, it would process the payments again.
Our Investigator then sent both parties their opinion on Mr Ds complaint. Mr D didnt agree 
with what our Investigator said, so they looked into the complaint again. Having done that, 
our Investigator sent their second view on Mr Ds complaint. In summary, some of their key 
findings were: 
- Pockit have the right to place a block and conduct a review and its not obliged to 
give warning or explanation. Pockit blocked Mr Ds account fairly, and in line with the 
terms of the account, and with its legal and regulatory obligations
- Pockit should have progressed its review quicker as it blocked the account in 
August 2020 but didnt start its review until late December 2020. This is a significant 
delay
- Mr D sent Pockit information relating to its review in January 2021, but a decision 
about the information provided wasnt made until May 2021. And the funds were not 
returned till September 2021 - and no update from January 2021 was given to Mr D 
about this
- Pockit didnt tell Mr D about its review and subsequent block. Despite many 
messages from Mr D through August and September 2020, Pockit didnt reply until 
December 2020. Similarly Pockit took seven months to respond to Mr D after hed 
sent it information relating to the money in his account
- Pockit refused to give Mr D copies of his account statements. This is unfair given 
Mr D was being asked about particular transactions - and a customer shouldnt be 
denied access to their statements
- Mr D gave further information following our Investigators first view. Based on this, 
they were satisfied Mr D did receive most of the funds from online sales
- A transaction of £595 was unfairly returned to source so this should be reimbursed. 
But Mr D hasnt provided enough evidence for a £120 payment to show it came from 
an online sale of shoes
- Mr D has shown enough evidence that he is entitled to a £340 transaction and that it 
was from an online sale. So this should be reimbursed to him. But Mr D hasnt given 
enough information to conclude the same for a £450 payment
- Pockit agreed to return the remaining £234.17 to Mr D as these return to source 
transactions were rejected. But these shouldnt have been attempted for return to 
source as theres nothing to show Pockit asked for source of funds information from 
Mr D
- So Pockit should reimburse Mr D with the £595, £160 and £340 transactions and it 
should pay 8% interest on these funds from 9 September 2020
- Pockit should also pay Mr D £250 for the stress and inconvenience its caused. Hes 
explained he struggled financially over the pandemic which led him to sell his own 
items online, and not having access to these funds caused him stress. But Mr D did 
have another active external account  so he wasnt left without access to a deposit 
and payment account
- Mr D says he was struggling with depression at the time, but he hasnt sent any 
evidence of this
As Pockit didnt respond to what our Investigator said, Mr Ds complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I then sent both parties my provisional decision and set them a deadline for further 
arguments and evidence. For ease of reference, here is what I said I was minded on 
deciding and why: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr D and Pockit have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from regulated firms as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it 
contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Pockit has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Account review and restrictions
Financial businesses, like Pockit, in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means Pockit 
needs to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having considered this carefully, Im persuaded Pockit had concern enough to review the 
account and then place restrictions on it.
Funds withheld  return to source
As Pockit had concerns, I would expect it, as it has done, to carry out due diligence by 
asking Mr D for evidence of the source of his funds. I do however question why it took Pockit 
around four months to do this. This is a significant and unreasonable delay.
Pockit has given me some of the information Mr D gave it to show where the funds had 
come from. Excluding the proof of identity and address, Pockit found Mr Ds evidence of 
source of funds insufficient. Its not clear whether Pockit have given us everything Mr D gave 
it. But based on what Pockit have given us, Id agree this isnt enough to show entitlement to 
the funds.
As part of looking into this complaint, our Investigator has asked Mr D to give us more 
evidence. When asked, Mr D has always acted in a timely manner in providing information. 
Hes also explained that it was difficult for him to know what transactions Pockit needed 
information about as it refused to give him his statements.
Given Pockit restricted the account in August 2020 but didnt ask for the source of funds 
information until late December 2020, its understandable and reasonable that Mr D wouldve 
needed his statements, or something similar, to show what transactions Pockit need 
information about.
I also havent seen information which shows what information Pockit asked for, and what 
follow up questions or information - if any at all - it asked of Mr D given it wasnt satisfied with 
what it got in the first instance. I would expect Pockit to have given Mr D reasonable 
opportunity to show his entitlement to these funds. But from the little information I have 
regarding this, I cant say it did.
Whats important here is that as soon as we were able to give specific details about the 
transactions, Mr D has given us information and communicated effectively with this service 
to explain what information he does have, and hes been able to explain key details about 
them.
To that end, Mr D has provided enough information to persuade me that four of the key five 
transactions under review here, were legitimate and the result of selling goods online. Mr D 
has sent us courier delivery information from this time, hes also sent us messages between 
him and the buyer which match with the names on the account that weve been given by 
Pockit. Mr D has also shown that items in the payment reference match with what was being sold to the buyer.
Additionally, Mr D has shown that from October 2020 he opened a business and later a 
third-party bank account for it  and that this business was engaged with a similar activity of 
selling goods online.
Its possible Mr D was using his Pockit account for business purposes, but equally it could be 
that his business started off from him selling his goods online to help him personally through 
the pandemic. This is something he has alluded to. If Pockit considered he was using his 
account for business purposes - an argument it hasnt made - it could have reason to close 
the account. But in this instance, I would expect it to have given Mr D fair warning before 
doing so.
So taken together, Im satisfied Mr D has shown me enough evidence the transactions under 
review by Pockit were most likely the proceeds of legitimate and genuine online sales as he 
says. I must point out that I havent seen anything else which shows Pockit had other more 
heightened concerns, or had other information, which meant it acted fairly in restricting and 
returning the funds to source.
Because of this I dont think Pockit should have returned Mr Ds fund to the source accounts. 
Mr D has said he hasnt been able to get any of the money back from the people he sold the 
goods to. That isnt surprising given theyre not family or barring one, friends. Incidentally, 
Mr D has said the buyer whos a friend has not had their money returned.
Given Im satisfied Pockit shouldnt have sent the funds back in the way it has, I am planning 
on directing it to return all of Mr Ds funds. I understand that amount is £2,124.17.
Given the severity and impact an account block can have, I wouldve expected Pockit to act 
in a much timelier way. Ive already said it started its due diligence process after an 
unreasonable delay. Similarly, Pockit caused similar delay once it received information back 
from Mr D in January 2021. It didnt start the return to sender process until seven or eight 
months later without any substantive update to Mr D or reason why it took this long for it to 
decide on its course of action.
Taking the above into consideration, I think a reasonable time for Pockit to have carried out 
its review and accompanying due diligence, wouldve been around a month. It also shouldve 
given Mr D copies of his statements, which after all he is entitled to. This would have helped 
him give it material evidence for the review. As Mr D has been deprived of his funds, Pockit 
will need to pay 8% simple interest from September 2020 up until settlement.
Distress and inconvenience
Ive already said Pockit caused substantive delays in carrying out its investigations to Mr Ds 
detriment. Ive also seen that Pockit has communicated poorly throughout to Mr D. And Ive 
also found that Pockit should not have returned Mr Ds funds to their remitters.
Mr D has said that this matter affected his mental health  causing or exacerbating his 
condition. I havent seen any compelling evidence that Mr D did have such a condition. But I 
do accept this matter would have caused him stress and anxiety  especially at a time of 
great uncertainty during the pandemic.
Mr D had another account which mitigates against my compensation award given he had 
access to deposit and payment facilities.
Ive also seen that Mr D chased Pockit many times for meaningful updates and it didnt respond on most occasions.
So taking all of this into account, Im planning on awarding Mr D £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience Pockit caused it. This award also considers that Mr D would have suffered 
some embarrassment in asking his customers if they have had their payments returned.
Putting things right
To put things right, I am planning on directing Pockit to:
-Pay Mr D all the funds it withheld which I understand to be £2,124.17
-Pay 8% simple interest on £2,124.17 from September 2020 up until settlement*
-Pay Mr D £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience
*If Pockit considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
I set both parties a deadline to send me any further comments or evidence. Both Pockit and 
Mr D have accepted what I said in my provisional decision. So, Ill now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons above relating to my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold this 
complaint in part. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Wirecard Card Solutions Limited, trading as Pockit, must: 
- Pay Mr D all the funds it withheld which I understand to be £2,124.17
- Pay 8% simple interest on £2,124.17 from September 2020 up until settlement*
- Pay Mr D £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience
* If Pockit considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Wirecard Card Solutions Limited must 
now put things rights as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman