DRN-3718571
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold a timeshare product and the loan used to Capital the 
purchase. The loan was provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (now Mitsubishi HC Capital UK 
Plc), which Ill refer to as Hitachi Capital.
Mr G has been represented by a claims business, which Ill refer to as M. Where I refer to 
Mr Gs submissions and arguments, I include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr G says that he and his wife were invited to take a free holiday, which they did in in May 
2016. They were required to attend a short presentation to receive information about the 
resort but, when they went to the meeting, they found out that it was in fact a lengthy and 
high-pressured sales pitch. 
Following the presentation  and as result of it  Mr and Mrs G agreed to buy 7,500 Points 
Rights and membership of the Diamond Resorts European Collection Limited at a cost of 
£8,000. The purchase agreement recorded that the seller was  Diamond Resorts (Europe) 
Limited (DRL). To fund the purchase, Mr G took out a loan with Hitachi Capital. 
In July 2019 Mr G complained to Hitachi Capital, and in September 2019 that complaint was 
referred to this service. In summary, Mr Gs complaint is: 
DRL misrepresented the club membership, and Mr G has not received all the benefits 
set out in the contract. He therefore has a claim against DRL and, under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a like claim against Hitachi Capital. 
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Hitachi Capital had not carried out proper checks to ensure that the loan was affordable 
for Mr G.  
Mr Gs submissions in support of those claims were, again in summary, as follows:
The sales process was high-pressured and lengthy. He was not given time to read and 
consider the documents and felt he had to sign immediately. 
He was told that use of club resorts was exclusive to members, but they were available 
to non-members as well. 
He was told that membership points could be traded and that they would produce a 
guaranteed yearly income. 
He had been a member since 2010, but had not received notice of annual meetings, as 
was his entitlement. 
DRL had breached regulation 26 of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 Regulations), which require 
payments to be taken in yearly instalments of equal value. 
The contract could potentially continue indefinitely. 
DRL was acting as his agent, so Hitachi Capital was guilty of procuring a breach of a 
fiduciary duty. 
He and Mrs G had not been told in advance that they were to attend a sales 
presentation, in breach of the 2010 Regulations. 
Members had no control over the costs of membership, so the sale contract included 
terms which were unfair within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) and was therefore wholly unenforceable. 
The commission paid to DRL for arranging the loan had not been disclosed.  
There was no benefit from being a club member.  
Hitachi Capital sought comments from DRL, which rejected the claims made. It said (again, 
in summary):
On arrival at the meeting, customers are given details of the content of the presentation. 
The sales process was lengthy, but only because that was necessary to ensure full 
explanations were given.  
It denied the sales tactics were pressured or unfair. 
Customers have a 14-day cooling-off period in which to withdraw from any agreement, 
should they wish to do so.
Mr and Mrs G were aware that some accommodation would be used by non-members.
They knew that accommodation was available on a first-come, first-served basis. They 
have never raised any concerns about non-availability of accommodation. 
It operates a rental scheme, but does not guarantee an income. Mr and Mrs G have 
never sought to use it. 
There was no breach of Regulation 26 of the 2010 Regulations, because Mr and Mrs G 
bought a timeshare product, not a long-term holiday product.  
The club will be wound up at the end of 2054, but it is possible for members to leave 
before then. 
Mr and Mrs G were made aware of the maintenance fees and how they would be 
calculated. 
They also knew that a commission might be paid, and could have asked how much it 
would be.  
When the case was referred to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened but did not recommend that it be upheld. Mr G did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case. M added that, since the clubs 
plan included selling significant numbers of its properties within its fractional ownership pool, 
it was very likely that, some time before the club was due to be wound up in 2054, none 
would be available to members with points-based membership.    
Mr G did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. I did that and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
The May 2016 purchase agreement was made between Mr and Mrs G as buyer and DRL as 
seller. It was an agreement for the sale and purchase of 7,500 Points Rights. DRL is also 
named as the supplier in Hitachi Capitals documentation. 
I am satisfied therefore that the loan was arranged by DRL under existing arrangements with 
Hitachi Capital. Indeed, that does not appear to be in dispute. I must therefore consider what 
Mr G has said about the actions of DRL.
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
A breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract does not do what it has agreed to 
under the contract. There can be a breach if it is clear that one party will not do what it has 
agreed to do. 
In order to establish whether a party has a valid claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, it is necessary therefore to consider the contract terms. 
Contractual documents         
I note that Mr G says that the Points Rights were poor value for money, because he could 
have secured the same accommodation more cheaply. I make no comment on that, save to 
say that poor value is not, of itself, a ground for a claim.
The sale and purchase contract was a standard one produced by DRL. It included a 3-page 
purchase agreement, a Key Information document, and a Customer Compliance Statement. 
By clause 4 of the Terms and Conditions Mr G acknowledged receipt of the Key Information 
Document, Inventory Schedule, Withdrawal Form, Annual Global Reservations Directory, 
Resort Disclosure Booklet, the Governing Documents Booklet and the Rules and 
Regulations of the Club. 
DRLs Terms and Conditions also included, at clause 5, a statement that customers should 
not buy points as an investment. 
Clause 6 was an entire agreement clause, telling buyers that if they were relying on verbal 
promises, they should be put it in writing.
Clause 7 said that, if any part of the contract was invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the rest of 
the contract would remain valid and enforceable. 
Part 1, section 4 of the Key Information document said that the club would be dissolved on 
31 December 2054. Part 3, section 4 provided information about termination of the contract. It explained that membership could be transferred in some circumstances. In exceptional 
circumstances it might be possible to relinquish membership. 
The Customer Compliance Statement comprised 22 statements about the sale and loan. 
The statements included: 
a statement that the points system offered flexibility, subject to availability (my 
emphasis) (4);
a statement that the members understood that there was no resale or buyback 
programme for Points Rights (12);
confirmation that they were unable to meet the financial commitments under any finance 
agreement (17);
a statement that they understood that DRL worked with credit providers and that it was 
entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit brokered (18);
confirmation that they had been treated courteously, had been given time to consider 
whether the product was right for [them], and had not been put under pressure (20);
confirmation they had read the purchase agreement, key information and any Capital 
document and were happy to proceed (21);
confirmation that they understood that the documents constituted the entire agreement 
and that no oral or written representations had been made on which they had relied 
(22).
A signature on these statements does not of course mean that they were true. But if they 
were not true, I would have expected Mr G, in bringing this complaint and addressing Hitachi 
Capitals response to it, to explain why he signed the documents and why, having done so, 
he did not exercise his right of withdrawal if he was unhappy. 
It is relevant too that the purchase contracts were clear that Mr and Mrs G would not be able 
to rely on any oral representations and that they confirmed they had been given plenty of 
time to consider the purchases. Further, even if Mr and Mrs G felt they had been rushed into 
the agreement, they had 14 days in which to review it and withdraw if they werent happy.  
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a misrepresentation claim against DRL would 
succeed in this case. 
M said that Mr G had been a timeshare owner since 2010 and that he had not received 
notice of annual general meetings, as he was entitled to do. It specifically mentioned the 
2012 meeting. DRL said that was not the case. Mr G had been a member only since 2015 
(when he and Mrs G took out a trial membership) and had received proper notice of all 
meetings since 2016. Mr G has not challenged that response or provided any evidence of 
earlier membership. Even if he were able to show a breach of contract in 2012, however, 
that could not give rise to a claim against Hitachi Capital. 
M says too that the way in which the club operates means that there will be no 
accommodation available to points-based members before the club is wound up in or shortly 
after 2054. I accept that might be a possibility, especially if fractional ownership properties 
are sold to third parties and are not replaced by new properties. But it does not seem to me 
that that scenario is any more or less likely than any other breach occurring at some point in 
the future. I do not believe that I can fairly say that the possibility of that happening could 
give rise to a claim for breach of contract now.     It follows that Hitachi Capitals decision not to uphold Mr Gs claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act was reasonable.  
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In deciding whether to make orders under these provisions, a court can consider any linked 
agreement  which in this case would include the contract with DRL. For the reasons I have 
explained, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under section 75 on the basis 
of misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
M has however suggested other grounds of unfairness, which Ill discuss.
Mr G says that the sales presentation was pressured and that, in breach of the 2010 
Regulations, he and Mrs G were not told that it was a sales presentation. That is in dispute. 
Be that as it may, it seems to me that Mr and Mrs G must have found out some time before 
they signed the purchase agreement that they were at a sales presentation. And they had 14 
days in which to reconsider their decision to buy and to withdraw from the sale and the loan, 
without penalty. 
M says too that DRL was in breach of regulation 26 of the 2010 Regulations, which prohibits 
single payments for long-term holiday products. But Mr and Mrs G did not enter into a long-
term holiday product contract, which is defined in regulation 8. Theirs was a timeshare 
contract, which is defined in regulation 7. 
M says that the term dealing with maintenance and management fees did not allow Mr and 
Mrs G to calculate what those fees would be and that it was therefore unfair within the 
meaning of UTCCR. By May 2016, the relevant statute was the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA), although  so far as is relevant here  its provisions are broadly similar to those in 
UTCCR. A term which is unfair within the meaning of the CRA is unenforceable. Examples 
of terms which might be unfair include a term where a supplier is able unilaterally to alter the 
price attached to a contract, to the detriment of the consumer. 
The sale contract did not specify what the fees would be in the future. I dont believe it would 
be possible for it to do so, given they will arise annually until 2054. But the contract did 
explain what the fees would cover and how they would be calculated. In the circumstances, I 
think it unlikely that a court would conclude that the relevant term is unfair. Even if it did, 
the result under the CRA is that the term is unenforceable, not that the entire contract falls. 
M submits too that, in arranging the loan, DRL was acting as agent for Mr G and therefore 
owed him a fiduciary duty. I dont believe that was the case, however; that would be at odds 
with section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, the effect of which is that a broker acts as agent 
for the lender. DRL was acting as supplier of the Points Rights and of club membership. It 
was not providing an impartial recommendation or advice to Mr G. 
I make similar observations in respect of the complaint that commission wasnt disclosed. 
DRL told Mr G that a commission might be paid, but it was under no duty to say how much it 
would be unless asked. I have no reason to think that, if Mr G had asked about the level of 
commission, he would have been told what it was. For these reasons, I think it unlikely that a court would make orders under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act. It follows again that Hitachi Capitals response to this part of the 
complaint was reasonable. 
 Affordability
Mr G says that a proper assessment was not made to ensure he could afford the loan. I note 
that the documents provided by Hitachi Capital include information about his income and 
housing costs, so there was some assessment made. 
Mr G has not suggested however that he has had any difficulty in making repayments. The 
Customer Compliance Statement indicates that DRL did discuss the loan with him, although 
it was for Hitachi Capital to assess whether it was suitable and affordable. 
I do note that Mr and Mrs G had a substantial mortgage at the time, and that the monthly 
payments exceeded Mr Gs salary. It seems therefore that Mr G was not relying on his salary 
alone to meet the payments  or indeed to fund the existing mortgage payments.   
The fact that Mr G has been able to meet the loan repayments does not, of itself, mean that 
the loan was in fact affordable, still less that Hitachi Capital properly assessed it. It is 
however an indication that it was, and that a more detailed assessment is unlikely to have 
made any real difference overall.
 Conclusion 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr G has a claim against DRL or, therefore, 
whether he has a claim under section 75. Nor do I have any power to make orders under 
section 140A and section 140B, or to decide whether a contract term is unfair under the 
CRA. Nor can I make a ruling on whether DRL was in breach of the 2010 Regulations.    
They are however matters which I must take into account in deciding what I consider is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. I have done that and concluded that Hitachi 
Capitals response to Mr Gs claims was reasonable. 
Subsequent events
On 5 May 2023  that is, after I issued my provisional decision  the High Court issued its 
judgment on a judicial review of two decisions of the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
respect of timeshare cases ([2023] EWHC 1069).
Neither Hitachi Capital nor Mr G has responded to my provisional decision with any further 
evidence or arguments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has made any additional arguments as a result of the recent judicial review. 
For completeness, however, I would add that, having considered the judgment myself, I am 
not persuaded it provides any reason for me to depart from my provisional conclusions.  
In the absence of any further evidence or arguments, I do not believe there is any reason for 
me to reach a different overall conclusion from that which I reached in my provisional 
decision. My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint and I do not 
require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman