DRN-4124519
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd unfairly cancelled a reviewable term life cover 
policy connected to his pension plan. 
What happened
Mr S held a personal pension plan with Zurich until 2019 when he withdrew the benefits. The 
pension policy had a related policy that included life cover. Zurich cancelled the life cover 
policy shortly after Mr S had withdrawn his pension fund.
Mr S says Zurich told him the life cover would continue and complained to Zurich that it 
hadnt told him the life cover had been cancelled. Zurich apologised that it told Mr S in error 
that his pension still had some value in 2021, and that this added to Mr Ss belief that the life 
cover was still in place. Zurich confirmed that it couldnt re-instate the policy but offered to 
pay Mr S £150 to reflect the impact of the poor service it had provided.
Mr S brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that although Zurich had accepted 
it provide incorrect information to Mr S and offered to pay him £150 to reflect the upset this 
would have caused, Zurich should increase this amount to £200. The Investigator thought 
this reasonably reflected the additional upset Mr S felt when he became aware hed been 
without valuable life cover during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Zurich accepted the view of the Investigator. Mr S asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Zurich has already accepted it provided incorrect information to Mr S, I only need to look 
whether the remedy Zurich offered to pay Mr S was a fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. I understand that Mr S will be disappointed, but for very much 
the same reasons as the Investigator Ive decided that Zurich should pay Mr S £200 for the 
upset caused to Mr S when he found out the life cover had been cancelled.
Zurich has provided a copy of a letter it sent Mr S about the life cover linked to his pension in 
2017. This explained that the policy would have no cash-in value and that when Mr S 
reached the age of 65, he would be provided with the option of converting the policy to an 
alternative plan  and that any new plan would be based on his age, smoker status and the 
original underwriting decision. The same letter went on to tell Mr S of the remaining value of 
his pension plan.
In May 2019, after Mr S had asked for details about withdrawing all his pension benefits, 
Zurich wrote to Mr S and explained, Your plan also has life cover ... This will stop when 
you take all the money from your plan. If you do intend to take your pension plan in full but 
still need this life cover, please contact us for further information or speak to a financial 
adviser as there are a number of options open to you. Taking this information into account I 
think Zurich made it reasonably clear in 2019 that the life cover would cease when the full 
pension fund was withdrawn. Neither Mr S nor Zurich have provided any evidence to 
suggest Mr S contacted Zurich for advice in this regard.
Unfortunately, when Mr S contacted Zurich in 2021 to query why his direct debit for the life 
cover had been cancelled, Zurich told Mr S that there was still a value in his pension, and 
also sent Mr S a further pension transfer form to complete. Zurich made a mistake, and it 
accepts that it compounded the mistake by leading Mr S to believe there was still a value in 
the pension plan which in turn suggested to Mr S that the life cover was still in place. 
Zurich provided incorrect information to Mr S in 2021 but I think Zurich made it reasonably 
clear to Mr S that when he withdrew his pension benefits in 2019 the life policy would cease. 
And the letter Zurich sent Mr S in 2017 also made it reasonably clear the life cover policy 
had no value to it. Zurich then went on to provide incorrect information to Mr S in 2021. I 
think it would have helped Mr S if Zurich had confirmed the cover had ended in 2019 when 
the full pension had been withdrawn, but the terms and conditions of the plan did make it this 
reasonably clear this is what would happen.
Mr S has been able to obtain life cover from another provider, and thats re-assuring. He 
would have had to do this anyway when he was 65 even if he hadnt withdrawn his pension 
benefits. Mr S says that he was shocked hed been without life cover for a period of time, 
especially when he realised that he hadnt any life cover during the Covid-19 pandemic. So, 
although Zurich offered to pay Mr S £150, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Zurich to 
pay Mr S £200. In my opinion, this reflects the upset the incorrect information Zurich 
provided caused Mr S in the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint and that Zurich Assurance Ltd should pay Mr S £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman