DRN-1665373
complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W took out a mortgage with BoS in 2005. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy 
which would have covered her mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a time if Mrs W 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy. 
Mrs W says that she didnt know she had the PPI. She says she didnt agree to buy it and 
that she didnt need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. Mrs W disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS had to make it clear to Mrs W that the PPI was optional and needed her consent before 
it could be applied. While neither party has retained all the documents from the sale nearly 
15 years ago, BoS has been able to supply a copy of the letter sent to Mrs W after she took 
the PPI. It details the cost and terms and makes it clear the cover was optional. BoS has 
also supplied evidence of various underwriting questions asked of Mrs W at the time and her 
answers. I dont think this would have happened if they hadnt been discussing the PPI. Mrs 
W also had to complete a separate direct debit instruction for the premiums to be paid. 
Again, I dont think this would have happened if Mrs W wasnt aware of the PPI.
BoS has provided evidence that Mrs W called to cancel the PPI when her mortgage ended. I 
dont think she would have done this if she hadnt been aware of the PPI. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mrs W bought the PPI understanding she had a 
choice about it, although I understand why she might not remember this. 
BoS say it advised Mrs W to take the PPI. This means it had to check it was suitable for Mrs 
W. I can see from the evidence supplied that BoS asked Mrs W about her personal 
circumstances, including her health. I dont know if BoS took all the steps it should have 
done to check this, but I do think the policy was suitable for Mrs W. I say this because:
 Mrs W was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which might have made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs W was only entitled to statutory sick pay, which would have been significantly 
less than her usual salary. The PPI would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for a much longer period of time. Similarly, it would have paid out in 
addition to any redundancy pay for up to a year at a time. This would have meant 
that Mrs Ws other means could be used to cover other uninsured expenses;
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mrs W;
Mrs W could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out if she no longer 
wanted or needed it. 
 
Mrs W has explained that she was in receipt of two private pensions and that her adult 
children were living with her and would have helped her out if she couldnt work. While I 
accept that if Mrs W wasnt working she would have retained the income from her pensions, 
she would still have had other expenses to cover and her income would have been 
significantly reduced. And while Im sure Mrs Ws children would have wanted to help if they 
could, this help couldnt be guaranteed as their circumstances might have changed too.
Mrs W also explained that she had an endowment policy which she could have cashed in. I 
dont know what this was worth at the time, but it would have been a significant decision to 
cash in an investment like that, especially as it provided life cover. Having the PPI meant 
that Mrs W wouldnt have needed to do that.
After the adjudicator sent Mrs W their initial view Mrs W told us that she also had another 
permanent job at the time of sale. This might have meant that she found it hard to claim if 
she lost only one of her jobs. But looking at Mrs Ws mortgage declaration information it 
asked if she had an additional source of income other than her job and pensions and she 
answered no. So as thats what she told BoS at the time of sale I cant take her additional 
role into account now as the advice BoS gave her would have depended on the answers she 
provided to them.
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mrs W, BoS also had to give her clear 
information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the 
policy  so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs W wasnt as clear as it should have been but this 
in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold. I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this 
because Im satisfied the PPI was suitable for Mrs W in the way Ive described. So having 
taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mrs W this PPI policy.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint, so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay any 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman