DRN-3660288
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) asked for further information 
before it would agree to transfer a joint account into her sole name.
What happened
Mrs B says she held a joint NS&I account with her late father. She says NS&Is website 
says the account should pass to her on the passing away of one party, but it required her 
to provide further information such as a Grant of Probate or inheritance tax information. 
Mrs B says she didnt have that information and there was no mention of that in the 
account terms and conditions or online. She would like access to her money and says 
NS&Is actions caused distress at a difficult time.
NS&I says it is required by legislation to ask Mrs B for either the Grant of Probate (GoP) 
or confirmation from Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) that no inheritance 
tax is payable. It says it told Mrs B this when she told it about the passing away of her 
father in November 2021. NS&I says there is no question that the account will revert to a 
sole account in Mrs Bs name which is what the account terms and conditions say, but it 
needed the information.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us and confirmed that she provided NS&I with the required 
document in March 2022. Our investigator upheld the complaint and thought there was no 
mention of the additional requirements in either NS&Is account terms and conditions or 
online. The investigator thought NS&Is final response letter suggested it may make a 
change to the information on this issue and that an update to its website would not be 
onerous. He recommended NS&I pay Mrs B £100 for the trouble and upset she was 
caused.
NS&I doesnt agree with that view and says even if it recorded the requirement on its 
website then a customer would still need to obtain the document. It says it told Mrs B that 
when she contacted it about the requirements and says it cant have a term and condition 
for every issue.
Mrs B hasnt replied to the investigators view.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said as follows.
NS&I has dealt fairly with this complaint.
I looked carefully at Mrs Bs account terms and conditions and looked at the information 
available following the passing away of one joint account holder. The terms and 
conditions say that if a joint account holder dies then the surviving holder gets ownership 
of the account. There was no dispute here that following the passing away of Mrs Bs 
father that she should, in line with those terms and conditions, become the account 
holder. I didnt think that was the issue here and said there is no suggestion from either 
party that didnt take place.
I said the key issue is the requirement to provide additional evidence on the death of one 
party. I could see that the account terms and conditions explain the type of Bond that Mrs 
B opened, and that NS&I say that it has tried to make sure there is no conflict with its 
terms and conditions. But if there are, then legislation takes precedence. I was satisfied 
that is what had taken place here that legislation required NS&I to ask Mrs B for either a 
GoP or confirmation about inheritance tax from HMRC. I was sure Mrs B appreciates that 
NS&I is not responsible for that requirement and has no choice but to ask for that 
information. And I was satisfied that NS&I explained to Mrs B in those terms and 
conditions that there may be occasions when the account terms and conditions are 
impacted by legislation.
I appreciated what the investigator and Mrs B said, that those requirements could be 
included either in terms and conditions or online. But I disagreed and thought that there is 
only so much information that can be included in either and in any event even if it were 
included, Mrs B would still have needed to obtain the information. So, I didnt think Mrs B 
had been caused additional inconvenience and would have been required to provide the 
information even if the regulatory requirements were detailed in either the account terms 
and conditions or online.
I could see that NS&I did fairly tell Mrs B that it needed the information within a short time 
period after being told about the passing away of her father. I said I find it was then up to 
Mrs B to apply for either document and I couldnt fairly hold NS&I responsible for those 
time scales or delay, as I could see the document was provided in March 2022.
Overall, I was satisfied that NS&I did include information on a general level about the 
precedence of legislation in its terms and conditions and I wouldnt have expected it to 
have provided further information in those terms and conditions. I made clear that even if 
it did provide further information then the requirements would still need to be met. As I 
didnt think NS&I had acted unfairly then I didnt think it should pay compensation.
Mrs B hasnt replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman