DRN-3902032
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax failed to refund transactions 
she didnt recognise.
What happened
What Mrs C says
Mrs C is represented in this complaint, but Ill mainly refer to her throughout as its her own 
funds that were lost.
Mrs C noticed several payments she didnt recognise had been made from her Halifax 
account. She froze her card and later reported it to Halifax. Mrs C also said she noticed an 
unauthorised user accessing her social media account and changed the password.
Mrs C reported that further attempts were made to use her card but were unsuccessful 
because shed frozen it. She was told by Halifax that her account was safe but noticed 
further successful unidentified payments a few days later and an unrecognised direct debit 
had been set up on her account.
List of disputed transactions
Date Merchant Amount
01/09/2022 A £40.00
01/09/2022 A £25.00
01/09/2022 A £20.00
01/09/2022 A £20.00
01/09/2022 A £20.00
01/09/2022 B £44.63
02/09/2022 A £60.00
02/09/2022 C £32.50
02/09/2022 B £25.59
05/09/2022 A £68.94
Mrs C approached the merchant who had taken some of the payments, but they declined to 
make any refund. Mrs C asked Halifax to refund those payments she disputed and a 
temporary refund was made by Halifax . Later, Halifax reversed the refund and took the 
money back, believing Mrs C was responsible for the transactions.
Mrs C was unhappy and complained to them about the situation, eventually bringing her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service after Halifax didnt uphold her complaint.
What Halifax said
Halifax received notification from Mrs C about the unrecognised transactions and made a 
temporary refund while they investigated the issue. Halifax raised disputes with the various 
merchants using the (Chargeback system) about the disputed payments and in each case, 
all the transactions were defended by them. They provided various pieces of evidence about 
the transactions that they believed pointed to the transactions being carried out by Mrs C.
Halifaxs notes referred to Mrs C having made a small payment with her card on a social 
media site, which may have been the cause of the card details being utilised.
After reviewing the evidence, Halifax recovered the temporary refund from Mrs C and 
considered her complaint about the situation. They came to the same conclusion about the 
refunds but accepted they could have given her better service when she raised the direct 
debit problem and paid her £55 compensation.
The investigation so far
Mrs Cs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who considered evidence 
provided by both parties and concluded that it was most likely that Mrs C was responsible for 
the transactions because each of the disputed transactions utilised details including her 
email address, post code for her home address and her card details. One of the payments 
also included information about the IP address data which matched earlier transactions. 
Some of the evidence included previous transactions to the same merchants that hadnt 
previously been disputed.
Mrs C, via her representative, disagreed with the investigators outcome and wished for one 
of the transactions.
I asked for clarification from Mrs C about several payments mentioned in the chargeback 
response. These appeared to indicate previously successful transactions with some of the 
same merchants. Mrs C was unable to remember them. Ive also sought an explanation that 
shows a number of payments from merchant A made to Mrs Cs account a few months 
after the disputed transactions were raised. These indicate that A made eight payments 
back to Mrs C which appear to cover all the disputed transactions listed against A in the 
above table. Unfortunately I havent received a response concerning this request.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Halifax can hold Mrs C liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Halifax can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs C authorised the 
transactions, but Halifax cannot say that the use of the card payment details conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Halifax can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs Cs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mrs C. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mrs C responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.Halifax used the Chargeback system to gather evidence about the payments and dispute 
them with the merchants on Mrs Cs behalf. Chargebacks are part of the payment system 
used for card transactions and require the merchant to provide evidence if they wish to 
challenge the dispute.
As the disputed transactions referred to from merchant A have been repaid to Mrs C, Ill no 
longer be considering them here. The payment to Merchant C was linked to a previous 
transaction and the merchant provided details about it to Halifax when they disputed it 
through the Chargeback. Those details included IP address data. This is information 
concerning the device used to make the transaction or linked to the network used to channel 
the request. Here, it showed a common IP address with other undisputed transactions. In 
practice this generally means that the same location was used for both disputed and 
undisputed transactions. It infers that whoever made it was present in the same location and 
together with the other data, would indicate the transaction was authorised by Mrs C.
The disputed payments under B were also defended by the merchant. They provided 
details of Mrs Cs payment details, her address (via postcode) and her email address which 
would normally be used to confirm any online order. Additionally, evidence was presented 
that showed the same merchant had also been used successfully some months earlier. I 
understand that Mrs C cant remember these earlier transactions but looking through the 
statements that go back several months from the same year, I counted at least five 
payments to the same merchant. 
As these were before the suspect payment referred to in Halifaxs notes, I dont think this is 
the answer for these particular disputed transactions (to B). Ive thought about the pattern 
of the disputed transactions, if the card details had been used by an unauthorised third party, 
Id expect more use of the card as such thefts are usually identified quickly so the thief would 
tend to maximise usage. But here, the transactions to B are made over several months 
with large gaps in between them. Not something Id expect to see with a stolen card.
Overall here, there have been several disputed transactions that appear to have been repaid 
by the merchant to Mrs C, so for the purpose of this complaint Ive not further considered 
them. Regarding the other payment to merchant C (which Mrs C wanted considering 
separately), the evidence points towards her having an ongoing relationship with that 
merchant and had made earlier transactions to them. The evidence provided by them 
indicates it was likely Mrs C who was responsible for the transaction.
There are several earlier successful transactions from Mrs Cs account to the merchant B. 
Mrs C hasnt been able to remember them but taking those undisputed transactions together 
with the evidence supplied during the Chargeback, I think its more likely than not that Mrs C 
was responsible for them or allowed another person to use her account. It follows that it was 
reasonable for Halifax to hold Mrs C liable for them and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman