DRN-4446561
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Society of Lloyds (SoL) handling and settlement of a claim made
under his motor insurance policy.
Where Ive referred to SoL, this includes the underwriting syndicate which actually provides
the cover under Mr Ks policy.
What happened
Mr K has a van which he uses for private social and domestic use rather than commercially,
and he insures it with a SoL syndicate.
In June 2022 Mr Ks van was stolen so he made a claim to SoL. The claim was accepted
and ultimately Mr K was offered a settlement of £7,020 (before excess deduction) for his
van. He was also paid £135.37 for some contents items which were in the van at the time of
the theft.
Mr K was unhappy with the settlement offered for the van, the contents, and how long the
claim had taken so he complained to SoL.
SoL issued a final response in which they said the van settlement was correct and wouldnt
be increased. But they agreed the handling of the claim fell short and paid £250
compensation. Mr K remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She said the
settlement offered for the van was fair and in line with how this service considers valuation
complaints. She also said the compensation already offered was fair.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a slightly different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive reached a partly different outcome to our investigator, Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
Mr K is unhappy with the settlement offered for his van and contents, and the overall
handling of the claim. Ill consider each point separately.
The vehicle valuation
Mr Ks policy says that in the event of a claim, the most SoL will pay is up to the 
market value. This is defined in the policy as:
Market value  the cost of replacing your vehicle with another one of the 
same make, model and specification and of similar age, mileage and 
condition at the time of an accident or loss.
SoL determined the market value of Mr Ks van using valuations obtained through 
industry trade guides. These were:
Glasss £5,002
CAP £5,850
SoL used the highest value from the guides when offering settlement. Because Mr K 
was using the van for personal use, rather than commercially, and he holds a private 
vehicle insurance policy, SoL has also added VAT to that valuation when offering 
settlement. This took the total amount to £7,020 before excess deduction.
Mr K disputes the valuation is fair and thinks this should be £8,500 or more.
When investigating Mr Ks complaint, our investigator also checked the valuations for 
the correct vehicle and mileage from CAP, Glasss, and additionally, Percayso. The 
valuation provided by Percayso was slightly higher - £7,077. However, valuing a 
vehicle isnt an exact science, and there is a relatively even split in difference across 
the three guides. And averaging the three guides (and adding VAT) shows the 
settlement offer made by SoL was in the range of all the trade guides.
As outlined to Mr K by our investigator, this services typical approach when 
considering complaints about the fair market value of a vehicle is to take into account 
what the market leading motor trade guides say the market value is. The guides are 
independent of the insurance industry, and from one another. As a service, we find 
these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based 
on nationwide research and likely sales figures.I do acknowledge Mr K says he cant replace his van with this amount and has 
provided his own adverts following research online of similar vehicles for sale, along 
with a letter from the original seller of his van. However, SoL has also carried out 
their own research and found similar vehicles for sale within the range of the 
settlement they offered. I should also point out that this service generally finds the 
motor trade guides to be more persuasive than sales adverts. This is because 
advertised prices are often the starting point of a negotiation and what the seller 
would like to achieve, rather than the final price it sells for after negotiation.
Ive considered the additional information and points Mr K has provided, but this isnt
sufficient to persuade me the valuation reached by SoL was unfair or unreasonable. 
With the above in mind, and unless anything changes as a result of the responses to 
my provisional decision, I wont be directing SoL to increase the settlement amount.
The claim handling
Mr K is unhappy with SoLs handling of his claim and how long it took to reach 
settlement. Hes also unhappy with the contact from agents acting on behalf of SoL 
and with the lack of, and conflicting, information provided.
I can see that Mr K needed to make multiple calls to try to progress his claim, call 
backs werent completed, and emails werent acknowledged. And unclear letters and
correspondence were sent to Mr K including about who was acting on behalf of SoL. 
And there was some confusion around contacting the named driver to obtain 
circumstances of the loss.
I also recognise Mr K and family had difficult personal circumstances at the time, and 
the claim would have added to what was already difficult circumstances. Ultimately 
the settlement for the van was made around four and a half months after the loss, 
and the personal belongings settlement around four weeks later. The claim would 
always have taken time to review and offer settlement, but I do agree the service 
Mr K received wasnt in line with his reasonable expectations.
But it isnt in dispute the service Mr K received fell short. SoL already accept that, 
and they offered £250 compensation for this. Having considered all the information 
provided, I think the compensation already offered by SoL is fair and reasonable, so 
unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional decision, I 
dont intend to direct SoL to increase this.
The personal belongings settlement
Despite Mr K raising with SoL that he was unhappy with the personal belongings 
settlement in his complaint to them, SoL didnt address this point in their final 
response. But as Im satisfied it was raised with them, and theyve already had the 
relevant time to consider this, Im now considering this complaint point here in my 
decision. Ill also add that our investigator didnt reach a finding on this point either, 
despite Mr K outlining this was part of his complaint.
When Mr Ks vehicle was stolen, there were some personal possessions in the 
vehicle. Mr Ks policy covers the theft of personal possessions up to a policy limit of 
£300.The items listed and provided to SoL were:
Item Value
Motorcycle ramp £59.40 (invoice provided and settled)
Metal toolbox Estimate at todays price £16.99
Two flashing beacons Estimate at todays price  total £33.98
Four ratchet straps Estimate at todays price  total £28.96
Six bungle straps Estimate at todays price  total £10.14
Various tools collected over 40 years Unknown due to amount of tools collected
Riding boots Bought second hand £150
Riding hat Estimate at todays price £134.95
Riding boot bag Estimate at todays price £30
Riding gloves Estimate at todays price £35
Three litter pickers £75.97 (invoice provided and settled)
Litter picker Estimate at todays price £26.45
Eight hi-visibility vests Estimate at todays price - total £28.75
Fours pairs of safety gloves Estimate at todays price  total £19.96
Mr K accepts that there is a policy limit of £300, so thats the maximum cover he 
would ever be entitled to. But hes unhappy that SoL has only paid £135.37.
It appears that SoL has only paid for the motorcycle ramp and three of the four litter 
pickers, on the basis that receipts had been provided.
However, I dont find it unreasonable that Mr K wouldnt have receipts for all the 
items hes listed, given the passage of time since purchase. None of the items 
individually are particularly high value, and Mr K has provided receipts for two of the 
higher value items. The rest of the items are generally low in value, along with an 
unknown amount for various tools within the toolbox.
Im persuaded, on balance, that the types of items listed were the types of items it 
would be reasonable to expect could be in Mr Ks van at the time of theft.
Given the circumstances and items being claimed for are relatively low in value, and 
a large amount wouldnt be covered in any event due to the policy limit, I dont think 
its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for SoL to hold Mr K to the strict burden of 
proof for every item here.
With this in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Im minded to conclude it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for SoL to pay the remainder of the personal belongings limit 
(£164.63). SoL would also need to add 8% simple interest on this amount from the 
date the original settlement was paid to date of settlement of the remainder.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct SoL to:
Pay Mr K the remaining personal belongings limit totalling £164.63
Add 8% simple interest from the date of the previous settlement to date of payment 
of the remainder
Pay the £250 compensation already offered, if they havent already done soThe responses to my provisional decision
SoL agreed with the provisional decision.
Mr K responded to the provisional decision and was in agreement with the increased 
personal belongings settlement. However, Mr K said the total loss settlement should have 
been reached sooner and asked for simple interest to be awarded for one month on the total 
loss settlement amount.
Mr K also confirmed he had already received the £250 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
I acknowledge that Mr K feels the settlement took longer than it should have and has asked 
for one month of simple interest on the total loss settlement amount. It isnt disputed by SoL 
that the claim wasnt handled in line with Mr Ks reasonable expectations overall and this is 
why they paid £250 compensation. However, a claim will always take time to validate, 
finalise and settle. I think the compensation already paid by SoL overall is fair in the 
circumstances, so I wont be awarding a month of simple interest on top of this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Society of Lloyds to:
Pay Mr K the remaining personal belongings limit totalling £164.63
Add 8% simple interest* from the date of the previous settlement to date of payment 
of the remainder
*If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman