DRN-3591572
The complaint
Miss F complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JL) didnt accept her debt
management plan, but kept writing directly to her. It then lost the letter she sent, offering to
settle her account, and instead applied a default, which is preventing her from remortgaging.
What happened
Miss F told us about very challenging personal circumstances which led to her getting into
financial difficulties. Im sorry to hear about what Miss F has faced. I wont set that out here.
Miss F said that once she was able to deal with these issues, she consulted a debt
management charity. The charity started a debt management plan (DMP) for her in
September 2020, and contacted all of her creditors. Three of the four acknowledged the
DMP and accepted her repayments, but JL never responded. Instead it continued to contact
her about the debt, and recommend she seek help. But her payments were being made
through the charity, and Miss F says this at least ought to have alerted JL to the situation.
Miss F said she wrote on 19 January 2021 to express frustration that JL hadnt recognised
her DMP. But she thought JL didnt have this letter. JL then wrote to her, in May 2021, with a
final demand. She told us that she wrote again, on 1 June, with an offer of 40% of the
balance. But she said JL didnt appear to have received this letter either. She said that in
June 2021 JL defaulted her account.
Miss F expressed disbelief that correspondence from the charity supporting her had gone
astray, and so had two letters that she sent to the right address. She thought this was why
her debt had been defaulted, and she expected that if all this correspondence had been
received, this debt would now show on her credit file as partially settled, not defaulted. She
explained the impact this was having on her.
While our service was looking into this complaint, Miss F told us that JL had finally agreed to
accept her partial settlement. So she said it should have amended her credit report to show
the debt as part settled. But over six months later, it still hadnt done that.
JL said it understood Miss F had been having some difficulties making her payments in 2019
and 2020. She then told it she had contacted a debt management charity and would be
entering into a DMP. JL said it never received details of that DMP, but it did start to receive
payments for Miss Fs account from a charity in September and October 2020.
JL said it had spoken to Miss F on 20 November 2020 and told her it hadnt received
anything from the charity about her DMP. JL said it would call her back on 23 November, but
it told us it wasnt able to speak to her then, and Miss F never called back.
JL said that in January 2021, it received a letter from Miss F about the mishandling of her
account. (This is the first letter Miss F says she sent, which she believed had been lost by
JL.) Miss F repeated that a charity was managing her DMP, and she was unhappy that JL
was still sending her letters. JL said it explained it had to issue regulatory correspondence,
and these letters were sent automatically in line with its policy and procedures. JL also told
us that it still hadnt received Miss Fs DMP at this point.
On 6 February2021, JL sent Miss F a default notice, and on 25 May 2021 it sent a final
demand. It then defaulted her account. Miss F contacted JL again after this, to tell it she
made an offer of 40% when she got the final demand. Miss F said that if JL had responded,
the account wouldnt have been defaulted. She wanted JL to accept this settlement now.
JL said that although things had gone wrong, and it hadnt received some letters, things
wouldnt be different if it had got those letters.
 JL thought Miss F should have called back, after it rang her in November 2020, and
that she would have known then that JL would need to speak to her, to arrange to
have her DMP resent.
 JL said that even if it had received Miss Fs DMP, she would still have been sent a
default notice and final demand.
 JL thought Miss F could have contacted it to make sure her offer had been received.
And it wouldnt accept an offer before completing a full financial assessment.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Miss F didnt answer
JLs call, or call back, when it rang to ask her to get the DMP resent. And he didnt think
there was any guarantee that her settlement offer would have been accepted, even if it was
received. He also said Miss Fs account would still have gone through JLs collections and
recovery process and the default notice and final demand wouldve still been issued anyway.
So our investigator felt the adverse information on Miss Fs credit file was registered
correctly.
Miss F wanted to know if our investigator had just taken JLs word for it, that it had called
her. Shed sent the letters referred to, she wanted to know why JL hadnt received them. She
wanted to know how JL dealt with post during the pandemic.
Our investigator clarified that JL did get Miss Fs January 2021 letter about the mishandling
of her DMP. It responded after shed phoned in early February, and referred to that call in its
letter, but there is a record of the first letter she sent being received too. He couldnt say why
the second letter, with the settlement offer, wasnt received. Our investigator also said he
could see JL did try to call Miss F on 23 November 2020, just before 4 oclock.
Miss F wrote again, as she didnt feel wed got to the crux of the issue. She said she should
have had the chance for her settlement offer to be accepted. She told us she had other
debts, but none of the other creditors she had failed to receive or acknowledge her DMP.
And none of her other creditors defaulted her debt.
Miss F also said JL had repeatedly claimed, on phone calls, not to have received the letter
she sent in January. She wanted to know why it hadnt replied to that letter if it did get it.
She said if we looked a later letter, from 4 September 2021, wed see she was still trying to
agree a settlement. But she said JL was insisting she complete an income and expenditure
form although she had told them the money she was using for this payment was a gift. She
told us shed explained to JL how desperate she had become. She didnt think that
someone should be pushed to this point before issues were finally resolved.
Our investigator said notes showed JL had received the letter of 19 January. He said Miss
F then called JL on 3 February, and it wrote to her on the same day.
Because our investigator and Miss F didnt agree, this case was passed to me for a finaldecision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
This complaint divides into a number of different parts. Ill look at each of those in turn, 
say what I think happened, and what should have happened, as well as setting out 
anything JL needs to do to put things right.
DMP not actioned
The first part of Miss Fs complaint is that her DMP wasnt actioned by JL. She said her 
other creditors all got it, so it does seem likely that the DMP was sent to JL too. Most 
items which are put in the post are properly delivered, so it does seem to me to be more 
likely that the DMP was lost by JL, than that it was lost in the post.
I think this lost correspondence had two consequences. Ill look at those in turn.
The first consequence was that JL continued to record missed payments on Miss Fs 
credit file. I think, if the correspondence hadnt been lost, then its more likely that the 
DMP would have been accepted, and JL would have shown Miss F as being in a 
payment arrangement.
Because I think thats what would have happened, and also because I think this 
represents a record on Miss Fs credit file which more closely matches actual events, I 
will ask JL to amend Miss Fs credit file, to show Miss F in a payment arrangement 
rather than simply showing a series of missed payments, from October 2020 (when I 
think the DMP would have been accepted) onwards, until the debt was settled.
The second consequence is JL continued to write to Miss F about this debt. I appreciate 
that even if JL had received the DMP, it would still need to send some correspondence 
to Miss F. But I think its likely that Miss F ended up being sent more letters, because of 
this. And I do have concerns about whether JL acted appropriately in trying to resolve 
this. It doesnt seem to have pursued this issue after November 2020, when it simply 
expected Miss F to call back. And when she did contact it in January, it told her the 
letters she was getting would have been sent anyway. It doesnt seem to have told her 
then that it still hadnt got her DMP.
I think that represented poor service to Miss F, and meant she was likely to have 
received more upsetting correspondence than was actually necessary. Ill bear that in 
mind when I think about the appropriate level of compensation in this case.
JL then sent Miss F a final demand. I do think that this would have been sent to Miss F
anyway, even if her DMP had been received.
Settlement offer not actioned  default placed on credit file.
Miss F responded by sending a settlement offer. Again, I think its more likely that this 
was received by JL, for the reasons set out above. It wasnt actioned. But I dont think 
the consequences are the same.
Its important to note that this offer was for considerably less money than JL had 
demanded. And I dont think its solely JLs fault that this wasnt actioned. Thats because here, I do think Miss F could have done more to make sure JL had 
acknowledged receipt of the letter. Miss F believed at this time that JL had very 
significant problems with its post. And that makes me think that Miss F should have 
contacted JL before the deadline in the final demand, to check that her letter was 
received. But she didnt do that.
I still think its poor service to lose a letter like this. But I dont think its solely JLs fault 
that this offer wasnt actioned. Miss F could have chased this up, and didnt.
My experience suggests that even if JL had responded to Miss Fs offer, it would still be 
likely to have decided to place a default on her account. So I dont think this lost letter is 
the only reason the default is there.
Consequences of the default 
Miss F told us that this default was the only thing stopping her from remortgaging. 
Id like to pause here to say that I have no reason to doubt that JL did put a default on 
Miss Fs file at this time. But it appears it may since have removed it, because the credit 
file Miss F has shown us recently doesnt show a default for this account.
And I dont think JL has to pay for all the consequences Miss F has described, which 
she says flow just from this default. Miss F has a number of other defaults on her credit 
file. Many of these are still relatively recent. JL was only ever responsible for one of 
these. So Im not able to assume that Miss F would have been able to remortgage 
successfully with those other defaults, and not the JL default.
Credit file not amended to show settlement 
Miss F complained to us on 31 August 2021. I understand Miss F then reached a 
settlement with JL on this debt, after her complaint was brought to us. After this, she told 
us JL wouldnt remove the default (although she may wish to check this with other 
CRAs, as JL may now have taken action on this). And she said it hadnt properly 
updated her credit file to show this debt as settled.
Its not clear that Miss F has raised this issue with JL. But I think it is in the interests of 
both sides if I seek to resolve this issue now.
If JL has not removed the default on Miss Fs credit file for all CRAs, I wont instruct it to 
do so now. I know that Miss F says other creditors accepted a settlement at this time 
without recording a default, but I havent been able to identify a comparable debt from 
around this time, with so many missed payments. And even if I could do that, I would 
also have to allow for the fact that different lenders may take a different approach.
But if JL has removed this default, whether or not this was intentional, then I dont think 
it would be fair for it to replace that default now, because the impact on Miss Fs credit 
file would be so far removed from the relevant events.
Miss F also told us that JL delayed in notifying credit reference agencies of the 
settlement. I can see that she accepted a payment of £100, which appears to have been 
for a delay in writing to her to confirm the settlement had been received in October 
2021. But it also looks as if she then complained again in April 2022. And her credit file 
for this account was last updated on 21 April 2022. Thats well after the settlement was 
reached in September 2021.That leads me to think that its likely Miss Fs credit file 
showed an unsettled debt, for far longer than it should have done. Miss F can offer more evidence on the impact of this point if she wishes, but at the 
moment, having considered her credit file in full, Im not able to say that if she was still 
unable to remortgage at this point, this would be the sole reason for that. Especially as 
JL appears to have provided a letter for her to show to mortgage companies, to confirm 
the true position on the account. But I also think that this is likely to be a further example 
of poor service by JL, and Ill take this into account in deciding compensation in this 
case.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
JL said it would accept my decision. It wanted to say that even if it had received and 
accepted the payment arrangement from the debt management charity, its collections 
process would have still taken place, so Miss F would still have ended up with a default 
notice and final demand. JL said that the account then defaulted because the settlement 
offer was not chased up by Miss F and JL didnt receive full payment. 
I note JLs views, which focus only on part of this case. I havent changed my mind. 
Miss F said that overall, she was very happy with the points Id made and conclusions Id 
drawn. She did wish to add some comments. 
Miss F said I was right to say her credit file hadnt been updated until April 2022. She said 
before JL removed the default, this was the only unsatisfied or partially satisfied credit 
agreement on her credit file. She said that did affect her credit score, and her attractiveness 
to lenders. She understood mortgage companies had been concerned about the relatively 
recent timing of the default. She accepted that didnt prove JLs actions had caused the 
problems with remortgaging, but said she could categorically say that it didnt help.
Miss F said she didnt follow up her settlement offer with JL, both because she expected 
staff to be back and working, as lockdown had ended, but also because her mental health 
was below par at this time. I note what Miss F has said here. And, drawing on previous 
experience, I do still think its most likely that even if JL had actioned this settlement offer, it 
would not have been accepted.
Miss F also wanted to comment on my proposed award, to say again that she hadnt brought 
this complaint to get compensation. She wanted JL to admit to its mistakes and apologise for 
them. She wanted it to learn from this, so nobody else had to go through the same.
Our service isnt a regulator, and I cannot require JL to behave differently in future. I can only 
look at what happened in Miss Fs individual case, and whats required to put that right. It 
seems to me that Miss F would see little value in an apology which JL is ordered to make, so 
I have not required JL to apologise. I still think some amendments are required to Miss Fs 
credit file. And I think this is a case where our service would usually award compensation. I 
havent changed my mind about the appropriate amount. So Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited must pay Miss F £350 in 
compensation, in addition to the compensation of £100 that it has already paid. And it must 
amend Miss Fs credit file to show her in a payment arrangement on this debt from October 
2021 until the debt is settled. If John Lewis Financial Services Limited has removed the 
default from Miss Fs credit file, it may not restore this now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman