DRN-4110630
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Gold 
account in November 2010.
Mr S has given a number of reasons why he says that the account was mis-sold. These 
include, that the account was inappropriately recommended to Mr S because Mr S was 
experiencing difficult circumstances at the time. Therefore, he feels that Lloyds took 
advantage of him. Mr S says that none of the facts of the account were discussed with him. 
Mr S says that only the positive aspects of having the account were discussed with him, he 
says that none of the overdraft charges were explained to him.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the Gold account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ive started out by considering whether Mr S was given a fair choice. Prior to the sale of the 
account, I can see that Mr S held a fee-free current account. And hed done so for a number 
of years before he chose to upgrade this account. Having read through everything that Mr S 
has said, Ive not seen anything to suggest that the account was presented as though Mr S 
had no choice but to take it out. And given that hed held a fee-free account for some time, 
Im satisfied that Mr S agreed to the Gold account in the knowledge that it was optional and 
that he could continue with a fee-free account if he didnt want it.
I appreciate that Mr S says that hed suffered a bereavement at the time and therefore felt 
vulnerable. Im sorry to hear about this, and Ive no doubt it wouldve been a difficult period 
for Mr S. However, as outlined above, Ive not seen anything that suggests Mr S was given 
the impression he had to have the account or that he was unable to decline Lloyds offer  
especially if he quite understandably had his mind on other matters at the time. 
Furthermore, given that Mr S was clearly aware that fee-free accounts were available to him, 
I see no reason why Mr S could not have downgraded his account later (as he eventually 
did) if he had second thoughts about whether the account would be worth his while. 
So in the circumstances Im unable to say that Lloyds has acted unreasonably in this regard. 
I say this especially because the evidence Lloyds has provided indicates that Mr S called 
Lloyds to upgrade his account, rather than it being the case that Lloyds called Mr S to try 
and sell the account to him.
Lloyds says that its sales process at the time likely meant it recommended the account to Mr 
S. This meant it had to check that it was a reasonable fit for his circumstances at the time.
In 2010 the Gold account cost £12 per month and included benefits such as worldwide travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover. It also included other benefits 
such as a £100 interest free overdraft facility, as well as lower interest rates on balances 
overdrawn by more than that amount (up to the agreed limit).
The notes from the time suggest that Mr S wanted the account for the travel insurance and 
mobile phone insurance. And the evidence on file indicates that Mr S occasionally travelled 
and had a mobile phone at the time. Indeed, I can see that Mr S went on to claim on the 
travel insurance in 2013 and made a query about the cover in 2015. It also appears that Mr 
S was able to make use of the breakdown cover as well as there is evidence that he made a 
claim in February 2014. 
So taking everything into account, it seems that Lloydss recommendation was reasonable.
As well as ensuring the recommendation is suitable, Lloyds also had to provide Mr S with the 
important information about the account so he understood what he was agreeing to and how 
to use the benefits. Mr S says that none of the facts were presented to him. But Mr Ss 
interaction with the benefits suggest that Mr S had a good appreciation for the account 
features and how to use them. 
I appreciate that Mr S may not have been given all of the important information about the 
account during the sale. However, based on Mr Ss circumstances at the time, and his ability 
to use the benefits, Ive not seen anything that makes me think he wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it.
I note that Mr S says that none of the charges were explained to him. It seems that Mr S was 
aware of the monthly account fee, but not aware of the overdraft charges and implications of 
entering an arranged and unarranged overdraft. However, I should explain that the overdraft 
charges applied to his account were the same whether he had the Gold account or his 
existing fee-free account. So the sale of the Gold account largely had no impact on how 
much Mr S would be charged when using either an arranged or unarranged overdraft. 
Indeed, the only difference being that, by having the Gold account, Mr S wouldve been 
charged less in interest on the times that he used his arranged overdraft i.e. no interest on 
the first £100 of any arranged overdrawn balance, and a lower rate of interest on any 
overdrawn balances above this amount, up to the agreed limit. 
As such, I dont think Mr S wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been 
reminded of Lloyds general overdraft charging structure (that was applicable to his existing 
account), when he added the Gold package to his account.
I note that Mr S has mentioned times where he experienced financial difficulties. Although Mr 
S has not elaborated on specific occasions, I can see that Lloyds has, at various points in 
time, provided support to Mr S with his finances. And from what I can see Lloyds had dealt 
with Mr S in a reasonable manner. For example, prior to the sale of the packaged account, I 
can see that Lloyds helped Mr S reduce his debt by providing him with a gradually reducing 
overdraft limit. 
I can also see that Lloyds had a detailed discussion with Mr S in July 2012, whereby an 
income and expenditure assessment was carried out and what looks to be a repayment 
arrangement. And I can also see times where Lloyds has waived or reduced overdraft 
charges too. 
So on the whole, based on what I have seen, Im unable to say that Lloyds has dealt with Mr 
S unreasonably.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman