DRN-3938562
The complaint
Mr J and Miss J complain about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and the upgrade 
fee theyve had to pay to replace their gas hob with a suitable alternative.
For ease of reference, I will refer to the comments made, and actions taken, by both Mr J 
and Miss J as Miss J throughout the decision.
What happened
Miss J held an insurance policy underwritten by DGI that covered her gas hob. 
Unfortunately, Miss Js hob became faulty and DGI wrote off the appliance in November 
2020.
Miss J remained in contact with DGI about arranging a suitable replacement, and this was 
eventually organised in late 2022. But Miss J was unhappy about this, so she raised a 
complaint.
Miss J was unhappy with the replacements DGI offered her, and she didnt think these 
alternatives where suitable replacements of a similar make and specification. Because of 
this, Miss J felt she had no choice but to pay a £210 upgrade fee to ensure the replacement 
was adequate. So, she wanted this fee to be refunded to her.
DGI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought a suitable replacement of 
similar specifications was offered to Miss J. And as Miss J didnt want to accept this 
replacement, they thought they were fair to charge Miss J an upgrade fee. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Miss J remained unhappy with this response, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They noted DGI were unable to 
evidence the replacements offered to Miss J at the time, as they were offered from a live 
system. So, our investigator looked at live examples themselves, using a retailer DGI 
confirmed they use. And from this, they found the cheapest gas hob to be available at £89, 
with the hob Miss J purchased being available for £299, explaining the £210 upgrade fee 
she paid. But our investigator noted the cheapest hob didnt have cast iron pan supports, 
which Miss Js original hob did have.
Our investigator found the cheapest hob with cast iron supports cost £129 on the live system 
and so, with no further evidence available, our investigator thought DGI shouldve paid £129 
towards the hob Miss J chose, rather than the £89 he assumed had been paid. So, based on 
this, our investigator thought DGI should pay Miss J £40, plus statutory interest from the time 
she paid the upgrade fee, to recognise the financial loss he felt Miss J had been caused.
Miss J accepted this recommendation. But DGI didnt. They didnt think it was fair to use the 
prices shown when our investigator viewed the live system of the retailer, as there wouldve 
been a variance from November 2020 when the hob was first written off due to wider market 
conditions and inflation of goods. They maintained their position that a reasonable 
replacement had been offered and so, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. As 
DGI didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Ive considered, and how.
I recognise there have been significant delays in the ordering of a replacement, from the 
date it was written off. This isnt something Ive considered further, as this isnt the basis of 
Miss Js complaint. Miss Js complaint focuses solely on the replacement she ordered, and 
the upgrade fee she has had to pay.
And to consider this, I recognise both DGI and Miss J have been unable to provide our 
service with evidence that shows exactly what replacement was offered before Miss J chose 
to pay an upgrade fee. In situations such as these, I need to consider what I think is most 
likely to have happened, based on the balance of probability considering the information I do 
have available.
Ive seen the terms of the policy Miss J held at the time her original hob was written off. 
These explain that, where DGI choose to replace a hob rather than repair it, they will 
arrange to replace your appliance with one of a same or similar make and technical 
specification.
In this situation, its accepted Miss Js hob had cast iron pan supports. And its accepted 
these supports form part of the gas hob itself. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Miss J to 
expect any replacement shes offered to have cast iron supports, as I think its reasonable to 
include these supports as part of the specification. I appreciate DGI have suggested this isnt 
the case, but I dont think its fair for DGI to expect a customer to accept a hob without cast 
iron supports when their original contained these.
As Ive explained above, DGI are unable to show the replacement options they put forward 
to Miss J. So, I dont think I can be sure these options did include cast iron supports. Nor can 
I be sure exactly what the cost of these replacements would be.
But I note our investigator, at the time of forming their view, went onto an online retailer 
website DGI confirm they use to look at gas hob prices. And I note the cheapest gas hob 
available, without cast iron supports, was available to purchase for £89.
This is directly £210 cheaper than the gas hob Miss J chose to purchase, which did have 
cast iron supports. So, I think its reasonable to assume, on the balance of probabilities and 
without any additional evidence, that Miss Js upgrade fee was calculated on the extra 
amount to pay on top of this £89 option.
And I note that the cheapest hob available, with cast iron supports, at the time our 
investigator searched was available to purchase at £129. So, £40 more expensive than the 
hob alternative without the cast iron supports.Based on this information, I think its most likely that the replacement option put forward to 
Miss J was a hob without cast iron supports, as the upgrade fee she paid to purchase her 
choice of hob relates directly to the cheapest option available.
And I dont think DGI acted fairly when putting this option to Miss J, as I think they were 
obliged to provide Miss J with a replacement of a similar make and specification, which I 
think means a hob with cast iron supports. 
I appreciate DGI dont agree with this, and Ive considered their point about wider market 
conditions and inflation at length. While I recognise the hob was written off in 2020, Miss J 
didnt order her replacement hob, and pay the upgrade fee, until December 2022. This is 
around two months before our investigator found their own live prices. I dont think its likely 
that prices would have changed significantly during that time and so, I dont think its unfair 
for us to rely on the prices weve found.
And even if I didnt think this was fair, for DGI to rely upon the fairness of the options they 
provided to Miss J, Id expect them to be able to evidence what options these were. I think 
the onus remains on DGI to satisfy me, and our service, that they did act fairly and within the 
terms of the policy they provide. And theyve been unable to do so on this occasion.
As I think DGI acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what I think DGI should do to put things 
right. 
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Miss J back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had DGI acted fairly in the first instance. It is not intended to put Miss J in a position 
of betterment, as any decision I make must remain fair to both parties.
In this situation, had DGI acted fairly, I think they wouldve offered Miss J a replacement that 
included cast iron supports. And from the evidence available to me and our service, I think 
its likely this replacement wouldve cost £129.
From what Ive been able to consider, I think its most likely that the option put to Miss J was 
a cheaper alternative, costing £89, which explains the £210 upgrade fee she paid for the hob 
she eventually chose, costing £299.
So, had DGI acted fairly, I think they wouldve covered the first £129 of this £299 
replacement Miss J chose. And so, I think Miss Js upgrade fee wouldve been £170, rather 
than £210. So, to place Miss J back in the position she wouldve been in, I think DGI should 
refund Miss J £40, to cover this difference. And I think DGI should apply 8% statutory 
interest to this amount, from the date she paid the upgrade fee to the date of refund, to 
acknowledge the length of time shes been without access to these funds.
I note DGI have also agreed to reimburse Miss J the installation costs incurred to install the 
replacement. Miss J should provide DGI with any invoices and receipts regarding this for 
them to consider.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr J and Miss Js complaint about Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Refund Mr J and Miss J £40 of the £210 upgrade fee they paid; andApply 8% statutory interest to this refund, from the date the upgrade fee was paid to 
the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman