DRN-2509471
The complaint
Ms M has complained about the information she received when she reported an incident to 
her insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Privilege.
What happened
In January 2020 Ms M was driving a vehicle which she was insured to drive under her 
employers motor insurance policy. Unfortunately Ms M caused damage to her personal car 
while parking the company vehicle. 
Ms M reported the incident to UKI. There were a series of calls between Ms M and UKI that 
followed during January and February 2020. In February 2020 Ms M complained to UKI as 
she said it had given her different information each time she had spoken with it and she was 
very unhappy about this. 
An agent from UKI called Ms M to discuss her complaint and she agreed for it to be closed. 
However, she remained unhappy and asked us to look at things for her. 
Ms M told us that her employers insurer had decided not to make a claim through their 
insurance due to the damage and value of the company vehicle. But she understood that 
they were still going to deal with her claim for damage to her car. 
Ms M said she had to ask UKI to contact her employers insurer to follow up on the claim 
they were dealing with. She said she wasnt making a claim under her policy with UKI, but 
believed her employers insurer was waiting for UKI to contact them to deal with her claim. 
Ms M said that every time she spoke to UKI, she was given different information. 
Our investigator thought UKI had failed to be clear enough in the calls with Ms M to guide 
her through the claims process as it was clear that UKI hadnt really listened to what Ms M 
was saying about her claim and her understanding of what was happening. For this she 
recommended UKI pay Ms M compensation of £100.
UKI didnt agree. It said there was no confusion. 
As UKI didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all of the call recordings provided by UKI. Ms M correctly reported the incident 
to UKI at the beginning of each call. On 20 January 2020, three days after the incident, Ms M 
first reported the incident. She said she was getting a quote from a local garage for the 
repairs and would contact UKI if she wanted to make a claim. 
On 29 January 2020 Ms M called UKI and asked what the next steps would be. She said 
that her employer was claiming and asked, so do I claim from you or they claim from you?
The agent referred the matter and then told Ms M that she needed to contact her employers 
vehicle insurer as they have insurance on that vehicle and to give her details to them. Ms M 
says that is what she has done, she just wasnt sure if she needed to do anything with her 
insurance. Ms M asked so they will be claiming from their side? and the agent said that 
was correct and told Ms M she needed to contact the other insurer directly. 
On 12 February 2020 Ms M called UKI and explained that shed provided photos and details 
to her employers vehicle insurer and she understood they were dealing with her claim, but 
theyve asked her to contact UKI to chase the claim up. Ms M says she would have thought 
the claim would have gone under her insurance as a fault claim or something, but she also 
thought the claim would have gone through the insurer of the vehicle she was driving. 
At this stage, the agent proceeded to log a claim for Ms M for the damage to her car. Toward 
the end of the call, the agent asked Ms M if she wanted to claim for the damage to her 
vehicle today. Ms M said no. She said; I didnt think I needed to, thats what I dont 
understand. I thought the claim would go through on the insurance of the (company vehicle 
name).
The agent said that if Ms M says yes to claiming, UKI will look to get the (employer vehicle) 
insurance company to pay out for the damages to her vehicle. Ms M asked if it would affect 
her premiums in the future to which the agent said he couldnt answer that. Ms M asked if 
she was claiming off her insurance. He agent said technically yes. But we are then claiming 
from the insurer of the (vehicle name) 
Ms M said; OK. I didnt realise it worked that way. I thought the claim was going on the other 
side and that would pay for my car.
The agent said Ms M had the option of claiming directly through the employer vehicle 
insurance and Ms M said she thought that was what she was doing. But they had asked her 
to chase up her insurer. Half an hour into the call, the agent explains that an excess of £400 
is due under the claim, but as its being treated as a non-fault claim, the excess will be 
waived. The agent goes on to refer Ms M for credit hire and Ms M is guided by the agent in 
relation to the options for garage repairs.
The following day Ms M called UKI and said the approved repairer called her to say they 
wouldnt be able to provide her with a replacement car due to her circumstances. The agent 
put Ms M on hold to refer the matter. He then told Ms M that UKI cannot deal with her claim 
as a non-fault claim as she was the driver of the vehicle that hit her car, so she cannot be 
her own third party. He explained that as Ms M has hire car plus benefit under her policy he 
will arrange for a different hire car company to contact her to arrange a replacement car 
while hers is being repaired. He said he will arrange for an engineer to inspect Ms Ms car 
so that she can use her chosen garage to carry out the repairs and she will be contacted. 
UKI called Ms M back a few minutes later to tell her that the claim would be treated as a fault 
claim and she would be responsible for the excess of £400. Ms M says she has been given 
different information each time she speaks to UKI. She said she will double check with her 
garage as to the costs of the repairs as it might not be worth claiming. 
Ms M explained that the employers vehicle insurer arent intending to make a claim as it 
wasnt worth it for the damage to their vehicle. The agent says in that case if Ms M doesnt 
make a claim, there will be no claim recorded against her policy. On 17 February 2020 Ms M called UKI to say shed received a call from a garage arranging 
collection of her car, but she cancelled it and wanted to know what the situation was. She 
said the employers vehicle insurer was waiting for UKI to contact them. 
After putting Ms M on hold for several minutes, the agent says UKI can provide a hire car for 
a maximum of 21 days while her car is being repaired. Ms M asked if this would be at no 
cost under her policy. The agent said yes. 
Later in the same call, the agent said it would be treated as a fault claim as Ms M cannot be 
a third party to herself. Ms M said after finding out the excess payable is £400; I cant get 
my head around this. I appreciate it was my fault but I was driving the other car under that 
insurance. So why do I have to pay an excess under my insurance because Im not claiming 
 they are?
The agent goes on to say that there is no third party to claim from, and so it will need to be 
treated as a fault claim. UKI thought it would be a non-fault claim but it wont be. Ms M 
repeats that she isnt claiming under her insurance, her employers vehicle insurance are 
claiming for her damages under their policy. 
UKI received a call from the employers vehicle insurer later that day. They said they were 
asked to call UKI by Ms M. They said they were dealing with the repairs to the vehicle Ms M 
was driving, but that UKI was to deal with the repairs to Ms Ms car. They said if UKI didnt 
need to discuss anything, then it would leave things as they are. 
The final call on the same day came from UKI to Ms M. An agent said following his 
discussion with the employers vehicle insurer that UKI wont be able to cover her claim at all 
 even as a fault claim. He said Ms Ms policy says in the event she is responsible for the 
damage, this isnt covered. Ms M asks if the claim would be covered even if she paid the 
excess of £400. The agent said no and concluded that it wouldnt be able to honour her 
claim. 
The term UKI was relying on from the policy says under the section What is not covered;
damage caused by any driver insured by this policy to any property they own or are 
responsible for
Ms M said how unhappy she was with the different information UKI had given her and the 
call ended. 
On 18 February 2020 UKI called Ms M to discuss her complaint. The agent told her she 
could definitely make a claim for the damage to her car, but it would be treated as a fault 
claim. The agent explained that Ms Ms No Claims Discount (NCD) is protected so this claim 
wont affect this. For now, Ms M said she wanted to close the claim. The agent said if she 
changed her mind she could contact it and it will reopen her claim. The agent asked Ms M if 
she was happy for her complaint to be closed, but Ms M said she remained unhappy about 
the different information shed been given by UKI in the calls. The agent said he appreciated 
this, but it wouldnt change the outcome. So on that basis, Ms M agreed for her complaint to 
be closed and contacted us.
Its clear from the calls that Ms M isnt sure how the claim will be made and how or why this 
would affect her policy. This may or may not have been made worse by how her employers 
vehicle insurer communicated  as to the claims process and how it would work. I cannot 
consider the actions of the other insurer, only the insurer of Ms Ms car, UKI. But from the 
call between them and UKI, the employers vehicle insurer said they were not dealing with 
Ms Ms claim for damage to her car. Its also very clear that UKI provided Ms M with different information about her claim each 
time she spoke with them. UKI as the insurer is the party with knowledge of how the policy 
and claims operate. It was aware of the circumstances of the incident from the first call and 
Ms M consistently repeated the details in each subsequent call. So I think UKI could have 
made Ms M aware of the exclusion from the outset when she called for guidance on the 
claim. It certainly should have advised her of the exclusion when she called on 29 January 
2020 when it instead set up a claim as a non-fault claim. At the very least it knew the claim 
couldnt be classed as a non-fault claim. And even by applying the exclusion, this didnt 
prevent Ms M from making a claim at all. 
I accept that there are situations when a claim which initially appears to be a non-fault claim 
can change if liability isnt accepted. But in this case, UKI knew the circumstances of the 
incident, and had referred the matter to check each time, but still provided Ms M with 
incorrect information. 
Its not clear to me how UKI has reached the conclusion that there was no confusion as 
confusion in the communications to and from Ms M are evident throughout. I can therefore 
understand why Ms M lost confidence in the information UKI gave her. 
As the other insurer said it wasnt going to deal with Ms Ms claim for repairs to her car, this 
means that Ms M was left with the option to make a claim under her policy with UKI. This 
would be treated as a non-fault claim and the excess would be correctly due.
Putting things right
I think UKI didnt do enough to clearly explain the claims process to Ms M and provided 
differing information to her on several different occasions. For this I think UKI should pay Ms 
M compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. I think £100 is fair and 
reasonable in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require U K Insurance Limited 
trading as Privilege to pay Ms M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the differing information it gave her. 
Privilege must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms M 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Privilege considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much its taken off. It should also give Ms M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman