DRN-2313262
Complaint
Mrs B has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
the responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision. 
Background
Mrs B bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill now explain why.
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gain  
Mrs Bs consent before adding it to her store card. However, Mrs B has said that PPI was 
not discussed and she did not ask for it. Mrs B believes it was added without her consent or 
knowledge. 
 
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Bs store card application form from the time of sale. The 
form has a section for the PPI titled Account Cover and requires applicants to sign this 
section if they wish to take out the PPI. The section reads (Only sign this box if you require 
Account cover) and you had to sign underneath Yes, I would like to protect my Account 
with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). . Mrs B has signed this section, indicating she 
wanted the cover added to her account.
Ive also noted that on the application form, Mrs B had the option of selecting whether or not 
she wanted Card Protection Plan. Mrs B didnt select this product, so I think she would have 
known she had a choice about taking out either product. 
The difficultly I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs B and the store 
assistant when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Taking all of this into consideration, in the absence of anything else to support what Mrs B 
has told me, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for to me to say that AXA didnt make 
Mrs B aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI. And I dont think she would have 
signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out. 
Both parties agree that the PPI wasnt recommended to Mrs B, which means AXA didnt 
have to check if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mrs B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. I also havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mrs B.
Mrs B has told us she would have received at least six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. In addition to this, she 
says she could have relied on her husband if she needed to. 
Having thought about what Mrs B has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs B would have received from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI also would 
have paid a benefit if Mrs B was ever made redundant. 
Ive considered what Mrs B has said about being able to rely on her husband to help her with 
her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt useful for her. While    
Mrs Bs husband may have wanted to help, his financial situation could change, so this help 
couldnt always be relied on.
So overall, I think Mrs B could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman