DRN-3399835
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc hasnt reimbursed her after she was the victim of a 
scam.
What happened
Ms H has said around June 2020 she met someone online she entered into a romantic 
relationship with. This person, who turned out to be a scammer, told her he needed her to 
send money to his sick family members in another country. Around six months after they 
started speaking she says the scammer started to threaten and intimidate her into sending 
money by claiming he had family members in government organisations and she would be in 
danger if she refused his requests for money.
In total, Ms H made card payments of over £33,000 from her Santander account to various 
money transfer services so she could send it on to individuals the scammer was working 
with. Between July 2020 and February 2021 shes said she made 12 individual payments of 
between approximately £1,000 and £4,000.
Ms H contacted Santander in March 2021 to report shed been the victim of a scam. She felt 
it ought to have recognised the unusual activity on her account and that she was vulnerable 
and stopped the payments being made. Santander felt that as the payments were correctly 
authorised using her card and PIN it wasnt at fault.
Ms H brought the complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it. As Ms H 
didnt accept this, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the payments Ms H made in this case were authorised even though she 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. The payments were made by her, using her card and 
PIN and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her 
account, Ms H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But, Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Santander should fairly and reasonably have been on the look out for any unusual activity 
that might be indicative of a scam or that Ms H was at risk of financial harm.
Ms H has said she was vulnerable and that shed never made payments to money transfer 
services before. She feels this shouldve been enough to alert Santander to a problem and it 
shouldve done more to help her. Shes also said Santander had an obligation to ensure the 
name of the person she was paying matched who she intended to pay in line with its money 
laundering obligations. But, having considered these points carefully, and the evidence 
available overall, Im satisfied Santander hasnt acted unreasonably here.
Ms H has described herself as vulnerable because she was the victim of the scam. And I 
can understand why the nature of this particular scam, especially given how emotionally 
involved she was with the scammer, not to mention the subsequent threats she endured, 
wouldve left her feeling very vulnerable. But Santander can only act on vulnerability its 
aware of, or ought reasonably to be aware of. In this case Ms H has confirmed her only 
vulnerability is the scam itself rather than any other factor shed previously informed it of or 
feels it shouldve identified. So essentially, the vulnerability shes described still comes down 
to whether or not Santander ought to have recognised she was the victim of a scam. 
The only information Santander wouldve known about Ms Hs circumstances was the use of 
her account during the period in question. As Ive explained above, her card and PIN have 
been used to make each transaction. So as far as Santander wouldve been aware, Ms H 
was likely authorising the transactions herself.
Ive carefully considered whether I think any other factors ought to have concerned 
Santander, such as how her account was being used to make the payments, but overall I 
dont think so. Ive considered Ms Hs account statements in the year leading up to the scam 
payments themselves. During this time she made a considerable amount of substantial 
transfers and cash withdrawals for significantly higher amounts than the ones involved in the 
scam. So I dont think the payments she made to money transfer services wouldve stood 
out as significantly unusual based on the amounts involved. They are in line with the existing 
pattern of spending on her account.
Ms H has argued that because the payments were made to money transfer services, which 
she hadnt used before, this shouldve alerted Santander to a problem. But I dont agree this 
alone is an indication of fraud. I wouldnt expect Santander to stop every payment that goes 
to a service a customer hasnt used before. It has to strike a balance in monitoring accounts 
and preventing fraud with not unduly hindering a customers general use of their account. 
And its reasonable to expect that from time to time an individual might make payments to a 
new retailer. 
There are a number of other factors Santander should consider when monitoring its 
accounts and looking for risks, but again I dont think any apply in this case. The payments 
Ms H made to the scammer were days and weeks apart and overall took place over a six 
month period, so werent in quick succession. They did bring her account balance down to 
around £1,000 when a year earlier it had been in the hundreds of thousands. But, Ms H 
didnt appear to receive any income into this account and the majority of her transactions 
were outgoing, so for the year leading up to the scam her account balance was being 
continually reduced by every transaction  the majority of which didnt form part of the scam. 
And, she was still making significant payments to regular payees  regularly in the 
thousands  leading up to the end of the scam. 
Ms H has mentioned that the bank was obliged to check the person she was paying 
matched the details given. What shes referred to doesnt apply here. Ms H was making card 
payments to money transfer services or the agent taking payments for the services. 
Santander wouldnt have known, or been responsible for making sure any onward payment 
with other services was going to the person she intended. The money transfer services were 
the intended recipients of the payments Ms H was making, and they correctly received the 
money.Im sorry to hear of what Ms H went through. I can see it mustve been really difficult and 
emotionally distressing for her. But Santander hasnt acted unfairly in this case so isnt liable 
for her loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman