DRN-2766896
The complaint
Mr S complains that hes received a letter ab out a debt owed to TSB Bank plc in relation to 
an account which he says he cleared many years ago.
What happened
In September 2000 Mr S opened a current account with TSB. In 2014 the account reached 
its overdraft limit. Mr S didnt repay the overdraft and the account was defaulted and 
subsequently sold to a number of third-party debt collection companies.
In January 2020 Mr S received a letter from a debt collection agency about the account, 
which said there was an outstanding balance of £648.72.
Mr S didnt think the account belonged to him and complained to TSB. In response, TSB 
said the debt related to the account opened in September 2000 and that there was no 
evidence to suggest that the account did t belong to Mr S.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator thought there was enough information to show that the account belonged to 
Mr S and said that TSB had acted fairly in pursuing the debt.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed previously cleared the account in 2014 and that TSB was 
pursuing the debt in error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information provided by TSB. This shows that Mr S opened an account in 
September 2000 in his name. Later, in 2012, he opened an ISA in the same name. TSB has 
confirmed that letters and statements were sent to Mr S about the account, including an 
arrears letter in September 2014 and a formal demand in October 2014.
Ive looked at the account history and I can see that the account was overdrawn in 2014. I 
cant see that Mr S made any payments to clear the account. TSB has said that the account 
was transferred to the recoveries team on 29 October 2014.
Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the account belongs to Mr S.
Ive thought about whether TSB has acted fairly in pursuing the debt. Looking at the 
information provided, Im satisfied that TSB took reasonable steps to notify Mr S about the 
overdrawn account and ask him to repay it. Theres no evidence to show that the account 
was repaid. So, Im unbale to say that TSB has acted unfairly or done anything wrong.
I appreciate that Mr S feels very strongly that he closed the account in 2014. Ive looked at 
the statement that hes provided to support this. Whilst I agree that it looks as if the account 
balance has been cleared, what has happened here is that the balance has been charged 
off internally by TSB and the debt passed to recoveries. In the absence of any evidence that 
Mr S made this transaction , Im not persuaded that the account has been cleared.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that Mr S cleared the account, or that TSB 
has made an error in pursuing the debt. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman