DRN-2746341
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim he made under his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of the case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr H has made several complaints relating to this claim which are being dealt with under 
different references at this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Mr Hs policy contains a term which allows AXA to take over the claim and deal with it 
as it sees fit.  AXA initially didnt pay for all of the repair costs to the third-party 
vehicle as it believe some of the damage wasnt accident related.  When the third 
party started court proceedings, it then decided to do so. 
I appreciate Mr H feels that the matter should have progressed to court if AXA was 
so confident in its engineers opinion and it should have defended his position further 
as he felt the damage claim was fraudulent. However, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AXA to choose to settle the claim in full at that point. Court 
proceedings can be expensive, and the amount requested was relatively low in 
comparison. AXA made a commercial decision to settle the claim, which also meant 
the matter was brought to an end for Mr H. I think this was the right thing to do.
AXA recognised it had caused Mr H further confusion and upset and offered him 
£250 compensation. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount. 
Due to the amount of issues experienced with this claim, AXA took the unusual step 
of removing details of the claim from an external database which holds details of all 
insurance claims. It also changed the claim on its database to being notification only 
and it allowed Mr Hs no claims bonus (NCB). Given this was an incident that Mr H 
admitted causing and AXA paid out to repair damage to the third partys vehicle 
(regardless of what the correct amount should have been). I think AXA has been very 
generous in its approach here and it wouldnt have been something I would have 
recommended. 
Mr H has said that while the claim was ongoing his policies were due for renewal and 
the claim status meant he was charged higher premiums. Mr H will need to take this 
matter up with his new insurer(s). This isnt something I will hold AXA responsible for. 
Mr H has further outlined the impact this claim had on him overall and by extension 
his family. Hes explained the anger he feels towards the way AXA dealt with things, 
he had to continually chase progress, promises made to him were broken and he 
doesnt feel AXA has fully admitted it has treated him poorly. Having received the 
claim as a whole, I can see Mr H has received £1,000 in compensation in total, in 
addition as outlined above it has changed how the claim has been recorded and 
allowed his NCB. AXA has also apologised on multiple occasions. In light of this, I do 
think AXA has recognised its shortcomings and compensated Mr H generously. I 
therefore wont be asking it to do anything more.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman