DRN-3883551
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) allowed his new debit card 
details to be passed to a third-party insurance company without his authority. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will be disappointing to Mr L, I dont think we can provide 
all the answers he would like us to. I am aware he would like us to consider his complaint in 
the round against all parties involved. But each individual case is set up against an individual 
party, in this case RBS. Because of that, within this decision I can only consider the actions 
of RBS, which is what I have done. And while I can take into account relevant law and 
regulatory guidelines, I ultimately have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr L is unhappy that when he telephoned his insurance company to make a payment, they 
had details of his new RBS debit card which he had not passed onto them personally. After 
researching how this could have happened, he found out about a scheme his card provider 
has, who we will call V for the purposes of this decision, which automatically updates 
merchants with a consumers new card details. Mr L says that he did not ask to be enrolled 
in this scheme and that RBS must be involved in some way as they issue his debit cards. 
Ive considered RBS actions carefully, considering the terms and conditions of the account 
and their privacy policy, and having done so I have not found that RBS has acted unfairly. I 
agree with Mr L that there is no specific mention of the scheme in RBS terms and 
conditions. So, Ive looked at the account terms and conditions to see what provisions are 
made for sharing information. In section 14.7 it states: 
We will not share your information with anyone outside NatWest (meaning the NatWest 
Group that includes RBS) except:
where required, whether directly or indirectly, for your product or service;
with third parties providing services to uswhere advice or services are required or 
requested in connection with the banks legal, regulatory or contractual rights or 
obligations relating to products or services provided to you.
While I appreciate the fact that Mr L did not opt-in to the scheme, Im satisfied that the 
account terms do allow RBS to share Mr Ls private information with other companies such 
as V in order to continue to provide services effectively. In this case, RBS has said they 
would have provided V with Mr Ls new debit card details, which the terms and conditions 
allow. My understanding is that V would then have updated the card details saved with 
merchants. 
RBS has stated by using V as their card scheme provider, they were obliged to automatically 
enrol in the scheme and pass on the relevant information to V. And I think this ties in with the 
terms and conditions as set out above which state they can share information with third 
parties providing services to them where they are obliged to in relation to a product provided 
to Mr L.
Mr L has said that RBS terms and conditions state that if they provide a new service, they 
have to provide notice of this within 30 days of the service starting. Mr L deems the scheme 
to be a new service and so thinks he should have been notified when it started. Ive 
considered this carefully and I dont agree that RBS has provided a new service, so I dont 
think they were required to notify Mr L of it. I say this because Im satisfied that the service is 
being provided by V, and not RBS. So, I dont think the term Mr L has highlighted applies in 
this instance. 
Mr L has tried to contact V and asked a number of questions about the scheme, but has 
unfortunately not received a response. Because of this, he has asked RBS to contact V on 
his behalf. Hes said that they should contact V as his contract is with RBS and RBS has a 
relationship with V. While I can understand why Mr L would like some answers from V about 
the scheme and how it works, I dont think RBS has a responsibility to contact V on his 
behalf. While I appreciate that RBS provides the debit cards that V provides the payment 
system for, the scheme is not set up or run by RBS and any issues Mr L may have with it are 
not the responsibility of RBS. Because of this, I think it was reasonable that RBS declined to 
contact V on Mr Ls behalf.
I understand Mr L has been frustrated with RBS throughout this process as he has wanted 
more detailed answers than they have been able to provide at times. And the front-line staff 
have not always been fully aware of what the scheme is and how it works. RBS has awarded 
Mr L £50 compensation for any distress or inconvenience the communication issues have 
caused him. Our investigator felt there were other additional delays in a final response letter 
being sent and in Mr L receiving a response to a letter in December 2021. Because of this, 
she recommended a further £50 compensation. 
Ive thought about this carefully and I appreciate that RBS has caused delays throughout the 
process and have, at times, been unable to fully answer his questions. But I also have to 
consider that Mr L is asking about a product that is provided by a third-party which not all 
RBS staff will have detailed knowledge of. And I consider that RBS initial letter did clearly 
set out as much information as they could provide, so any delays to later letters have not 
had a significant impact on the complaint. Overall, I think the total of £100 compensation 
offered is fair and in line with what I would have recommended in the circumstances. 
Mr L has mentioned the length of time he has spent on this issue and I can see in his 
correspondence how seriously he has taken it. I have to take into consideration that this has 
also been a choice made by Mr L, so I dont think it would be reasonable to hold RBS 
accountable for the time Mr L has invested in this complaint.
Mr L has requested that he be opted-out of the scheme and made this request to RBS. RBS 
said in an earlier letter that while it has been stated that customers can opt-out of the 
scheme, RBS is still working on the process as it is unclear how this is possible. Mr L was 
understandably unhappy with this and I can appreciate his frustration. Since then, RBS has 
provided updates on its progress trying to work out a process to allow its consumers to opt-
out of the scheme. Despite attempts they have been unable to do so.Ive considered this carefully and whether RBS has acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. From what RBS has said, I think they have reasonably taken steps to try and 
find a process to allow its customers to opt-out of the scheme. I understand it is frustrating 
for Mr L that they have not been able to do this, considering his strength of feeling on the 
matter. But I cant reasonably fine or punish RBS because they have been unable to find a 
way forward to allow customers to be opted-out of the scheme. And I cannot force them to 
do something they are unable to do. So, while I do understand this is not the outcome that 
Mr L is looking for, I do not instruct RBS to take any further steps to remedy this point. 
In summary, I dont think RBS has made an error when they shared Mr Ls information with 
V, and I dont think they are responsible for what V then did with that information. I dont 
think it was unreasonable that RBS could not provide Mr L with answers to all of his 
questions, as they did not provide the service which Mr L was unhappy with. While it is 
disappointing that RBS has not provided Mr L with the opportunity to opt-out of the scheme, I 
dont think it needs to do anything to remedy this. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in part and direct it to pay 
him £100 compensation if it has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman