DRN-3151340
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy about the poor service he received for his escape of water claim under his 
home insurance policy with esure Insurance Limited (esure).
What happened
Mr F has home insurance with esure. On 1 March 2021 he contacted them about a burst 
pipe. esure instructed contractors to visit Mr Fs property to install drying equipment and 
remove the damaged flooring. 
Mr F said that on 13 March 2021, esures contractors removed the laminate flooring in his 
kitchen. He said there were no asbestos tiles there. He said the contractors fully removed 
asbestos floor tiles from his hall. But that these were removed with the use of force. He said 
this caused them to be smashed into pieces. Mr F said that he and his wife helped the 
contractors to remove the tiles, which were difficult to remove. And that he asked the 
contractors if the tiles being removed contained asbestos and was reassured that they didnt. 
Mr F said that he still has asbestos tiles in his living room.
At the end of March 2021, Mr F got a quote from a new builder for new floors. He said the 
builder told him the old tiles contained asbestos. A test taken a few days later confirmed that 
they did.
On 29 March 2021 esure completed an air test on Mr Fs home. This showed that the fibre 
count for asbestos was low. esure also told Mr F that their contractors had encapsulated the 
hall floor after removing the tiles so there was and is very little risk to Mr F and his family. But 
Mr F disputed that the floor had been encapsulated. He also said that the test had been 
carried out weeks after the tiles were removed. Mr F also expressed concern that a 
dehumidifier was in operation during this time. So asbestos fibres may have contaminated 
his property. 
Mr F complained to esure. He was concerned that the removal of the tiles hadnt been done 
safely and had endangered his family. 
In their 11 May 2021 final response letter, esure didnt uphold the complaint. They said that 
the laminate flooring had to be removed and that during that process, one of the tiles 
became stuck to the laminate as it was being lifted. They said that the tiles were bagged and 
lifted on the underside of the laminate. And that they were then disposed of. esure said that 
PVA encapsulation was then applied to the floor.
esure acknowledged that Mr Fs builder had raised concerns about the presence of 
asbestos. So they said theyd arranged for the tiles to be tested. They said theyd also 
arranged for air samples to be taken to check if any asbestos fibres were present.
The tile test confirmed the presence of white asbestos. esure said that these only become a 
concern if theyre broken up. And they didnt think this had happened. They also said that the 
air test showed low readings for the number of asbestos fibres present, which indicated that 
there was no safety issue. esure said that as the tests indicated there was no danger from 
the floor tiles, they couldnt uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with esures response, Mr F brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
felt his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that Mr F was genuinely concerned for 
his familys safety due to esures contractors not following the correct process when handling 
materials containing asbestos. She considered that the period over which Mr F was 
reasonably concerned there was a serious risk was relatively short. And therefore felt that 
compensation of £300 for the distress thatd been caused was appropriate. She also felt that 
esure should reimburse Mr F for the cost of the asbestos test he carried out, including 8% 
simple interest. 
esure agreed with our investigator. But Mr F didnt. He felt that the compensation our 
investigator had recommended wasnt enough for esures failings, and the impact of those 
failings on him and his family.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But I expect this will still be disappointing for Mr F. I 
agree with our investigator that £300 compensation is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of the complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that esures handling of Mr Fs claim led to considerable worry for him and 
his family. What remains for me to decide is whether esure, in agreeing to our investigators 
recommendation, will have done enough to put things right.
I agree with our investigator that the evidence provided doesnt persuasively show that Mr 
Fs flooring was encapsulated. I also agree that on balance of probabilities its more likely 
than not that esures contractors didnt follow the guidance for removing asbestos 
appropriately. I also agree with our investigator that its more likely than not that the 
contractors broke the tiles when they removed them. Therefore Im satisfied that Mr F and 
his family were briefly at risk of asbestos exposure.
Mr F gave a number of reasons he felt the £300 compensation esure had agreed to wasnt 
enough for this failing. Ill consider those points now.
Removal of all of the remaining asbestos tiles, some of which are cracked
Mr F said hes been left with asbestos tiles in the living room: which esure had no intention 
of removing or contributing towards their removal.
Mr Fs policy document lists various general exclusions. It states:
We will not cover the following:
-The removal of asbestos
As the policy terms exclude the removal of asbestos, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to ask esure to pay to have the remaining tiles removed as Mr F has requested.Deep clean using specialistic equipment/Provision of alternative accommodation
Mr F said that his house wasnt deep cleaned after the asbestos exposure. And that esure 
had no intention of rectifying this. He said: The guidelines state protecting furniture and 
equipment and then decontamination with class H specialistic vacuum cleaner. And that 
nothing like this had been arranged by esure for his property. 
esure said that if asbestos fibres had been released between 13 March 2021 and 29 March 
2021, when the air test was carried out, they wouldnt have left the property. They said they 
wouldve been detected in the air test. But they said they werent detected.
Mr F said that the test was conducted two and a half weeks after the incident. He said the 
asbestos removal companies that hed contacted had told him that the air test shouldve 
been carried out up to 48 hours after the exposure. He also said that esure had initially 
agreed to put him and his family into temporary accommodation if the tile test for asbestos 
came back positive. But that theyd changed their mind and instead arranged for the air 
quality test to be carried out. He said he felt esure had done this deliberately knowing that 
the test result would be in their favour, as the asbestos fibres wouldve settled down. He said 
that the correct procedure wouldve been to take several dust samples from various areas 
within his house and then conduct the test against these.
I acknowledge Mr Fs strength of feeling on this issue. But, based on the evidence of the air 
test readings, Im not satisfied that theres enough evidence that a deep clean of the house 
is warranted. Ive not got enough evidence that the air test wasnt correctly conducted. So 
Im persuaded that it can be relied on. Therefore Im not persuaded that the house requires a 
deep clean. Or that alternative accommodation shouldve been provided. 
Disposal of all affected household equipment thats been contaminated by asbestos
Before the asbestos test was carried out, drying equipment was in use in the property. Mr F 
says he was concerned about asbestos fibres being released into his property. Because of 
this, he says he feared his soft furnishings had been contaminated. Im not clear whether or 
not he has already replaced these, but he would like esure to cover the cost of their 
replacement. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Fs concerns here. I can understand his wish to ensure that 
no contaminated items were left in his house. But from what Ive seen, esure carried out an 
air test to check whether any disturbed asbestos had contaminated the surrounding area. 
This test was negative, which indicates to me that it is unlikely Mr Fs soft furnishings were 
contaminated by asbestos.
Ultimately, I havent seen enough evidence that Mr Fs soft furnishings were contaminated 
by asbestos. So I dont think it would be fair to ask esure to pay for their replacement. 
Floor no longer level after failed floor removal.
Mr F told this service that he cant fit a replacement floor in the hall as its no longer level 
after the tiles were removed by esures contractor.
esure told this service that Mr F was offered a cash settlement on 14 May 2021 by email. 
They said they have yet to receive acceptance.
In her view, our investigator noted that this complaint is about how esure handled Mr Fs 
claim  specifically focussing on how esure dealt with the removal of asbestos. She noted 
that Mr F hadnt raised a complaint with esure about the way the claim has been settled. And said that Mr F would need to raise this with esure first. She said that if esure cant resolve 
this, the issues can be brought to our service. I fully agree with what our investigator said. So 
Im not able to comment on this particular issue in this decision.
Other issues raised by Mr F
Mr F told this service that he thought the Ombudsman would carry out an inspection of his 
property to check the floor condition and how difficult it is to remove asbestos tiles from the 
floor. Unfortunately, were not able to provide that service. We make our decisions based on 
the facts and evidence available in each case. Either side can tell us what they remember 
saying or being told. But we dont produce evidence ourselves. 
Distress and inconvenience compensation
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr F has told this service about the issues with his 
claim and the impact on his family. I do understand that this mustve been a difficult and 
stressful time for them. And I can see that its possible his wifes health has been affected by 
the claim. Im grateful to Mr F for sharing medical details with this service. But unfortunately I 
dont have enough evidence to directly link Mr Fs wifes health issues to the poor service he 
received from esure. But taking into account everything that happened, I think £300 is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation for the issues that were caused by esure.
Putting things right
esure Insurance Limited must take the following actions:
pay Mr F £300 compensation for the trouble and upset theyve caused him.
reimburse Mr F for the cost of the asbestos test he carried out, including 8% simple 
interest to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
esure Insurance Limited must take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman