DRN-3749434
The complaint
Mrs M complains Santander UK Plc didnt complete reasonable affordability checks before 
approving her for a mortgage and additional borrowing.
What happened
In 1997 Santander approved Mrs M and a joint account holder with a mortgage. The 
mortgage was for around £76,000.
Mrs M requested a transfer of equity (ToE) in 1999 to remove the joint account holder and 
change the mortgage into her sole name; and around this time, she also requested further 
borrowing of £10,000 to buy out the joint party. Both requests were approved. Mrs M went 
on to borrow an additional £31,000 in 2002 by way of further borrowing; and between 2003 
and around 2007 Mrs M used the flexible facility of her mortgage to borrow additional funds 
up to a pre-approved and agreed limit; which Mrs M increased by £45,000 in 2004, and a 
further £20,000 in 2005 when she also extended the term to 20 years. Mrs M has said that at 
the time of the last limit increase in 2005, and following withdrawals up to the limit of the 
flexible facility, her total mortgage liability was around £187,000. In 2006 the term of Mrs Ms 
mortgage was amended to 35 years.
In 2016 Mrs M sold her property and the mortgage was redeemed for around £150,000.
Mrs M complained to Santander in June 2021 stating the borrowing was unaffordable for 
her. She said Santander shouldnt have approved the ToE or any further borrowing from that 
point onwards. Santander issued its final response in September 2021, not upholding 
Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of the mortgage and further borrowing; but offering £100 
compensation for poor service provided during its complaint handling. Unhappy with 
Santanders response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service for review. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he considered 
the evidence Santander had obtained at the point of each lending request, and which it 
presented to our service (although limited due to the passage of time), led him to consider it 
had assessed Mrs Ms lending requests in line with the guidance and regulatory obligations 
in place at the time of each separate lending decision. So, he concluded it had made fair 
decisions to lend and fair decisions when amending the term of Mrs Ms mortgage. 
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators findings. She provided a great level of detail in 
response. Ive summarised Mrs Ms response taking into account what I consider to be the 
main points:
The ToE and all further borrowing was unaffordable and Santander would have 
known this had it completed detailed affordability checks;
Our service should support vulnerable consumers against huge businesses like 
Santander, and that it was aware of her vulnerabilities; 
Just because a business regulatory obligations have changed over time doesnt 
mean its practices before that were correct, or that it shouldnt have previously 
adhered to the higher standards that are now in place. Mrs M has provided links to 
published information from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Bank of 
England (BoE) to support her stance about these higher standards; and
There is a case study on our website about affordable lending which draws parallels 
to her own complaint.
Our investigator issued a further response explaining why, after reviewing this information, 
his outcome on Mrs Ms complaint didnt change. 
Mrs M responded reiterating her position. She didnt accept our investigators findings and 
asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has provided a great level of detail throughout the complaint journey with our service. 
This has covered details about her past and the financial impact and health impact Mrs M 
has said shes suffered before, during and after Santanders lending decisions  which shes 
said have been impacted by experiences within her life and Santanders lending decisions. 
Some of this covers periods before Mrs M was provided the mortgage and further borrowing 
with Santander from 1997 onwards; and also covers the time after Santanders last lending 
decision, but it does help to provide an overall picture of Mrs Ms circumstances. 
Id like to assure Mrs M that I have carefully reviewed all of her submissions, as well as all of 
the evidence from Santander when reaching my decision. But my decision does focus on 
what I consider to be the key points relevant to the complaint. 
Id also like to let Mrs M know that Ive listened to the calls she had with our investigator in 
relation to the view he reached, to understand her position on his outcome, as well as 
reviewing the written responses shes sent. 
Santander has said it has limited records dating back to the lending decisions. Given the 
time thats passed since these lending decisions were made, I dont consider this 
unreasonable. But this does mean that where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, 
that Ive reached my decision based on what I consider, on balance, was more likely to have 
happened in the individual circumstances at those times. 
The lending Santander provided spans across years where different guidance and regulatory 
obligations were in place. So, Ive considered whether Santanders actions at each of the 
relevant lending decisions met the requirements of the relevant guidance, good industry 
practice and rules and regulations in place at those times. 
I think it would be helpful for me to set out from the start that Im not upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs M. 
By not upholding the complaint Im not suggesting Mrs M wasnt experiencing financial 
difficulties; or that I doubt her testimony that she struggled to make payments to the 
mortgage and borrowed money from other lenders and family to maintain her monthly 
commitments. But based on the checks Santander completed, and taking into account the 
guidance and rules and regulations in place at those times, I dont consider it ought 
reasonably to have concluded any of the borrowing was unaffordable; or that Mrs M was 
using it for purposes other than which shed declared to Santander. So, I cant conclude that 
its lending decisions were unfair  or the term extensions were unreasonable. Ive gone on to explain why Ive reached this outcome, and answered Mrs Ms other 
complaint points under separate headings to be as clear and concise as possible, while 
keeping to what I consider to be the key points. 
The lending decisions and amendments to the mortgage from 1997 up to and including 
October 2004
  
The majority of the lending provided to Mrs M was during a period where the guidance 
Santander needed to follow was set out under The Mortgage Code. This voluntary Code, 
which Santander (under the names of Abbey National and Abbey at various times during this 
period) followed, was in place between July 1997 to October 2004, and it set out standards 
of good mortgage lending practice to be followed as a minimum by those that subscribed to 
it. It detailed what a lenders affordability assessment might include but, its important to 
note, wasnt prescriptive. This included criteria like: 
A customers income and commitments;
A customers financial history;
Information obtained from credit reference agencies or other parties;
Verification of identify and the purpose of the borrowing;
Credit scoring;
A customers age; and
Details of the security being provided. 
So, Ive considered the lending decisions and amendments Santander made which were 
covered by The Mortgage Code based on this guidance. Ive also taken into account that 
these lending decisions were approved on a non-advised basis.
Mrs M hasnt complained about the initial sale in 1997  only the ToE and further borrowing 
after this time. So, Ive not considered the initial sale in this decision as this isnt in dispute. 
Under the time of The Mortgage Code Santander approved Mrs M:
The ToE to her sole name in 1999;
£10,000 additional borrowing to buy out the joint partys equity in 1999;
£31,000 additional borrowing as part of a mortgage conversion in 2002;
A flexible facility which ran alongside her mortgage and allowed her to borrow up to a 
pre-approved limit which appears to have been for around £17,000 in 2003; and
An increase to the flexible limit by £45,000 in 2004.
Mrs M has said that affordability of the mortgage when in joint names was maxed out, and 
that she therefore fails to understand how Santander can justify any of the affordability 
checks it completed when approving the ToE and all additional borrowing. Shes gone on to 
say that the additional borrowing was primarily used to pay for, which Mrs M later found out, 
scams. As a result of this Mrs M says she didnt benefit from the further borrowing. Shes 
said had Santander completed more detailed checks it would have identified the lending 
wasnt affordable for her. 
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ms testimony, but I cant agree with her conclusions. I say this 
because I consider, on balance and based on the evidence Santander has been able to 
provide, that it did complete affordability assessments broadly in line with the criteria set out 
under the Mortgage Code. 
For each lending decision Santander has generally been able to provide details of Mrs Ms 
income which it verified by way of her payslips. There are details about Mrs Ms expenses and Santander had the historic running and management of the mortgage to take into 
account, which at each lending decision showed it was being maintained well and always 
paid in full. It also obtained the purpose of the lending which Mrs M generally declared as 
home improvements and/or to repay other debt. The evidence suggests the total borrowing 
across this period wasnt higher than just over five times Mrs Ms income  which wasnt an 
uncommon debt to income multiple at the time of this lending; and on its own wouldnt raise 
any concerns. And, from the evidence Santander has provided, it appears the checks 
suggested Mrs M would be left with a level of disposable income each month. In fact, the 
evidence available from the flexible limit increase in early October 2004 suggests Mrs M 
would be saving around £700 per month by consolidating the declared existing debts.
Mrs Ms use of the flexible facility shows debits and credits before the borrowing reaches the 
pre-approved limit. Mrs M was paying funds back into the facility at times while maintaining 
monthly payments to the mortgage in full. So, I dont consider Santander ought reasonably 
to have been concerned or identified any possible affordability issues from Mrs Ms 
management of the facility.
Ive reviewed the income and expenditure spreadsheet Mrs M has provided covering the full 
period the mortgage ran. I acknowledge that by Mrs Ms calculations she was in a negative 
position with her monthly finances from early on in the lending relationship with Santander, 
starting from around 2002. 
While I dont doubt Mrs Ms declarations here, as Ive said above, based on what Santander 
was required to do, I think its checks followed the guidance in place at the time of these 
lending decisions, which didnt indicate any financial distress or that Mrs M wouldnt be able 
to afford the repayments. So, I cant be satisfied that Santanders lending decisions from 
1999 up to and including early October 2004 were unfair. 
It also follows that, as the flexible limit was pre-approved, any further withdrawals up to the 
agreed limit approved in October 2004 didnt require further affordability assessments, and 
therefore arent considered further lending decisions. 
The flexible mortgage limit increase in 2005 and amendments to the mortgage from 2005 
onwards
Santanders last lending decision, the increase of £20,000 to the flexible facility limit, took 
place under different rules and regulations. On 31 October 2004 mortgage regulation came 
into effect and the Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB) rules became the regulatory 
standard mortgage lenders needed to adhere to. The relevant version of MCOB in July 2005 
required a lender to be able to demonstrate that before providing a regulated mortgage 
contract, account was taken of the customers ability to repay. MCOB also prescribed that a 
lender must make an adequate record of this which must be retained for a year from the 
date of the lending. 
In July 2005, Mrs M increased the flexible facility by £20,000 and increased the term of the 
mortgage to 20 years. Santander hasnt got all of the information from that time  but it does 
have a letter from Mrs Ms employer confirming her income, payslips and part of a credit 
check. The income multiplier was again just over five times her income and Mrs M was 
maintaining her mortgage payments. Based on the evidence available to me, I dont consider 
Santander made an unfair decision to lend Mrs M as much as it did. 
The term extension meant the mortgage would have run until Mrs M was under 65 years old, 
which was the state retirement age in place at that time. So, from the evidence I have I cant 
conclude the term extension was unreasonable. In March 2006 Mrs M requested to increase the term of the mortgage to the longest time 
that I am allowed to extend it to. Santander appears to have extended the term to around 35 
years  as a year later a conversion offer was produced which detailed a remaining term of 
just over 33 years. This would therefore mean that the mortgage would run until Mrs M was 
around 78 years old. At the time of this extension MCOB wasnt prescriptive in telling a 
business what checks it needed to complete when lending was proposed to extend into 
retirement. It states that a firm must take account of a customers ability to repay. So, 
Santander could reasonably have taken into account Mrs Ms projected income at retirement 
in order to ensure the mortgage was affordable for her up to the age of 78 years old. 
Santander hasnt been able to provide details of this term extension, so in the absence of 
any evidence to suggest the extension would be unaffordable to Mrs M, I cant safely 
conclude that it was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
The conversion offer in October 2007 removed the flexible facility of Mrs Ms mortgage and 
placed the full mortgage balance of around £187,000 onto a standard mortgage product. The 
application shows this was arranged on a non-advised basis. And as no further lending was 
being provided at this point, it follows that I dont consider Santanders actions unreasonable. 
Additional points Mrs M has raised which Ive considered 
Mrs M raised further points in response to our investigators assessment as I detailed above. 
Ive answered these below, and summarised them again:
Our service should support vulnerable consumers against huge businesses like 
Santander and that Mrs M had made it aware of her vulnerabilities; 
Mrs M has pointed to published articles from the BoE and FCA which details regulation 
within the mortgage market and suggests tighter regulation should have been in place at 
an earlier point in time; and
Mrs M has referenced a case study on our website about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending and draws parallels to her own circumstances and complaint.
Santander has provided contact notes dating back to 2003 which is the earliest its records 
date back to. Having reviewed these notes there is no indication that Santander had been 
made aware of Mrs Ms vulnerabilities before 2012. The contact notes show the earliest 
record it has of any discussion around vulnerabilities was in 2012; where Mrs M suggested 
she may struggle to maintain payments as her husband had lost his job. So, at this point 
Santander was on notice that Mrs M was showing signs of possible financial difficulties and 
as such possible problems with financial resilience. And in 2014 Mrs M contacted Santander 
to ask for consent to have a lodger in the property  possibly indicating again that Mrs M was 
experiencing some financial distress. So, while Mrs M says Santander were aware of her 
vulnerabilities and financial difficulties, the records indicate this was after the lending 
decisions were approved; and appeared to focus on financial difficulties and resilience. 
Santander has confirmed Mrs M continued to maintain her monthly payments after these 
touch points and continued to repay the mortgage in full each month until it was redeemed in 
2016. While I accept Mrs Ms testimony that she maintained the mortgage payments as she 
was aware it was a priority debt and there would be significant consequences if she didnt, I 
cant say Santander ought reasonably to have known about any other possible vulnerabilities 
based on what the records indicate; or that it ought reasonably to have done any more once 
it did become aware of possible financial difficulties as Mrs M continued to maintain her 
monthly payments in full.  
I appreciate Mrs M has pointed to articles published which suggest lenders should have 
conducted more thorough checks at an earlier point in time when providing lending. She says Santander should retrospectively be held accountable to todays regulations and 
obligations when reviewing the lending it provided her. 
While I acknowledge why Mrs M has reached this conclusion, and that she feels Santander 
should have completed more detailed checks, I find I cant agree with her conclusions here. 
My role is to reach a fair and reasonable decision, while taking into account relevant law, 
rules and regulation and good industry practice at the time of the events. As such I cant 
fairly put a higher obligation on Santander than was required of it by its regulator at the time 
of its lending decisions. And it isnt for me or this service to comment on whether the 
regulations in place at the time were reasonable or not; but to decide if, in the individual 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint, Santander acted fairly and reasonably in following the 
obligations, which I have found it did. 
The case study Mrs M has referenced which has been taken from our website isnt as 
suitable a comparison as Mrs M believes. The products are different, and as such the 
relevant rules and regulation we take into account when forming our approach will be 
different. And as Ive already found above, when events took place can significantly alter the 
requirements on a business responsibilities. We review each case on its individual merits 
so, while I understand why Mrs M would have drawn parallels from the case study shes 
reviewed, I cant agree that the approach within the case study has any impact on or 
relevance to the approach taken in the individual details and outcome of her complaint here.
Santander made an offer in its final response of £100 to reflect the delays in its handling of 
Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M will need to contact Santander directly if she wishes to discuss 
this further. 
I know my decision will be disappointing to Mrs M. Its clear she considers failings in 
Santanders practices have impacted her in both a financial and non-financial way. Id like to 
assure her again that although I may not have commented on it all, I have very carefully 
considered all of the information that has been provided by both parties in reaching my 
decision. My decision here is in no way underplaying what Mrs M has gone through and 
continues to go through, as I have no doubt that this has been and continues to be extremely 
difficult for her. 
But, based on the evidence I have, I dont consider Santanders decisions to lend or make 
amendments to the mortgage were unreasonable. As such, it therefore follows I dont 
consider theres any further action Santander needs to take in resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint 
about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman