DRN-3247854
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy with the service she received from Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
surrounding her request for a three-month payment holiday on her loan account and how 
Tesco subsequently reported the repayment history on the account to the credit reference 
agencies.
What happened
Ms L had a loan with Tesco and fell into arrears on the repayments in March 2020. In April 
2020, Ms L contacted Tesco and requested a three-month payment holiday on the account 
because she had been financially impacted by Covid-19. However, because the loan 
account was already in arrears, Tesco werent able to offer the three-month payment holiday 
that Ms L requested and arranged a reduced payment arrangement with her instead. 
At that time, Ms L explained that she intended to clear the growing arrears on her account at 
the end of the reduced payment arrangement, and it was explained to Ms L by Tesco that 
the arrears that grew on her account while the reduced payment arrangement was in place 
would be reported by Tesco to the credit reference agencies. 
When the reduced payment arrangement ended, Ms L wasnt able to clear the arrears as 
shed intended, and she asked Tesco for further help. Tesco agreed to continue to accept 
reduced payments on the account for a further six months, but they also issued a default 
notice to Ms L at that time as the account was now over six months in arrears. This default 
notice explained that the arrears on the account needed to be cleared in full before a set 
date, and that the account may be defaulted by Tesco and reported as such to the credit 
reference agencies if Ms L couldnt clear the arrears by that date.
Approximately ten days after the date by which the full arrears on the account had to be 
paid, Ms L contacted Tesco and explained that she couldnt clear the arrears in full at that 
time. The Tesco agent that Ms L spoke with explained to Ms L that she could disregard the 
default letters and that the reduced payment arrangement remained in place.
About a month later, Ms L noticed that Tesco were reporting her loan account as defaulted 
to her credit file. Ms L wasnt happy about this and felt that Tesco hadnt given her accurate 
information about the consequence of her remaining in a reduced payment arrangement and 
continuing to be unable to make the contractual repayments required on the loan. So, Ms L 
raised a complaint.
Tesco looked at M Ls complaint. They felt that the account had been defaulted correctly, but 
they agreed that their communication with Ms L about this matter should have been clearer. 
Tesco apologised to Ms L for this and offered to pay her £150 as compensation for the 
trouble and upset the matter had caused. Tesco later increased this offer of compensation to 
£250. Ms L wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. 
Tesco continued to liaise with Ms L, and when Ms L explained that she would soon be in a 
position to clear the arrears in full, Tesco offered to remove the default and apply a six-
month payment holiday to her account  on the condition that the arrears on the account 
were cleared.
Ms L did subsequently make a payment to clear the arrears, and Tesco did remove the 
default from her credit file and apply a six-month payment holiday to Ms Ls account from 
that point. However, Ms L wasnt happy that Tesco were reporting missed payments to the 
credit reference agencies for the time that shed been in a reduced payment arrangement, 
and so she asked this service to continue to look into her complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Tesco were reporting the 
repayment history on Ms Ls account accurately and that Tescos response to Ms Ls 
complaint, including the offer of £250 compensation, already represented a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Ms L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance 
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who were 
experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts because of 
financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA guidance included 
that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of these payment holidays 
to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so that an eligible consumer who 
benefited for such a payment holiday didnt have their credit file impacted by doing so.
Not all consumers were eligible to receive these three-month payment plans, and the FCA 
explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who had been able to 
meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until that time, but who were at 
risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late payments on their credit files solely as a 
result of the impact of Covid-19.
The FCA also explained that consumers who didnt meet the eligibility criteria for these 
three-month payment holidays  such as those who were already in arrears on their account, 
and who had therefore already incurred adverse reporting on their credit files  should still 
be offered financial assistance by credit providers if they requested it, but that this 
assistance should be tailored to the individual circumstances of those consumers and 
shouldnt include the suspension of credit file reporting that the prescribed three-month 
payment holidays benefited from.In this instance, Ms L was already two months in arrears on her loan account at the time that 
she requested the three-month payment plan from Tesco. As such, Im satisfied that Tesco 
didnt act unfairly towards Ms L by explaining to her that she wasnt eligible to receive the 
three-month payment holiday that shed applied for because of the existing arrears on her 
account. Im also satisfied that the course of action that Tesco took  offering alternative 
financial assistance to Ms L in the form of a reduced payment arrangement  was a fair and 
reasonable action for Tesco to have taken and was commensurate what this service would 
have expected Tesco to have done at that time.
Importantly, its evident that it was explained to Ms L by Tesco at the time the reduced 
payment arrangement was agreed that arrears would continue to grow on Ms Ls loan 
account and that these arrears would be reported by Tesco to the credit reference agencies. 
It's also evident that, when the initial reduced payment arrangement ended, and when Ms L 
explained that she wasnt in a position to clear the arrears in full as shed intended to, and 
instead requested a second reduced payment arrangement, that Tesco didnt clearly explain 
to Ms L that while they were willing to accept ongoing reduced payments from her, the level 
of arrears that had already accrued on Ms Ls account meant that Tesco werent willing to 
withhold potentially defaulting the account while the lower monthly repayments continued to 
be received.
Tesco dont dispute that they should have provided a clearer explanation to Ms L that her 
account may be defaulted at that time, and theyve apologised to Ms L because of this and 
made an offer of £250 compensation to Ms L for the upset and inconvenience their not 
providing such clear information may have caused.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But the £250 
that Tesco have already offered to Ms L for the unclear information here does feel fair to me, 
and its in line with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
It's also notable that Tesco then allowed Ms L to make a payment to clear the arrears and 
remove the default on the account at a time significantly after the account had fallen more 
than six months into arrears, and also applied a six month payment holiday to Ms Ls 
account following the full repayment of the account arrears by Ms L. 
This seems generous to me and goes above and beyond what I would have expected Tesco 
to have done here. And I say this because it seems evident from the information available to 
me that Ms L wasnt in a position to have repaid the arrears on the account before the time 
that she did, and that therefore, regardless of the unclear information given to her by Tesco 
about the possibility of her account defaulting, Ms Ls account seems likely to have always 
fallen more than six months into arrears and as such also likely to have always defaulted.
Ms L is unhappy that Tesco continue to report missed payments on her account for the time 
that she was in a reduced payment arrangement leading up to the account being defaulted 
and when she wasnt able to make the full payments towards her loan. 
Having reviewed Ms Ls credit file its evident that Tesco are reporting that Ms Ls credit file 
fell two months into arrears without an arrangement in place and then continued to fall 
further into arrears  to a maximum of six months  with an arrangement in place for the next 
nine months. 
This is what this service would expect Tesco to report here  given that its an accurate 
reflection of what took place and given that Tesco, as a provider of credit, are obliged to 
make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies. And it must be remembered that Tesco informed Ms L at the time of the first reduced payment arrangement that the arrears 
that grew on her account would be reported by them to the credit reference agencies.
Ms L has also stated that an application that she made for a mortgage was declined solely 
because of the default that Tesco had reported to her credit file, and which they later 
removed. However, as explained previously, I dont feel that Tescos initial reporting of that 
default was unfair or unreasonable, and so I wouldnt consider holding Tesco accountable 
for Ms Ls mortgage application being declined as she would like here. Additionally, its also 
notable from the correspondence Ms L has provided from her mortgage advisor that other 
adverse reporting present on Ms Ls credit file may have contributed to the mortgage 
application being declined.
Finally, Im aware that Ms L feels that it was difficult to contact Tesco while the Covid-19 
pandemic was ongoing. I can appreciate Ms Ls frustrations here, but it must be 
remembered that businesses were also struggling to deal with the effects of Covid-19 at that 
time, and that it was often the case that businesses such as Tesco were having to provide 
the best service that they could while dealing with significant staff shortages and with 
government imposed requirements for staff to work at home wherever possible. 
As such, while I dont doubt that Ms L was inconvenienced by being unable to contact Tesco 
as easily as she would like, I feel that a degree of inconvenience was inevitable and 
understandable here, given the circumstances, and I dont feel that any further 
compensation is merited in this instance because of this.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Tesco have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here in how theyve responded to Ms Ls complaint, and it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms L was wanting, but I trust that shell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman