DRN-3348086
The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Financial Services Limited acted impolitely and 
unprofessionally during a telephone call he had with them.
What happened
In or around December 2020, Mr L had cause to telephone Creation to discuss an 
outstanding matter. 
Mr L says that during the call, Creations advisor acted in an unprofessional manner and was 
impolite to him. He says this resulted in him feeling very distressed. So, he decided to 
complain to Creation, specifically in relation to this call.
Creation agreed to investigate Mr Ls complaint. Having done so, they wrote to Mr L in 
January 2021. Creation said theyd listened to a recording of the telephone call and didnt 
agree that their agent had acted inappropriately.
Mr L wasnt happy with Creations response to his complaint. So, he decided to refer matters 
to this service to investigate on his behalf.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ls complaint together with information and records 
provided by Creation. Our investigator said that Creation were unable to recover a recording 
of the call referred to. Based upon the information that was available, they didnt think there 
was anything to suggest Creation had acted inappropriately.
Mr L wasnt happy with our investigators response to his complaint. He thought it wasnt fair 
that Creation werent able to provide a recording of the call for this service to review. So, as 
an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ls complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr L has made various complaints to and about Creation. In this case, I 
have only considered Mr Ls complaint specifically in relation to the call he made in 
December 2020. Any other complaints are considered distinct and separate from this, so Im 
unable to consider them in my response.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. In doing so, my decision is based 
upon on the facts and evidence available. Both Mr L and Creation have been given the 
opportunity to tell us what they remember saying or being told.
Mr L has insisted that Creation acted inappropriately during that call. In order to reach a 
decision, I needed to best establish what happened and whether this suggests that Creation 
did something wrong. Where evidence isnt available, I needed to consider whether, on the 
balance of probabilities, the information I do have supports what Mr L has said.
Unfortunately, Creation arent able to provide a recording of the telephone call in question. A 
business is not required or obliged to record calls. Where they do, they arent obliged to 
retain any recording indefinitely. So, while Mr L believes its unfair Creation havent been 
able to provide the recording, I cant reasonably say that Creation have done anything wrong 
because of this.
When Creation investigated Mr Ls complaint, a recording was available to them. Theyve 
confirmed to this service this was reviewed before they responded to his complaint. Creation 
have provided a copy of the notes they made when they listened to the recording. While 
these arent a full transcript, they do provide a reasonably detailed summary of the 
conversation. Having considered these, Im unable to find anything that might lead me to 
conclude they acted inappropriately.
I understand and appreciate what Mr L believes he recalls from that conversation. I also 
appreciate that he says the call caused him some distress. But based upon the information 
provided, I cant reasonably conclude that Creation did anything wrong. I realise Mr L doesnt 
agree, but the information provided by Creation suggests they investigated his complaint 
fully and appropriately. And I havent seen anything that would lead me to disagree with their 
findings.
I realise Mr L will be disappointed, but I shant be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman