DRN-2948163
The complaint
Mr Ms complains that National Westminster Bank Plc acted irresponsibly by providing him 
with a credit card and then increasing the credit limit.
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card for his business with a £2,000 credit limit. His application was 
initially declined due to concerns raised through the credit check. However, following an 
appeal and further investigation into Mr Ms credit results it was found the adverse 
information related to an historic event and the account had been settled. A business credit 
card was provided to Mr M in April 2017 and then the credit limit was increased. Mr M says 
that NatWest acted irresponsibly by extending him so much credit.
NatWest said that before the credit card account was offered it carried out relevant checks. It 
said that Mr Ms application was initially declined but following an appeal it was approved 
with a credit limit of £2,000. The credit limit was then increased to £4,000 and then to £6,000 
in July 2017. It said the limit increases were system accepted and passed credit decisioning.
Mr M didnt accept NatWests response to his complaint and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She was satisfied that NatWest completed 
reasonable checks before the credit card account was provided and that based on the 
evidence provided to it, the credit limit was affordable and sustainable. Our investigator said 
that NatWest hadnt provided evidence of further checks taking place before the credit limit 
was increased. She considered what NatWest would have seen had further checks taken 
place and didnt think there was evidence to suggest that Mr M was in financial difficulty at 
that time and so didnt think NatWest had been wrong to apply the higher credit limit.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M complains that he was provided with several lines of credit by NatWest which he says 
caused him financial difficulties and had a negative impact on his health. This decision 
relates to Mr Ms complaint about the credit card he was provided with and the subsequent 
credit limit increases.
Mr M applied for a business credit card in March 2017. The information provided states that 
the card was requested in case of need so that Mr M could separate any business 
expenses from his personal expenses. 
Before providing credit to a customer, we would expect NatWest to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure the lending is sustainably affordable. In this case, NatWest 
carried out affordability and credit checks. The affordability checks were based on Mr Ms 
personal income and expenses. Mr Ms net monthly income was recorded as £2,500 and 
monthly expenses of £1,900. This left a monthly disposable income of £600. Having looked 
through Mr Ms bank statements from the time and the other information from the application 
process I find it reasonable that this information was relied on. There was an issue identified 
through the initial credit check, but this was further investigated following an appeal and 
based on the information received I do not find the credit check results following the appeal 
resulted in concerns that required any further investigation.
The application information provided shows an amount (which I take to mean the requested 
credit limit) of £2,000. I think the checks carried out before the credit card was provided were 
reasonable and I do not find that the limit of £2,000 was unreasonable.
NatWest has said its systems showed a £4,000 credit limit being applied when the card was 
provided in April 2017, however I can see from the account statements that the £2,000 limit 
was in place on the May and June 2017 statements and this then increased to a £4,000 limit 
on the statement dated 3 July 2017. The credit limit was then increased further to £6,000 in 
July 2017 and this is noted on the statement dated 3 August 2017. 
While I accept that it was Mr Ms choice as to whether to use the extra credit provided to 
him, we would expect the credit provider to carry out sufficient checks before increasing a 
credit limit to ensure the additional lending is sustainably affordable. In this case, Mr Ms 
credit limit increased threefold in three months. This is a substantial increase and I would 
expect NatWest to have carried out reasonable checks to ensure this credit limit was 
affordable for Mr M.
NatWest hasnt provided any further information to show that additional checks were carried 
out to assess whether the increases in the credit limit were affordable for Mr M. Therefore, I 
have looked at the information that would have been available to NatWest had it undertaken 
further checks to assess whether such checks would have raised concerns about the 
affordability of the new credit limits.
Given the timing of the credit limit increases I find it reasonable to rely on the affordability 
data provided as part of the initial application process. As set out above, details of Mr Ms 
income streams and expenses were considered, and NatWest had a history with Mr M which 
further supported its lending decision. Having looked through Mr Ms bank statements this 
supports Mr M having different income streams and the total monthly income amount 
declared at that time. 
Mr M set up a direct debit to pay the full balance on his account when he completed his 
application. He made payments through the direct debit with the full balance being paid in 
June and July 2017 and an amount just short of the full balance being paid in May 2017. 
These payments were made on time and Mr Ms account was well within the credit limit. 
After the credit limit increased to £6,000 Mr M appears to have stopped his full balance 
direct debit but was still making at least the minimum payment on his account over the 
following months.
I have looked through Mr Ms credit file and while I note this was provided later and may not 
include all the information from the time, there wasnt anything in this that suggested Mr M 
was in financial difficulties at the time. 
Based on the information I have seen, I do not find I have enough to say that NatWest acted 
irresponsibly by increasing the credit limit on Mr Ms credit card to £6,000. Mr M has noted the other credit he had been provided with by NatWest, however I note his 
other credit costs from the time were factored into his expenses.
On balance, for the reasons set out above, I do not find that I have enough evidence to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman