DRN-1650606
The complaint
Mr P complains that his tablet was damaged while it was being repaired following a claim he 
made to Assurant General Insurance Limited under his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P had gadget insurance with Assurant and made a claim because his tablet screen was 
damaged. Assurant accepted the claim and Mr P sent it to be repaired.
When the tablet was returned, Mr P said there were three separate areas of cosmetic 
damage that hadnt been there when hed sent it in. He sent in photos of the damage to 
Assurant and told it he wanted a refund of the £75 excess payment, and a replacement 
tablet. But Assurant said it was only very mild cosmetic damage which wasnt covered under 
the policy, and that the tablet had been repaired correctly.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Assurants response and so he complained to this service. He sent 
in photographs of the tablet, explaining he took them on 10 June 2019 (the day he sent the 
tablet in to be repaired), and that they showed the damage wasnt present when the tablet 
was sent. He said he wanted the excess payment to be refunded, the tablet to be restored to 
the condition it was before it was sent to be repaired and for Assurant to apologise for the 
inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim.
Assurant argued the damage wasnt apparent in the images that it took before and after the 
repair and that in the unlikely event the damage was caused while at its repair centre, the 
damage was minimal and there was no evidence it was caused by its engineers.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied the photos sent in by 
Mr P were taken before the tablet was sent to be repaired, and he commented the fact he 
could see bubble wrap in the background of one of the photos meant it was unlikely it was 
damaged in transit. 
He said the photographs sent in by Assurant were poor quality and taken from angles that 
didnt show the damaged areas, so they didnt assist as to whether the damage was present 
before the repair. But he noted that when looking at the after repair picture from Assurant, 
he could see a scuff on the bottom hand corner of the tablet and that it matched the damage 
Mr P had complained about.
Our investigator was satisfied the damage wasnt present when Mr P sent the tablet to be 
repaired and he thought it was likely it had occurred while it was in Assurants care. 
Consequently, he recommended Assurant should repair the damage, or pay Mr P £100 
compensation for the damage and £100 for the inconvenience caused by its handling of the 
claim. 
Assurant asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. It argued that images of 
the tablet were taken within two minutes of it having been received and that it wasnt 
received until three days after Mr P said it was sent. It stated that while the photos it took 
were unclear, they did show different angles, and it questioned why the images Mr P 
produced were only of the areas that showed cosmetic damage.
It challenged whether the tablet was actually posted on the date the photographs were 
taken, questioning what happened to it between 10 June 2019 and 13 June 2019, and it 
didnt accept the tablet sustained any damage within two minutes of it having been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states we only cover damage if it stops the normal functioning of your device. If it 
is just a scratch or dent, and your device still works as expected, then we will not repair or 
replace it. But Mr P hasnt made a claim for cosmetic damage, hes complaining about 
damage that he believes was caused while the tablet was in Assurants care. If Im satisfied 
the tablet was damaged while in Assurants care, it will need to do something to put that 
right.
Mr P has sent in photographs of the tablet showing cosmetic damage to the bottom back 
corner, an area to the left of the charger port and the top side, near the camera lens. These 
photos were taken when he got the tablet back after it had been repaired and show the 
cosmetic damage was present at that point.
Hes also sent in photographs which he took on 10 June 2019 which show the damage 
wasnt present at the point the photos were taken, and hes produced a photograph showing 
the packaging the phone was wrapped in before he sent it to Assurant. Im satisfied this 
shows its unlikely the damage was sustained while in transit.
Assurant has produced two photographs, one taken before the repair and the other 
afterwards. Neither photo is good quality, and they dont show the relevant areas of the 
tablet, so they dont assist in showing either that the tablet was already damaged by the time 
it was received or that it was undamaged when it was sent back to Mr P.  
Assurant has questioned why it didnt receive the tablet until 13 June, if Mr P had sent it 
straight after he took the photographs on 10 June 2019. I dont know why there was a three-
day gap between the tablet having been posted and the point at which it was recorded as 
having been received, but I dont think this is evidence it wasnt posted when Mr P says it 
was or that the photographs werent taken immediately before it was packaged up. 
Im also satisfied Mr P photographed the tablet before sending it for repairs as a 
precautionary measure and that he only sent before photos of the areas that were 
subsequently damaged because that is what was relevant to his complaint.
Assurants notes show the tablet was received on 13 June and booked in at 08.49. Its 
argued that as the photograph was taken at 08.51, the damage must have occurred within 
two minutes of the tablet having been received by Assurant. But I dont accept this argument 
as it could have been damaged at any stage during the repair process. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied the damage Mr P has complained about 
wasnt present when he sent the tablet to be repaired and that it happened at some point 
before it was returned to him. Consequently, Im persuaded the tablet became damaged 
while it was in Assurants care and therefore it should do something to put that right.
Our investigator has recommended that Assurant should either repair the cosmetic damage 
or pay Mr P £200 compensation for the fact the tablet was damaged, and the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of the claim. Mr Ps indicated he would be happy with 
the compensation and so, for the avoidance of doubt, I think thats what Assurant should do.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr P £200 
compensation*.
*The compensation is to be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell Assurant 
General Insurance Limited Mr P accepts my final decision (if he does). If it pays later than 
this it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date my final decision to the 
date of payment, at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Assurant General Insurance Limited to take off tax 
from this interest, they must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if 
he asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman