DRN-3444473
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC Lloyds has started to charge them a 
monthly fee for their Gold packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs S say that when the account was originally sold to them, they were told that they 
would not have to pay a monthly fee for the account, providing they kept the balance of the 
account above a certain amount.
What happened
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds had acted unfairly or unreasonably, and so 
they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, 
so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Based on what I have seen from Lloyds records, Mr and Mrs S were sold a fee-paying Gold 
Service account in April 2004. At the time, the account cost £10 per month, and in return 
provided a range of benefits such as Worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover and 
mobile phone cover. It also included a feature whereby providing the balance of the account 
was kept above £2,000, the account holder(s) would not have to pay the monthly fee. This 
feature is known as a fee-waiver.
I can see that Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs S in June 2021 to explain that it had decided to 
remove the fee-waiver feature from the account, and therefore Mr and Mrs S would have to 
pay the monthly account fee (which was £14.95 by that point), regardless of how much 
money they kept in the account, if they wanted to keep the Gold Service benefits. The letter 
explained that this change to the account would take place in September 2021.
I understand that Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with this change, as they have essentially been 
able to enjoy all of the benefits of the Gold Service account for many years, without having to 
pay for them (although they have had to keep at least £2,000 in the account to avoid paying 
the monthly fee). But the removal of the fee-waiver feature is something that Lloyds was able 
to do. I say this because the account terms and conditions that Mr and Mrs S agreed to 
when they originally applied for the Gold Service account said:
Current Account
If your salary falls below the minimum entry criteria in place, the Bank has the right to 
convert the account to a standard cheque account, providing reasonable notice is 
given. We may vary the service and facilities offered on the Gold Service current 
account giving notice to you either in a newspaper, branch, on-line or letter if and 
when this is necessary or appropriate to do so.
As such, it is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it provides and 
also which ones to discontinue too. Indeed, Lloyds added, changed and removed various 
features of the account (as well as increased the cost of the account) many times in the 
years that Mr and Mrs S held the account. 
Therefore, whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs M are dissatisfied by this, especially as they 
have been customers of Lloyds for many years, I am unable to say that Lloydss decision to 
remove this feature of the Gold Service account is unreasonable or unfair. 
However, when making such changes, Lloyds was obliged to give notice to all affected 
customers. From what Mr and Mrs S and Lloyds have provided, it seems that Lloyds did give 
Mr and Mrs S a reasonable amount of notice for them to consider their options. I say this 
because the notification of the removal of the fee-waiver looks to have been sent to Mr and 
Mrs S in June 2021, but the removal of the fee-waiver didnt come into effect until September 
2021. 
I can also see that in its final response letter sent in November 2021, Lloyds did offer to pay 
Mr and Mrs S £44.85 as a gesture of goodwill. This offer essentially gave Mr and Mrs S 
some more time to decide, without having to pay for the account, whether they wanted to 
keep the Gold Service packaged account following the removal of the fee-waiver feature. 
Therefore, I think what Lloyds agreed to do in its final response letter was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Lloyds Bank PLC has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs S, because it chose to remove the fee-waiver feature 
from Mr and Mrs Ss Gold Service account. 
I therefore dont think that Lloyds Bank PLC needs to do anything more, than what it has 
already agreed to do in its final response letter, in relation to this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman