DRN-4215824
The complaint
Ms R complains that MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MI) refused to repair an acquired car 
after it had broken down.
What happened
Ms R took out a hire purchase agreement with MI in January 2022 to acquire a used car 
which was initially registered in October 2018. She acquired the car from a dealership, which 
going forward, I will call (D). At the point of sale, the car had covered around 51,000 miles. 
The term of the agreement was 49 months; the monthly repayments were £409.55 after the 
first month; the cost price of the car acquired was £22,149, and an advance payment of 
£1,077.55 was made  with £1,000 of the advance payment being a dealer deposit.
Ms R was considering part exchanging the car and visited D around July 2022. During this 
day, the car broke down and it wouldnt restart. 
D assisted Ms R in recovering the car. Ms R said they told her the oil in the car may have 
been low or the AdBlue needed topping up. MI say D topped up the AdBlue, after they saw a 
message appear on the car dashboard and charged the battery. However, this didnt resolve 
the issue.
On 15 July 2022, the car was then inspected by a manufacturers main dealership, which 
going forward, I will call (Garage A). On the invoice Garage A supplied to Ms R, it said that 
they found the vehicle to have contaminated fuel. There was also a discrepancy on the 
mileage recorded on this invoice. It had the mileage recorded as 45,000 miles, which is 
lower than the mileage the car was sold at. 
Ms R said she requested copies of the service reports from D on works completed on the car 
prior to acquiring it. A copy of the used car pre-sales inspection schedule was provided to 
our service. It said on it that an oil and filter service was completed and AdBlue was also 
topped up. It also confirmed the mileage prior to it being sold was around 51,000 and that a 
service was last completed in September 2020 at around 26,000 miles.
Ms R said she took the car to an independent garage, which going forward, Ill call (Garage 
B). She said they told her it didnt seem like the fuel filter had previously been serviced. She 
said Garage B also tested the car with a new fuel filter but it didnt fix the problem. And she 
said that Garage B found AdBlue in the fuel tank when testing it and also found evidence of 
AdBlue over the back wheel of the car near the fuel cap.
Ms R complained to MI and referred her complaint to our service. When Ms R brought her 
complaint to our service, she believed the issue with the car must have happened when D 
topped up the AdBlue or she believed it happened beforehand, as she thought D hadnt 
carried out works they said they completed prior to giving the car to her.
MI provided Ms R with their final response and said they didnt uphold her complaint. They 
said Garage A and Garage B confirmed the car failure was due to contaminated fuel. They 
said a car would normally fail shortly after contaminated fuel is added to it, and so the fuel 
wasnt contaminated when the car had been sold. But in this instance, it had been driven 
over 5,000 miles from when it was sold. MI also said D only topped up the AdBlue after the 
car had broken down, and this suggested to them that the AdBlue had already been added 
to the fuel tank resulting in the break down.
MI provided us a copy of an email between themselves, and Garage B dated 20 September 
2022. The email was about an estimate quote Garage B had given Ms R in July 2022. It 
stated the mileage on the car being 56,527 and it said:
We have drained the contaminated fuel and replaced the fuel filter, refilled with new 
diesel.
Ms R used the services of a third-party specialist to inspect and test the fuel system in the 
car. A copy of the receipt the fuel specialist supplied to Ms R was dated 27 September 2022. 
The specialist found the system to be functioning correctly and that diagnostic fuel figures 
were inside of the working range. They suggested the issue with the car might be due to a 
mechanical failure within the engine, rather than due to it being mis-fuelled.
Ms R commissioned an independent report on the car on 2 December 2022. At the time the 
inspection was completed, the car had travelled around 56,527 miles. The report concluded 
that the car was of current unsatisfactory quality and required further investigation into the 
exact cause of failure. It said that the fault consisted of the engine timing having jumped and 
showing inadequate timing angles of the camshaft sprocket, but further dismantling of the 
engine was recommended. The report also said that they couldnt comment on the fuel 
within the engine, but if other fuel substances had been used, it would not have affected the 
engine timing.
MI didnt think this independent report changed their position. They said it was inconclusive 
as it stated further investigation was required. 
Our investigator issued his view and upheld Ms Rs complaint. He concluded that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He thought there wasnt conclusive 
evidence to suggest the problem with the car was due to contaminated fuel in its tank and 
relied on the independent report supplied by Ms R, which suggested the mechanical fault 
identified wouldnt have been caused by any possible contaminated fuel. He also said that 
the car manufacturers recommended interval to change the timing belt is every 100,000 
miles or every 10 years.
Our investigator thought it was fair for Ms R to reject the car and that Ms R hadnt been able 
to use the car since early July 2022. So, he thought MI needed to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay;
Collect the car at no further cost to Ms R;
Refund Ms Rs deposit/part exchange contribution;
Refund Ms Rs monthly repayments from 5 July 2022 to the date of settlement;
Refund Ms Rs additional expenses incurred, such as costs for independent 
inspections or reports which were commissioned, as well as insurance costs shes 
had to pay while she has been unable to use the car;
Pay a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience this complaint has caused her;
Remove any adverse information from Ms Rs credit file in relation to this agreement, 
if any.Ms R also provided a further invoice from another third-party garage dated 15 December 
2022, which going forward, I will call (Garage C). The invoice gave a brief description of the 
works carried out. Within it, it said,
Removed cambelt cover to check timing  found timing incorrect.
MI didnt agree with the investigators view. Among other things, they said the car underwent 
a service and MOT at the point of sale and had travelled around 5,000 miles since it was 
sold. They also said the independent report does not determine the cause of the fault with 
the car. They also said that they would expect Ms R to have noticed a squealing type of 
noise earlier into the agreement if it was present or developing at the point of sale.
Our investigator explained that MI didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint as they alleged there was 
contaminated fuel in the car. Miss R didnt believe she had contaminated the fuel, so she 
sought a report by a third-party specialist to test the fuel system and she also sought an 
independent report on the car. He said the diagnosis from Garage A which MI are relying on 
also didnt go further to see if there were any other issues causing the fault with the car. So, 
having relied on the independent report, the investigator wasnt persuaded the problems with 
the car were caused by contaminated fuel. He went on to explain what The Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) said about quality of goods. He concluded that the car wasnt 
reasonably durable as he wouldnt have expected a car that was less than four years old and 
had travelled around 56,500 miles to have an engine failure.
MI said that although a mechanical fault was present on the car, they did not think there was 
sufficient evidence to confirm that this mechanical fault was present at the point of sale, 
given the time which has passed and the mileage covered. They said the independent report 
confirmed that both the timing belt and tensioner were of satisfactory condition, however, 
visible incorrect timing of the cam belt was identified showing several teeth knocked out of 
alignment. MI believed this has been caused by an external influence and not as a result of a 
pre-existing fault.
Ms R said the car hasnt been in use since it broke down in July 2022. And while Ms R has 
been without the car, she said she hadnt been offered a temporary car to use. Ms R has 
also told our service that she has registered her vehicle with DVLA as off the road. She 
expressed to our service how frustrating this issue has been for her and would like the car to 
be returned.
As MI disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Ms Rs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ms R complains about a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Ms Rs complaint about MI.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The CRA is relevant to this complaint. The CRA explains under a contract to 
supply goods, the supplier  MI here  has a responsibility to make sure goods are of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking 
into account any relevant factors. Its important to point out in this case that the CRA 
specifically explains that the durability of goods can be considered part of whether they are 
satisfactory quality or not.I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, its important to note here that the car Ms R acquired was used. 
I can see this car was over three years old, cost over £20,000 and had around 51,000 miles 
on the odometer when Ms R got it. So, I think a reasonable person would accept that it 
would not be in the same condition as a newer car and was likely to have some parts that 
are worn. But a reasonable person would still expect the car to be free from anything other 
than minor faults and wouldve expected trouble free motoring for a reasonable time.
There has been significant information that has come to light since this complaint was 
initially brought to our service by Ms R. In summary, MI has relied on the diagnostics 
completed by Garage A and believe the fault with the car is due to contaminated fuel in its 
fuel tank  and not to do with a fault at the point of supply. They also believe the 
independent report commissioned in December 2022 is inconclusive and that any 
mechanical issue with the engine timing is due to external factors and wasnt present at the 
point of supply.
Firstly, I think it is likely there was contaminated fuel in the car. I say this as it was identified 
by Garage A and Garage B. So Ive thought about when this likely occurred, and most 
importantly, whether I think the contaminated fuel caused the breakdown.
To determine this, I considered how much the car had travelled between when it was 
acquired and it breaking down. But there was some discrepancy about the mileage of the car 
when it had broken down.
The car was recovered in July 2022, around six months after Ms R acquired it. Garage As 
invoice suggests the mileage at the time was 45,000 miles, but I dont think this is correct, 
given this mileage is lower than when the car was sold to Ms R in January 2022. 
Garage B didnt state the mileage in their estimate quote they gave Ms R a couple of days 
after the car broke down. But in an email exchange between Garage B and MI in September 
2022, Garage B said the mileage was 56,527. The independent report conducted in 
December 2022 also confirmed the mileage of the car to be 56,527.
I accept several months had passed between these recordings of the mileage, but given Ms 
R has said the car hasnt been driven since it broke down and MI contacted Garage B in 
September 2022 to enquire about an estimate quote they gave Ms R in July 2022, I think its 
likely the car had travelled 56,527 miles when it had broken down. So, I think its likely the 
car had travelled around 5,000 miles between when it was acquired and it breaking down.
Considering everything here, Im satisfied the contaminated fuel wasnt in the car when it 
was supplied to Ms R. I say this because, the car had travelled 5,000 miles before breaking 
down, which meant the fuel would have had to be replaced and wouldnt have been the 
same fuel that was supplied with the car. I also think, had there been contaminated fuel in 
the car at the point of supply, the fault would have presented itself much sooner.
Ive also noted that both D and Ms R say the car had broken down before AdBlue was added 
by D. So, I dont think the contaminated fuel caused the breakdown. And Ive also placed 
weight on the independent report produced which also says: 
but if any other fuel substance has been used, this would not affect the engine timing..
Ms R says that a fuel specialist tested the fuel and found the system to be functioning 
correctly and that diagnostic fuel figures were inside of the working range. Thinking about 
things here, the fuel that was tested in the car was new fuel and not the same as when it had 
broken down. This is because Garage B had already drained and replaced it. So, I would expect to see the diagnostic fuel figures to be inside the working range. So, Im not putting 
much weight on this specialist test when forming my opinion.
As I dont think the contaminated fuel caused the breakdown, Ive turned to whether the 
mechanical issue identified with the car caused the breakdown and whether it was present at 
the point it was supplied.
Ms R has supplied an independent report as well as an invoice from Garage C which 
suggests there is a fault with the engine timing. MI feels the report is inconclusive and that 
any mechanical issue with the cam belt or teeth being knocked out of alignment is due to 
external factors and wasnt present at the point of supply. 
Ive thought carefully about this. While the independent report suggests further inspection is 
required to be certain of an engine timing issue, Garage C conducted a check after the 
report and also found incorrect timing. Given the fuel has now been replaced and the car still 
isnt working, alongside the consistent comments in both the independent report and Garage 
Cs invoice, I think it is likely there is a mechanical issue with the car.
What I need to consider is whether this fault meant the car was of satisfactory quality or not 
when it was supplied.
The car had travelled around 56,500 miles and was around three and a half years old when 
it broke down. I appreciate MIs comments that the issue with the engine timing is due to 
external factors, but the independent report says no evidence of external engine damage 
could be identified. And MI hasnt provided any evidence to back up what they say here.
I have also reviewed guidance from the manufacturer to see when they recommend a timing 
belt interval change. However, the manufacturer handbook is silent on the issue. On their 
website, around servicing the car in general, it says that after 50,000 miles to ask your 
retailer for their advice but doesnt specifically recommend or say that it needs to be 
replaced at this interval.
The only information I have been able to find about a recommended timing belt interval 
change is through a third-party website which had reviewed the car. Within the review, it 
says:
 they need to be replaced every 10 years or 120,000 miles..
While I appreciate this isnt directly from the manufacturer, it is broadly in line with interval 
changes from other manufacturers.
Having considered everything here, I think the conclusion reached by both Garage C and the 
independent report is the reason why the car broke down. I think the engine failed earlier 
than I would have expected it to. Thinking about the car Ms R got, its age, and the price she 
paid, I dont think a reasonable person would consider it to have been reasonably durable. It 
follows that I do not think the car was of satisfactory quality due to the engine timing having 
jumped and showing inadequate timing angles of the camshaft sprocket.
Putting things right
As I explained above, Im satisfied the car wasnt reasonably durable because of the fault 
with the engine timing having jumped and showing inadequate angles of the camshaft 
sprocket. MI have had the opportunity to repair the car already. Im also mindful about the 
inconvenience a repair will cause. So, thinking about what the CRA says, Ms R is entitled to 
reject the car and I think it is fair and reasonable to do so in this instance.Ive also considered here that Ms R says she hasnt used the car from when it broke down in 
July 2022. Im persuaded by what she has told our service and from the mileages supplied in 
various emails, inspections and repair quotes. 
Ive gone on to consider if Ms R mitigated her losses.
Im mindful that Ms R was led to believe the fault with the car was due to contaminated fuel. 
And as a result, has incurred costs to repair or further diagnose the fault which led to the car 
breaking down. Ms R has provided receipts of costs she has incurred:
Given Ms R was still trying to obtain information to confirm why the car had failed as she felt 
strongly that contaminated fuel hadnt been the reason the car failed, Im not sure what else 
she could have done here. So, I think its reasonable that Ms R is reimbursed for these 
repairs, inspection reports and for her time without use of the car here.
Our investigator directed the business to also reimburse insurance costs while the car has 
been insured but unable to be driven. However, I dont think it is fair to MI to ask them to pay 
insurance costs. I say this because it is a legal obligation for Ms R to insure the car. And Ms 
R has benefitted from the protection her insurance policy has brought her from damage or 
theft of the car while it hasnt been in use. If Ms R feels she should be reimbursed this cost, I 
suggest she contacts her insurance provider to see whether they would consider giving a 
rebate.
Im also satisfied Ms R has suffered distress and inconvenience because of whats 
happened. It must have been upsetting for the car to have broken down and need of repair. 
And it must be frustrating to not have use of the car for so long due to it needing repairs. So I 
think MI should pay her £200 to reflect this.
I set out what I intended to instruct MI to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Ms R responded and said she accepted my provisional decision.
MI responded and said, among other things, that they did not believe the issue to have been 
present or developing at the point of sale. They also said they didnt believe Garage As 
report had been considered in this case.
MI confirmed the inspections and service completed on the car at the point of sale and they 
also went on to summarise events they believed took place which they felt showed the fault 
wasnt developing at the point of sale. MI said that I was more persuaded by Ms Rs 
testimony than by Garage As report.
MI also went on to say that teeth knocked out of alignment can be caused by something 
external getting into the part and knocking it out of alignment.
MI also said that Ms R had a warranty in place with a third-party at the point of purchase 
which would have covered a percentage of the costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome.
In summary, MI are more persuaded by Garage As report completed when the car first 
broke down than by the independent engineer report. MI also say that I was more persuaded 
by Ms Rs testimony that she didnt contaminate the fuel, than by what Garage A said. To be 
clear, I reached my provisional decision on all the evidence presented in front of me. And 
having considered it, I was more persuaded by the independent engineer report and their 
findings. I appreciate MIs comments about Garage As expertise, but I have also taken into 
account that the independent engineer report says that fuel contamination wouldnt have 
caused an issue with the engine timing.
The independent engineer report and Garage C both concluded that there was an issue with 
the engine timing. I note that Garage A hadnt identified this same issue. And it isnt in 
dispute that the car hadnt been driven in-between the reports being created. So I consider 
the latter reports to be more conclusive, considering the latter reports had picked up on the 
mechanical fault and the initial reports hadnt.
MI believe the incorrect timing to the cam belt was caused by an external factor. However, 
none of the reports provided show any indication that the damage has been caused by an 
external factor. And the independent engineer reports says no evidence of external damage 
to the engine could be identified. So, without evidence to the contrary, I dont think it was 
caused by an external factor.
MI said that Ms R had a warranty in place with a third-party. While that may be so, that 
doesnt absolve MI of their obligations under the CRA.
Having considered everything here, I think the conclusion reached by both Garage C and the 
independent report is the reason why the car broke down and I have already summarised in 
my provisional decision on how I reached that conclusion.
So, I think MI needs to do more in this instance to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct MI Vehicle Finance 
Limited to put things right by doing the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Ms R.
Refund Ms Rs deposit/part exchange contribution, less any dealer deposit that might 
have been contributed towards the cost price of the car. *
Refund Ms Rs monthly repayments from July 2022 to the date of settlement. *
Refund Ms Rs additional expenses incurred which are listed below. * **
Pay a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience this complaint has caused her.
Remove any adverse information from Ms Rs credit file in relation to this agreement, 
if any.
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If MI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms R how much its taken off. It should also give Ms R a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate. 
** For clarity, Ms Rs additional costs which need to be refunded are:
Invoice name Cost (£) Date on invoice
Garage As invoice 118.80 15 July 2022
Garage Bs invoice 579.46 10 October 2022
Independent engineer report 199.00 23 November 2022
Fuel specialists receipt 290.00 27 September 2022
Garage Cs invoice 562.02 17 January 2023
TOTAL 1,749.28
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman