DRN-2881208
The complaint
Through his mother Ms L, Mr L complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited
mishandled a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L took out a motor policy for the ten months from 17 August 2017. Ms L was a named 
driver. 
Admiral was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Admiral, I include claims-
handlers, investigators and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their actions.
On 17 September 2017, Mr Ls vehicle and another drivers vehicle were damaged in a road
traffic accident. Mr L, his passenger and the other driver were each injured.
Prosecutors charged Mr L with driving a motor vehicle with a proportion of a controlled
drug above the specified limit. On 29 March 2018, Mr L pleaded guilty to that charge.
Admiral dealt with the third party claims by paying out over £21,000.00. It sought to recover
its outlay from Mr L. Mr L and Ms L complained to Admiral.
By a final response dated 30 September 2019, Admiral turned down the complaint. Unhappy
with that, Mr L brought his complaint to us on 23 March 2020. He said that Admiral should
reinstate cover, stop its claim against him and pay for his damaged car.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
Admiral acted fairly when it cancelled the policy and declined Mr Ls claim. She thought
Admirals decision to accept liability for the accident was fair and reasonable. She thought
that it was fair for Admiral to recover its outlay from Mr L. She thought that Admiral
responded promptly when it needed to, and its actions werent unfair or unreasonable when
handling the claim with Mr L and Ms L.
my (first) provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L
and to Admiral on 22 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
From what Id been told, Admirals policy for Mr L contained the following General
Condition:
If an accident happens whilst you is driving your vehicle and:
- is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol [or drugs]
- is driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or
otherwise
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead, liability will be
restricted to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law. In those
circumstances, we will recover from you  all sums paid (including all legal
costs), whether in settlement or under a Judgement, of any claim arising from
the accident.
Admiral had said that the words or drugs werent in the first bullet point when Mr L
took out the policy in August 2017 but were added later. So I accepted that Mr L
wasnt bound by those words in that bullet point. 
Fitness to drive meant fitness lawfully to drive.
Mr L had been on 17 September 2017 driving whilst unfit through drugs.
I wasnt minded to find that Admiral treated Mr L unfairly. I wasnt minded to find it fair
and reasonable to direct Admiral to change its decision about cover or to withdraw its
claim against Mr L or to meet his claim for his damaged car.
Subject to any further information from Mr L or from Admiral, my (first) provisional decision 
was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
my (second) provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr L and to Admiral on 10 May 2021. I summarise my findings:
When he took out the policy in August 2017, Admirals policy for Mr L contained the 
following General Condition:
If an accident happens whilst you is driving your vehicle and:
- is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
I had underlined the words or drugs in the first bullet point. I accepted that Mr L was 
bound by those words in that bullet point.
Subject to any further information from Mr L or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr L disagrees with the second provisional decision. Ms L says, in summary, that:
The only policy booklet amendment of which she and her son have been notified was 
made on 1 February 2018. That included Additional wording for drug driving 
offences. There seems a very strong possibility that the words "or drugs" were only 
added on 1 February 2018.
Ombudsman's decision DRN8803675 relates to an accident in December 2017. It 
sets out the same wording as Admirals letter dated 17 April 2018.
Mr Ls policy was somewhat unusual in that it its duration was for 10 months rather
than the usual 12 months. This shorter policy may have had different terms.
Admiral have made repeated mistakes during this process  she cannot rely on what 
they say without checking it.The policy documents produced by Admiral do not give any indication of the dates to 
which the policy relates. The only indication is on the very Iast page where there is a 
minuscule code that is only useful to Admiral, not the customer.
She expects to see an amendment from 1 October 2017.
She has looked at the policy that she received from Admiral on 4 November 2019. 
The General Conditions drink and drugs clause 11 actually appears on page 40.  The 
1 February 2018 amendment states page 39.
She paid £270.00 pounds to an expert witness - to try and respond to the facts that 
Admiral had presented. It's particularly galling to now be told that they want to 
change the facts and so entirely ignore the evidence she has submitted.
Admiral agrees with the second provisional decision. It says, in summary, as follows:
It has sent us copies of the following policy books which went live on the following 
dates:
01.02.17  AD003 012
01.04.17  AD003 013
01.10.17  AD003 014
13.12.17  AD003 016 
01.02.18  AD003 017
25.05.18  AD003 018
19.09.18  AD003 019
06.03.19  AD003 020
AD003 015 was created but never used as further changes were needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to take into account the law, the policy terms, regulation and good practice. Overall I 
have to decide what is fair and reasonable.
All motor insurance policies offer cover to the policyholder against liability to third parties
such as passengers, other road users and owners of roadside property. Most motor
insurance policies also offer cover to the policyholder against damage to his own vehicle.
All motor insurance policies contain policy terms about such cover, including limitations or
exclusions of cover.
Under road traffic law, a motor insurer has a legal obligation to deal with a third partys claim
even if the policyholder wasnt covered because of a policy term or a cancellation.
Insurers update their policy booklets from time to time. When a policyholder takes out or 
renews a policy, the insurer will refer the policyholder to the most recent version of its policy 
booklet. The terms in that booklet then apply until the policy comes to an end or is renewed 
 even if the booklet is amended in the meantime.The duration of the policy is dealt with in a policy schedule. So I dont find it likely that 
Admiral has different policy booklets for ten-month and twelve-month policies.
In its final response letter dated 30 September 2019, Admiral said the following:
If [Mr L] was driving the vehicle whilst over the prescribed limit for his prescribed
medication he is classed as driving whilst unfit which is outlined in the second bullet
point of Section 11; General Conditions of your cover. There has been an update to
this condition since you accepted your policy, which is why or drugs has been
added to bullet point 1 in the above. This does not change the second bullet point to
which describes the circumstances of your reported incident
So Admiral had said that the words or drugs werent in the first bullet point when Mr L took
out the policy in August 2017 but were added later.
After the first provisional decision, Admiral said that it added the words or drugs to the first 
bullet point in April 2017. 
Ms L has referred to a complaint published under our decision reference number 8803675. 
That quotes policy wording omitting or drugs in the first bullet point as applying to an 
accident in December 2017. But the policy wording applied from the start of the policy year 
(or other period). And the decision doesnt say when the policy was taken out. So it couldve 
been up to a year before the accident  that is as early as December 2016. The decision 
indicates that the words or drugs were added to the policy booklet after December 2016.
Admiral has referred to another complaint  which I believe led to a decision published
under our decision reference number 4809391. That complaint included the suggestion that
Admirals policy wording hadnt kept up with the creation in 2015 of the offence of driving a
motor vehicle with a proportion of a controlled drug above the specified limit. So I accept
Admirals statement that it changed its policy wording in April 2017  shortly before the final
decision on that complaint.
Ms L has recently sent us a document summarising amendments to the policy terms  she 
says with effect from about February 2018. The document mentions (without quoting it) 
additional wording to the drink and drugs clause 11 which it says is on page 40. And Ms L 
has shown us an extract from a policy booklet she says Admiral sent her with clause 11 on 
page 40. I cannot explain that.
But Admiral has recently sent us its policy booklet AD003 012 with the words or drugs 
missing from the drink and drugs clause 11 and its subsequent policy booklets from AD003 
013 onwards with the words or drugs included in the drink or drugs clause 11.  Crucially, I 
have found that Admiral made that change with effect from 1 April 2017.
So I find that  when he took out the policy in August 2017, Admirals policy for Mr L was by 
reference to policy booklet AD003 013 issued on 1 April 2017 and contained the following 
General Condition:
If an accident happens whilst you is driving your vehicle and:
- is found to be over the legal limit for alcohol or drugs
- is driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs, whether prescribed or otherwise
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead, liability will be restricted to
meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law. In those circumstances, we
will recover from you  all sums paid (including all legal costs), whether in
settlement or under a Judgement, of any claim arising from the accident.I have underlined the words or drugs in the first bullet point. I accept that Mr L was bound
by those words in that bullet point.
In my view the drink or drugs exclusion isnt unusual and  whilst it may be ruinous for a
driver who falls foul of it  I dont find the term unfair. But I will consider whether Admiral
applied it fairly in Mr Ls case.
Most motor insurance policies also contain a term that the insurer may decide how to deal
with a claim involving a third party. Admirals policy for Mr L contained the following term:
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
The effect of that term is that  on a question of liability to a third party  Admirals view
would prevail over Mr Ls. Unlike a court dealing with a case between two drivers, we dont
decide the extent to which either of them is responsible for causing injury or damage. But I
will consider whether Admiral applied the policy term fairly in Mr Ls case.
The conviction for driving on 17 September 2017 with a proportion of a controlled drug over
the specified limit is enough evidence that Mr L had been on 17 September 2017 driving
whilst over the legal limit for drugs.
I dont condone the making of mistakes in a final response letter. And I acknowledge that 
Admirals mistake caused Ms L to spend time and money on addressing points under the 
second bullet point  unfitness to drive.
However, Im satisfied that Mr Ls driving over the legal limit for drugs engaged the
consequences set out in the General Condition Ive quoted. Im also satisfied that such
driving caused prejudice to Admirals prospects of defending the third party claims.
So I dont find that Admiral treated Mr L unfairly by declining cover and dealing with the third
party claims and telling Mr L that it would seek recovery from him of its outlay.
From its file, Im satisfied that  in dealing with the third party claims - Admiral took into
account all the relevant evidence. That included reports of the accident from Mr L, his
passenger and the other driver. It also included the nature and location of the damage to
each vehicle. It also included a police report and an investigators report.
Im satisfied that Admiral did a reasonable and proportionate investigation. It decided that 
rather than incur the cost and risk of losing a court case  it would settle the third party
claims. I cant say that Admirals decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
Theres no evidence that Admiral paid out more than it had to.
From its file, Im satisfied that Admiral communicated with Mr and Ms L properly. Whilst
Admirals communications were unwelcome and caused Mr L and Ms L some distress, I
cant say the communications were inappropriate or unfair.
Overall I dont find that Admiral treated Mr L unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Admiral to change its decision about cover or to withdraw its claim against Mr L or to 
meet his claim for his damaged car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman