DRN-4051414
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF). 
When I refer to what Mr B has said, and BMF have said, it should also be taken to include 
things said on their behalf.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMF to acquire a 
used car first registered in 2016. The total cash price of the car was approximately £9,950. 
The total amount payable under the finance agreement was approximately £14,868. The 
agreement consisted of 60 monthly instalments of £247.79, plus a £1 option purchase fee, 
payable at the same time as the final instalment.
Around 10 days after acquiring the car, Mr B contacted the supplying dealership and told 
them that the engine fault lights had appeared on the cars dashboard. At that time, he also 
raised an issue with the windscreen crack. The supplying dealership agreed to investigate 
the issues Mr B was experiencing with the car. So, in the first week of December 2021, Mr B 
contacted the supplying dealership to book the car in. At this time, he also told the 
dealership that he was experiencing a potential electrical fault. The supplying dealership 
agreed to get the windscreen repaired for him. Later in December 2021, Mr B contacted the 
supplying dealership as the windscreen repair was unsuccessful and the crack was getting 
worse. The dealership told him that they would replace the windscreen in the new year.
Also, the supplying dealership advised that refiling the AdBlue will resolve the issue with the 
warning lights appearing on the dashboard. At the beginning of January 2022, Mr B again 
contacted the dealership because even though the AdBlue was topped up the fault warning 
lights were still present on the cars dashboard. So, Mr B was unhappy because, even 
though the supplying dealerships garage of choice looked at the car and topped up the 
AdBlue, this didnt solve the problem. And on 18 January 2022, Mr B had a health check 
done at a manufacturing dealership for his car model. There, the service department found 
that, in addition to AdBlue faults, the car also needed a new tyre and there was an oil leak in 
the engine. 
As Mr B was unhappy with the quality of the car, he tried to come to an agreement with the 
dealership to switch to a different one. But, he said, that the alternative car he was offered 
was not a suitable replacement. Since he couldnt come to an agreement with the 
dealership, he complained to BMF and said he would like to reject the car. 
Towards the end of June 2022, BMF wrote to Mr B. In this correspondence they said that, 
because the finance agreement was over six months old, they would require Mr B to provide 
further evidence of the alleged faults in the form of a diagnostic report.
In September 2022 an independent inspection was carried out which highlighted several 
faults, concluding that the car was of unsatisfactory quality and not fit for purpose. But BMF 
still didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint because they said that the independent report didnt 
mention if the faults were present at the point of sale. 
Mr B was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld because, most likely, the car was 
not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. He also thought that it was fair for Mr B to 
reject the car as the dealerships attempt at a repair had failed.  
BMF disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Mr B acquired the car under a hire 
purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit agreement. Our service can look 
at these sorts of agreements. BMF is the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement 
and is responsible for dealing with complaints about their quality. Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) covers agreements such as the one Mr B entered into. Under the agreement there is 
an implied term that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that 
goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant 
circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash 
price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr Bs case the car was used, with a cash price of around £9,950. It had covered
around 70,500 miles and was approximately five years old when he acquired it. So, the car 
had travelled a reasonable distance and its reasonable to expect presence of some wear to 
it as a result of its usage, and Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new 
car. As with any car, theres an expectation that there will be ongoing maintenance and 
upkeep costs. There are parts that will naturally wear over time and its reasonable to expect 
that these may need to be replaced. And with second-hand cars, its more likely that parts 
will need to be replaced sooner or be worn faster than with a brand-new car. So BMF would 
not be responsible for anything that was due to normal wear and tear whilst the car was in 
Mr Bs possession. But given the age, mileage and price paid, I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person wouldnt expect anything significant to be wrong shortly after it was 
acquired.
First, I considered if there was a fault with the car. 
Within 10 days after acquiring the car, Mr B contacted the supplying dealership and told 
them that the engine fault lights had appeared on the cars dashboard. Within two months of 
Mr B reporting this, the supplying dealership had their garage of choice look at the car and 
they confirmed that they topped up the AdBlue fluid. At the beginning of January 2022, Mr B again contacted the dealership because, even though the AdBlue was topped up, the 
warning lights were still lit on the dashboard of the car. And on 18 January 2022, Mr B had a 
health check done at a manufacturing dealership for his car model. That service department 
found that in addition to AdBlue issues, there was an oil leak in the engine. The supplying 
dealership also had their garage look at the car once again in July 2022 and they have 
indicated that the cars AdBlue tank was leaking badly. And in September 2022 an 
independent inspection was carried out which highlighted several faults. 
This independent report mentioned that there was an oil leak from around the turbo pipe 
area, there was an oil leak in the front engine area which was leaking onto the exhaust 
system, and a leak was evident on the lower engine area in the front of the engine 
compartment. The report mentioned that the car was not idling properly and that the oil 
leaking onto the exhaust system was a potential fire risk. It also specified that the grey 
smoke coming from the exhaust may indicate excessive engine internal wear. The report 
didnt specifically indicate what was wrong with the car, as it said that further investigation 
would be needed because the engineer was unable to road test the car due to the potential 
fire risk. But the report did conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory quality and not fit for 
purpose. Based on all of the above, I think most likely at the time of the independent report 
there was a fault with the car. So, Ive gone on to consider if the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr B.
BMF say that the car would not have passed the MOT or the predelivery inspection if it was 
not fit to drive, so Ive considered this evidence. 
The car passed its MOT on 17 November 2021 right before Mr B took delivery of the car. But 
a valid MOT doesnt automatically mean that a car is free from faults. Sometimes developing 
faults that have not fully materialised may not be spotted during an MOT. And as the fault 
lights were not yet present on the cars dashboard at the time of the MOT, they wouldnt 
have signalled a potential fault with the car, triggering further investigation at that point. Ive 
also considered that the predelivery inspection was completed on 13 November 2021 and 
some of the tick marks show that the joint and boots have been checked, but only three days 
later the car failed the MOT because one of the boots was split or was insecure. So even 
though the predelivery inspection shows tick marks to indicate that numerous areas of the 
car have been checked, it doesnt provide any detail of how the checks were carried out or 
how detailed the inspection was. I think, most likely, the predelivery inspection wasnt 
detailed enough to spot some of the faults surrounding the oil leaks and problems with the 
AdBlue system. So, Ive also considered what other evidence was available on the file.
BMF said that the garage of choice for the supplying dealership, had a look at the car in July 
2022. That garage made a statement in January 2023 and said that, when they inspected 
the car in July 2022, they quickly found that the AdBlue tank was leaking badly. They said it 
had grazes as if it had been in a collision with a high kerb or post and that it was not able to 
hold any of the fluid due to its bad condition. Ive considered this but our service has not 
been provided with any job cards detailing this damage or any picture evidence of it. Also, 
Ive not seen any evidence of the damage around the areas where the AdBlue tank is 
located, which, I think, wouldve most likely been present had there been some sort of an 
impact. And I considered that the garage of choice for the supplying dealership, examined 
the car in January 2022, so had there been impact damage present, I think its most likely 
they wouldve spotted it at that time. In addition, this was also not mentioned at all in the very 
detailed independent inspection done in September 2022. Overall, I cant say that most likely 
the AdBlue tank was damaged due to impact caused by Mr B.
Ive gone on to consider the independent inspection which was carried out in September 
2022. This report goes into great detail regarding the engine oil leaks. But BMF questioned 
this inspection report because they said it didnt specifically mention that the faults were present at the point of sale. Ive considered their argument, but Mr B reported the engine 
fault lights appearing on the cars dashboard within 10 days after acquiring the car. And 
within a further two months he had a health check done at a manufacturing dealership. This 
check found issues with the AdBlue and the issues with an engine oil leak. So, I think the 
faults mentioned in the independent inspection, carried out in September 2022, were most 
likely the same faults as the ones mentioned by Mr B within the first two months after 
acquiring the car. Considering the age, mileage, and the cash price of the car, I think that a 
reasonable person wouldnt consider such significant faults to be present shortly after it was 
acquired.
I think most likely the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. Mr B exercised his 
right to have the car fixed by allowing the supplying dealerships garage of choice to try and 
fix the car. But all they did was added AdBlue and said that this would fix the problem. As 
they had an unsuccessful attempt at trying to resolve this issue, CRA allows Mr B to reject 
the car. I think in this case, it is fair and reasonable that Mr B is allowed to exercise his right 
to reject the car, considering the circumstances of this case. As such, the hire purchase 
agreement should be cancelled with nothing further to pay.  
BMF should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. The credit agreement 
should be marked as settled in full on his credit file, or something similar, and should not 
show as voluntary termination.
Mr B has been able to use the car until the end of August 2022. The independent inspection 
was completed on 1 September 2022 and the car had travelled at that time a total of about 
77,529 miles. Mr B said that he was hiring cars and using his friends cars after the 
independent inspection was completed as the report deemed the car to be a fire risk. So, I 
think it is fair and reasonable that BMF refund Mr B all payments he had made towards the 
agreement from September 2022 onwards. Considering Im directing BMF to refund him the 
monthly payments, it wouldnt be fair to ask them to also refund Mr B the costs he incurred 
for hiring or using his friends cars during that same time.    
On 26 August 2022, Mr B paid £299 for the independent car inspection. I think Mr B has lost 
out because the car supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality, so I think its fair that BMF refund 
him this payment.
BMF should also add interest to the refunded amounts from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement. Interest should be calculated at 8% simple per year. 
Mr B also mentioned that on another occasion he paid £126 to one of the manufacturing 
dealerships for his car model to have a look at the car after it broke down. But our service 
has not been provided with evidence of this inspection or details what this cost covered. So, 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask BMF to refund this amount to Mr B.
Also, I know that Mr B has mentioned that this situation had an impact on his wife, but in this 
decision, I can only consider the impact this situation had on Mr B. Based on all the available 
evidence, I think that this matter caused Mr B a lot of distress and inconvenience when trying 
to resolve it. He had to take the car back to the supplying dealership a number of times and 
he had to correspond extensively with the dealership and BMF. He also had to pay for the 
costs of recovery after the car broke down, which I dont think wouldve happened if BMF 
supplied him with a car that was of a satisfactory quality. So, I think BMF should pay him 
£200 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay; 
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
3. Refund the £299 Mr B paid for the independent inspection on 26 August 2022;
4. Refund all hire purchase repayments Mr B made from September 2022 onwards;
5. Add 8% simple interest per year to points 3 and 4 above, from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement;
6. Pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
7. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation
to this credit agreement, and mark it as settled.
If Blue Motor Finance Ltd considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my 
award, they should provide Mr B with a certificate showing how much they have taken off so 
he can reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman