DRN-1068301
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc required them to provide ID before it would 
act on their instructions to transfer money from their account. They ask for compensation for 
the upset and inconvenience this caused.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs M visited a branch of HSBC to make a transfer of about £170,000 from a 
joint account. HSBC asked for ID and didn't accept the ID Mrs M had with her. She said this 
wouldn't have happened at her local branch which had closed. Mrs M found this particularly 
upsetting as Mr M was having tests at the hospital, and she wanted to be with him. Mr M 
visited the branch with his ID after he left hospital later that day. He felt unwell during the 
visit. 
Mr and Mrs M say they weren't told they needed to bring ID with them and this hadn't been 
required before. Mrs M says she spent about three hours at the HSBC branch. She says 
they found the experience humiliating and inconvenient.
Our investigator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said while he 
understood this was upsetting for Mr and Mrs M, HSBC hadn't done anything wrong. It 
followed its process to protect Mr and Mrs M's account.
Mr and Mrs M didn't agree. Mrs M said HSBC's terms and conditions say it may, not that it 
will, ask for ID documents. Mrs M said it was unfair for HSBC to refuse to accept the ID she 
had with her and make the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs M's account say HSBC needs to check that 
payments are authorised by them. The account terms say that HSBC may ask customers in 
a branch for photo ID, such as a driver's licence. 
I think HSBC was entitled to ask Mr and Mrs M for ID before making the transfer. 
Mr and Mrs M say they'd made payments before without providing ID. But this doesn't mean 
HSBC couldn't ask for ID on this occasion or that it was unfair for it to do so.
HSBC has a different security process when payments are authorised by phone or online. 
So I don't think it makes a difference here that Mr and Mrs M were able to authorise a 
transfer by phone.I appreciate that Mrs M believes that HSBC should have accepted the ID she had with 
her, which included an item with her photo. But I think it's for HSBC to decide what 
documents are acceptable and I don't think it acted unreasonably here. 
I understand that circumstances meant being asked for ID on this occasion was particularly 
inconvenient and upsetting for Mr and Mrs M. But I don't think HSBC acted wrongly or 
unfairly. It follows that I don't think it's fair and reasonable to require HSBC to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs M.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman