DRN-1716595
 
The complaint
Ms D and Mr S say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms D and Mr S took out PPI in 2000 at the same time as their mortgage in one of 
Nationwides branches. The policy was in Mr Ss sole name and protected him against 
unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms D and Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms D and Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Ms D and Mr S that the PPI was optional  and they had 
to agree to take it out. Ms D and Mr S say they felt under pressure to buy it, and as part of 
the conversation about mortgage risk in general they were told it would be very high risk not 
to take it out. Nationwide says it strongly refutes any inference that it pressured or treated 
Ms D and Mr S unfairly. 
I cant know what was discussed in the meeting, but I have looked carefully at the paperwork 
from the sale. Ms D and Mr Ss mortgage application shows they selected PPI, and the 
option to decline it was set out with equal prominence. There was nothing on the form that I 
think could reasonably have led them to believe it was mandatory. They declined the 
accident and sickness part of the cover, selecting only unemployment cover. This suggests 
to me there was discussion with Nationwide, and Ms D and Mrs S selected the cover that 
best met their needs. The cost of the PPI was set out separately in their mortgage offer. 
I have considered Ms D and Mr Ss comments about the sale carefully, but I also have to 
consider how long ago the sale was and how that might impact what they recall. 
On balance, I think its most likely Nationwide made it clear the PPI was optional Ms D and 
Mr S agreed to take it for Mr S. 
Ms D and Mr S say Nationwide recommended the policy to them and it was completely 
unsuitable. Nationwide says it didnt provide a recommendation. I havent seen any evidence 
that it looked at their circumstances and then made a tailored recommendation. But even if it had, based on what theyve told us about their circumstances at the time I dont think the PPI 
was unsuitable for Mr S. Ill explain why.
Mr S told us he had very good sick pay, but he didnt take out accident and sickness cover 
so this isnt relevant to my analysis. Their mortgage application form shows Mr S had been 
in his job for only 17 months, so he was unlikely to be entitled to a significant redundancy 
payment. He said he had good pension benefits but his pension scheme couldnt help with 
monthly mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. Theyve said Mr S had savings 
worth at least six months salary but the PPI would allow them to use these for other livings 
expenses whilst Mr S wasnt working, or to keep them intact for their future needs. They also 
said their family would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection, its not 
guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.  
Ms D and Mr S were borrowing a large sum over a long period of time, secured against their 
home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage repayments, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for them if Mr S lost his job.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Ms D and Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy if 
they had received better information. I say this because Mr S wasnt affected by any of the 
conditions limiting the main benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people. As he 
couldve benefited from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed better 
information about the exclusions and limitations. And whilst I dont know when they were first 
told about the cost - it was made clear in their mortgage offer  and the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable.
It follows I dont think Ms D and Mr S have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms D and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman