DRN-1679409
 
The complaint
Ms Ts complaint is about two instalment loans she took with Gain Credit LLC  trading as 
Lending Stream. She says these loans were unaffordable. 
What happened
Lending Stream provided Ms T with three instalment loans between February and June 
2017. Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream hadnt done anything wrong when providing 
Ms T with the first loan. But they thought that Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loans 
2 and 3 to Ms T. So, they partially upheld Ms Ts complaint.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. But Ms T disagreed. She thought all of the 
money she had paid should be refunded, not just the interest and removal of any adverse 
information from her credit report. As Ms T disagreed with our adjudicator, the case was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Ms T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ts complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint about loan 1. As Ms T didnt add anything 
more to this loan, I wont make any further findings on it. 
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators findings that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have 
been lent. Looking at what the adjudicator said, I agree with their rationale for why these 
loans werent suitable for Ms T. 
Ms T has disagreed with the redress she has been offered. Ive noted her comments about 
what she wants Lending Stream to do to put things right. Whilst I agree that Lending Stream 
should not have lent further loans to Ms T, she has had the benefit of the money. I can see 
that Lending Stream has written off the amounts she had outstanding on loans 2 and 3 so 
she no longer owes it anything. Which is more than I would expect a business to do. The 
amendment to her credit file will also means any adverse information about these loans 
wont negatively impact her. So, I wont be directing it to refund any of the capital Ms T has 
paid.
Overall and having carefully thought about everything, Im satisfied that what Lending 
Stream has already agreed to do (in terms of putting things right for loan 2) is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Ms Ts case. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I think what Gain Credit LLC has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Ms T is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint and I 
dont ask it to do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman