DRN-1679217
The complaint
Mr W complains that TSB Bank plc didnt tell him that the fixed rate on his mortgage was due 
to end in three months as it had told him. He says he only received notice that the fixed rate 
was due to end around one month in advance.
What happened
In 2017 Mr W took a mortgage with TSB. The interest rate was fixed until 30 April 2019, 
when it would switch to a standard variable rate (SVR). Mr W was told that he would be 
notified three months in advance when the fixed rate was due to end. But when the time 
came TSB only gave him one months notice. Mr W says that wasnt enough time for Mr W 
to switch to a different lender. And as a result he paid SVR for two months.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt accept what the investigator said. He said, in summary:
He had an agreement with TSB that it would tell him three months in advance of the 
fixed rate coming to an end.
One month wasnt enough time to set up a new mortgage and he has ended up around 
£500 worse off causing him stress and financial difficulty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr W was told when he took out the mortgage that he 
would be given three months notice that his fixed rate product was due to expire. But I dont 
think that alone is enough for me to uphold this complaint. I say this for the following 
reasons.
I cant see that there was any written requirement for TSB to give Mr W three months notice. 
There is nothing in the mortgage offer that says TSB would do that. And it went further than 
the requirement in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules. It was TSBs policy at the 
time Mr W took the mortgage to give three months notice  so it didnt give Mr W incorrect 
information. But I dont consider it created a binding agreement between Mr W and TSB. It 
was entitled to change its policy and there was no requirement for it to tell borrowers what 
had happened.
Overall, I consider that TSB gave Mr W clear, fair and not misleading information about 
when the fixed rate was due to end. The date was stated clearly and prominently in the 
mortgage offer. And it isnt in dispute that TSB gave Mr W a months notice that the rate was 
due to end. That complied with the FCAs rules. So I dont consider TSB has acted unfairly 
here. Its unfortunate that Mr W couldnt arrange a new mortgage in time before his 
mortgage reverted to the SVR, but I dont consider that was as a result of any error by TSB.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman