DRN-2097055
The complaint
Ms R complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have unfairly 
declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R took out a super-lifetime policy for her dog on 19 October 2019. 
In March 2020, Ms R completed a claim form. She says her vet advised to put the 
claim down as allergies and date it from 31 October 2019. 
The policy excludes cover for any illness that first shows clinical signs within 14 days 
of it starting. So, Red Sands declined the claim and applied three exclusions for 
allergies, skin conditions and digestive system with effect from inception of the policy.
Ms R called Red Sands to discuss the claim and was given two differing reasons for 
the 14-day waiting period  Red Sands has accepted this was an error and 
apologised. But upheld its decision to decline the claim.
In July 2020, Ms Rs vet said an error had occurred when the claim was submitted by 
one of their veterinary branches as they had claimed for everything under the 
heading of allergies from 31 October 2019 to 11 March 2020 and it should have been 
from the 7 February 2020.The vet said in October 2019, Ms Rs dog was noted to 
have diarrhoea, inappetence and occasional blood in the stools and was diagnosed 
with enteritis. But says the first mention of skin condition was on 7 February 2020 
and no sign of a skin condition or allergy was picked up prior to 7 February 2020.
Red Sands continued to decline the claim and said from the clinical history its clear 
Ms Rs dog has suffered from digestive problems  it pointed to a record on 11 March 
2020 which said stool has been good since on new diet - it believes this indicates a 
food intolerance/allergy.
Red Sands also said regardless of whether the two conditions are related or not, the 
notes on 7 February 2020 also say Reddish alopaciac areas over the eyes, and by 
smile area? O says she has always had it, but I havent noticed it before, she doesnt 
rub it. So Red Sands has relied on section 1.3.4 of the policy which excludes Any 
illness that first shows clinical signs within 14 days of the commencement date as it 
says the dog has always had it.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint - she wasnt persuaded the dog was 
experiencing allergies in October 2019. She felt it was apparent the dog had 
problems with her digestive system, and this started the week before Ms R got her. 
And that further issues continued in October 2019. So, she felt it was reasonable that 
Red Sands applied the exclusion for the digestive system. But she directed the other 
two exclusions be removed and that Ms Rs claims be reconsidered in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. She felt the apology for the incorrect 
information regarding the 14-day waiting period was fair and reasonable.
Red Sands disagreed with our investigators view. It maintained the claim was correctly 
declined as it was submitted as allergies dating back to the onset of the digestive upset. It 
was noted that the digestive upset worsened with treats and other food and the dog was 
better when placed back on regular food. It continued to say the clinical history confirms that 
the soft stools continued with other symptoms, and the claim form confirmed the onset of 
allergies was within the 14-day waiting period. It said it notes the vet has contacted it to say 
the form was completed incorrectly, however the clinical history was not retracted by the vet 
and continues to indicate the ailments the dog suffered from started shortly after inception of 
the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
Im not going to list all the clinical history as this has been done in the investigators view so 
both parties are aware of what has been relied on to decline the claim.
I understand Red Sands is relying on what was completed on the claim form alongside the 
clinical history. But Ms R has given an account of what happened when she filled this claim 
form out and her vet has also confirmed that everything on Ms Rs account was claimed 
together incorrectly under the heading of allergies, so it submitted a new claim form. Im 
persuaded that this was an unintentional error. 
Red Sands have gone onto decline the claim saying regardless of whether the digestive 
problems are related to the dogs skin conditions, she always had alopecia over her eyes 
and mouth and therefore it feels its fair to decline the claim as it was present at the point of 
inception.
However, alopecia can have many causes and isnt necessarily caused by allergy. I see the 
first mention of some redness on the head was on 19 December 2019 - outside of the 14-
day waiting period, when the dog was having its third vaccine. But nothing was prescribed 
for it and the vet didnt raise any concerns about allergy. I can see the dog had been seen at 
the vets prior to this as well and neither alopecia or allergy was recorded in the clinical 
history. If these had been evident this is something Id expect to be recorded. So, Im not 
persuaded that in October 2019 or prior to the inception of the policy that it was clear the dog 
was suffering from allergies or a skin condition. 
Red Sands has mentioned that the vet hasnt retracted the clinical history, but I dont see 
that this is relevant as the diagnosis for the visit in October was enteritis and this is related to 
the digestive system. From what Ive seen, I think it is fair that an exclusion is applied to the 
policy for the digestive system as this was clearly within the 14-day waiting period. 
I also think an apology for the miscommunication about the 14-day waiting period is fair and 
reasonable. However, I think Red Sands should remove the exclusions for allergies and skin 
condition from the policy as these were diagnosed at later dates and outside of the 14-day 
waiting period. Red Sands should reconsider the claims in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive given above and direct Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to:
Remove exclusion for allergies
Remove exclusion for skin condition
Reconsider claims in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman