DRN-3827207
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, dealt with a 
chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr S used his Halifax debit card in November 2021 to pay £1,509.93 for two sofas. He says 
that only one sofa was delivered and it was broken so he contacted the merchant. He also 
contacted Halifax and it credited £1,509.93 to his account and made a chargeback claim to 
the merchant. The merchant said that it would refund the payment to Mr S so Halifax re-
debited £1,509.93 from his account. That caused Mr Ss account to become overdrawn so 
he complained to Halifax.
It said that the merchant was happy to help with the refund so it couldnt go any further with 
the claim and it wrote to Mr S in February 2022 to let him know that it would be taking back 
the credit within ten working days. It said that it re-debited the payment 14 days later and 
that Mr S received a refund from the merchant two days after that. Mr S wasnt satisfied with 
its response and says that he didnt receive the letter from Halifax so he complained to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that she 
could see that the letter from Halifax was sent and addressed correctly and that she couldnt 
see that Halifax had made an error. 
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has discussed his 
response to our investigators recommendations with her and says, in summary and 
amongst other things, that he didnt receive the letter from Halifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made but, if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made;
Mr S contacted Halifax in January 2022 to dispute the payment that hed made to the 
merchant  it agreed to make a chargeback claim to the merchant and credited 
£1,509.93 to his account;
the merchant said that the payment would be refunded to Mr S but he would need to 
go to the store from which hed bought the sofas;
Halifax then sent a letter to Mr S in February 2022 in which it said that the merchant 
was happy to assist with the refund so it would be debiting the credit of £1,509.93 
from his account within ten working days;
Mr S says that he didnt receive that letter (although when he complained to this 
service he said that it had been received but not until after the refund from the 
merchant had been made)  but I consider that Halifax has provided enough 
evidence to show that the letter was sent to Mr S and was addressed correctly so I 
dont consider that it was responsible if the letter wasnt received by Mr S or was 
received late;
Halifax debited the credit of £1,509.93 from Mr Ss account 14 days after the date of 
its letter which caused Mr Ss account to become overdrawn  but Im not persuaded 
that Halifax acted incorrectly in debiting that amount or that it shouldnt have caused 
his account to become overdrawn;
the refund from the merchant was received in Mr Ss account two days after that 
which returned his account to a credit balance and Mr S hasnt provided any 
evidence of any overdraft charges that were applied to his account;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Halifax has acted 
incorrectly in these circumstances and I consider that its response to Mr Ss 
complaint was fair and reasonable; and
I sympathise with Mr S for the issues that hes had with the sofas and the difficulties 
that hes experienced, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Halifax to pay him any compensation or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman