DRN-2330362
The complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) charged an increased 
premium on his car insurance policy as a result of a non-fault accident. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr Ws car was involved in a non-fault accident when another car drove into it 
while he was inside his house. He declared the accident to Admiral when he came to renew 
his policy through a comparison website in January 2020, but noticed his premium would 
increase by over £80 as a result. 
 
Mr W paid the additional cost and says he spent hours trying to resolve the issue. He feels 
that due to the nature of the accident, he shouldnt have to pay an increased premium as he 
wasnt involved in any way. He would like a refund of the increased amount, and 
compensation for the inconvenience caused and time spent trying to resolve the issue.
 
Admiral explained that although they appreciate the accident wasnt Mr Ws fault, any 
accident is taken into consideration when calculating a renewal premium. This is why they 
ask customers whether theyve had any accidents before giving a quote. 
They said their evidence from past claim results suggests that, if a customer has made a 
non-fault claim, they are more likely to go on to make a fault-claim in the future. They said 
there can be many reasons for this, the most likely being that these customers have higher 
exposure to everyday driving risks. 
Admiral said other examples include where the customer lives in an area that suffers bouts 
of vandalism, or that the type of car may be prone to damage or theft. So, although a 
customer may not have made a fault claim, Admirals statistics suggest the likelihood of one 
being made is increased.
 
Admiral explained they base their premium calculations on their statistics, and while they 
werent willing to offer a lower premium or refund to Mr W, they did offer to allow him to 
cancel his policy and remove the cancellation fees, meaning he would only be charged for 
the days he was covered.
 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Admiral hadnt done anything wrong. He explained 
that insurance companies are free to decide how to calculate the policy premiums and that 
they arent required to take into account every detail surrounding each claim that is made. 
He understood why Mr W wished to complain, but ultimately didnt think Admiral had done 
anything wrong.
 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So its 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked over everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
It may help to explain that its not unusual for an insurer to increase a premium should any 
accident be reported, whether it was the customers fault or not. And how Admiral calculate 
their premiums is ultimately up to them. Its a business decision and isnt something we as a 
service will generally interfere with. But what we can do is see whether or not they have 
acted fairly in doing so.
 
Mr W applied for a quote ten days before his policy was due to renew, meaning he had 
some time to shop around and see if he could find a lower quote. But I can see he accepted 
the quote given by Admiral on that day and contacted them after the policy had started to 
ask why there had been such an increase.
 
I appreciate why Mr W is unhappy with Admirals decision to increase his premium for an 
accident he had no control over. He was in his home when the accident happened, and I 
understand that his personal circumstances dont fit the examples set out by Admiral when 
they explained the risks they consider. 
But Admiral is entitled to decide how to assess a risk. When calculating premiums, insurers 
take into account a large number of factors. As I said above, its not down to me to tell 
Admiral what factors they should take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go about 
its assessment. Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the 
extent of that risk. Ultimately, the annual premium Admiral charges is essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement and isnt something with which we would usually think its fair to 
interfere with.
 
I appreciate Mr W thinks Admiral should take into account every single customers 
circumstances when renewing a policy. But I dont think this is practical given the number of 
insurance policies its asked to provide on a daily basis. Its common practice for insurers to 
rate a risk on the basis of whether a claim is a fault or non-fault claim  i.e. not based on 
the specific circumstances of each and every claim. And its not unreasonable that they do 
so. So they apply the approach set out above. In addition, the examples they gave Mr W are 
just that, and arent specifically related to him. 
So what I need to do is see whether Admiral have acted fairly in charging the premium it did. 
Admiral have provided specific data showing how they calculate their premiums and the 
amount that is applied if a non-fault claim is registered. Im afraid I cant share this with 
Mr W. But this shows that the increase was applied in line with how Admiral would have 
charged any other customer who provided the same information  i.e. with similar risk 
profiles. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest Admiral have acted unfairly. Theyve offered to 
cancel Mr Ws policy free of charge, which theyre not obliged to do. I think this is fair, and 
because of this, Im not going to ask Admiral to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman