Complaint
Mr L complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream lent irresponsibly to him. 
Background 
Between April 2018 and July 2019, Mr L borrowed five loans from Lending Stream. The 
borrowing history is set out below. 
There was a gap of over seven months in between Mr L repaying loan 1 and borrowing loan 
2. I understand there remains an outstanding balance in respect of loans 3, 4 and 5.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in respect of loan 5. Lending Stream 
accepted that view. Mr L did not agree. As the parties did not accept what our adjudicator 
said, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Loan 
noDate 
startedDate repaidPlanned 
instalmentsAmount 
borrowed
1 28/04/2018 21/06/2018 6 £100.
00
2 02/02/2019 31/07/20
19 6 £300.
00
3 12/03/2019 outstanding 6 £200.
00
4 06/06/2019 outstandi
ng 6 £180.
00
5 15/07/2019 outstandi
ng 6 £170.
00
DRN-1455957Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
I think our adjudicator was right to say there were two chains of lending as there was a 
significant gap in between loans 1 and 2. 
Looking initially then at loan 1, I can see that Mr L applied for £100. Lending Stream made 
some enquiries about his income and expenditure. It also undertook a straightforward credit 
check to verify Mr Ls income. I appreciate that Mr L says he had a poor credit rating and 
that Lending Stream should have checked his credit report in full. But as this was the first 
loan Mr L had applied for, I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information 
provided to it. And looking at what it was told, I can see how Lending Stream would have 
concluded that the loan repayments were affordable. 
With regard to loans 2 to 4, I think the situation was the same. I can see from the information 
that Mr L provided that Lending Stream reasonably concluded that the loan repayments 
were affordable. I cant say that it would have been on notice at that stage that Mr L may 
have had financial difficulties. 
However, I agree with our adjudicator that by the time Mr L applied for loan 5, Lending 
Stream should have done more. At this point, Mr L had two outstanding loans and this 
application was made only a few weeks after loan 4 was taken out. I can see from the 
evidence before me that Mr L repeatedly applied to borrow more than was agreed, which 
indicates that he needed more credit than was affordable.
Putting everything together, I think that by loan 5, Lending Stream should have probably 
realised that Mr L was struggling financially and that he couldnt sustainably repay this 
borrowing. And so I uphold the complaint on that basis.
Putting things right 
I understand Lending Stream may have already undertaken the action I have set out below 
following our adjudicators view. If it has not, as I said above, it appears there is an 
outstanding balance in respect of loan 5. If that is the case and Lending Stream sold the 
outstanding debt to a third party, it must buy it back if it can and then follow the steps set out 
below. If it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below. 
a) Lending Stream must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 5, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr Las though they had been repayments of the principal 
on this loan. If this results in Mr L having made overpayments then Lending Stream must 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated and paid on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. 
b) However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr L. It must not pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal it has already written-off. 
c) Lending Stream must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in 
relation to loan 5. * HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending
Stream must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Lending Stream and Mr L do agree a repayment plan, I remind Lending Stream of its 
obligation to treat Mr L fairly.
My final decision 
I have upheld the complaint in respect of loan 5. If it has not done so already, I require Gain 
Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream to comply with the above putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman