DRN-3600454
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N say HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, has a fraud prevention system 
that is not fit for purpose. 
What happened
On 25 March 2021 Mr N made two transfers from their joint account to another bank. A few 
hours later the banks fraud team called but the line disconnected. Mr N says he tried to call 
back but there was no reply, so he sent a secure message. The transfers were subsequently 
returned to Mr and Mrs Ns account the following day as fraud had not been able to verify 
them. 
Mr N then tried to make the transfers again and received a call but there were connection 
issues again and then he could not understand the adviser. Later that day he received texts 
asking him to call the banks fraud team. He did this and the transfer was successfully 
completed. But he called the bank back as he wanted to be sure that the call was genuinely 
with the fraud team. He failed the security checks and so his online banking access was 
suspended. 
Mr N says he appreciates the need for checks. But they are not timely and having to call in, 
rather than use secure messaging or email, is not good enough. HSBC also refused to 
answer his correspondence when he was trying to restore his online access. Mr and Mrs N 
are unhappy this had to be resolved by a call, not email. 
Mr N seeks an apology, in the way he says the bank has already apologised to Mrs N, and 
compensation to recognise the time he had to spend trying to resolve this problem - though 
this is less important than recognition of the poor service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. She said the bank was entitled to 
block certain transactions for further checks. She explained Mr Ns online access was 
suspended as Mr N was unable to answer some of the security questions, so the bank was 
unable to complete verification. The apology Mrs N received was specifically because its 
fraud team did not attempt a call back when the line disconnected on 25 March 2021, not 
because the bank was at fault by blocking the transaction. She acknowledged Mr and Mrs N  
sent multiple messages about restoring Mr Ns online access. But she said as the bank had 
advised them how to resolve this, she disagreed that it ought to have done more.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr and Mrs N asked for an ombudsmans review. They want 
an explanation why HSBC apologised to Mrs N saying it was at fault, when Mr N was told it 
was not. Why was Mr Ns online account access blocked after hed been verified on the call 
with fraud? They want evidence HSBC tried to call them and point out the transaction was 
not outside their normal spending pattern. The advice they were given to restore the online 
access was unworkable as it was impossible to contact the bank by phone.  Mr N also 
submitted an analysis of HSBCs process versus another banks to explain the failings he 
found.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all of Mr and Mrs Ns comments carefully but in keeping with our role as an 
informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus on the points I find to 
be material to the outcome of their complaint. 
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. I will explain why.
First, I want to clarify what I can and cant consider. A lot of Mr and Mrs Ns dissatisfaction 
relates to the way HSBCs fraud systems and processes operate. We do not have the power 
to consider the processes, policies or systems the bank has in place. That is the role of the 
regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority). Our role is to investigate, in the individual 
circumstances of each complaint, whether a business has made a mistake, if so what impact 
this has had and how it should put it right. 
I understand Mr and Mrs N are not unhappy that their transactions were checked, rather that 
the process to do so wasnt prompt and the phone service was poor. I can see there were 
issues with the initial call from fraud, but HSBC acknowledged this and apologised to Mrs N 
as the team had not successfully called her back. Mrs N received the apology, and not Mr N, 
as she had answered the call, and she then raised the complaint. 
Mrs N was unhappy with this response saying, Mr N had spent a lot of time trying to get 
through to HSBC to find out what the call had been about. HSBC has shown that Mr N had 
called its prospect number and when Mr N spoke to its adviser they apologised for the call 
waiting time. Mr N had mentioned call wait times of 8 and 12 minutes on the normal number, 
but the adviser confirmed the current wait time was 4 minutes. So HSBC feels had Mr N 
stayed on the main call centre number he would have got through a lot quicker  it was his 
decision to end certain calls and try other numbers that elongated the process. I can 
however understand Mr Ns urge to try other numbers and get through faster, but as the 
adviser apologised for the long call wait I dont think HSBC need to do more in this regard.
Mr N asked why his account access was suspended after fraud had verified him. But this 
happened on a subsequent inbound call he made when he was unable to answer the 
security questions in full, not on the call with fraud to validate the transfers.  
I can then see there was frequent correspondence via secure messaging from Mr and Mrs N 
about Mr Ns account access over the following weeks. But I note HSBC made clear on 14 
April 2021 what Mr N needed to do to restore it. I accept calling in wasnt his preferred 
option, but the bank is entitled to define its processes and it had not made an error. He 
spoke to the bank on 19 July 2021 when he was advised his online banking was active. 
HSBC has explained this was an error as additional security checks were still needed, 
however as Mr N was verified by his voice successfully on this call his access remained, and 
the issue was resolved. HSBC upheld a separate complaint that covered this, as well as 
other issues, and apologised for the time the matter had been going on for.  
Overall, whilst I can see the issues have caused significant frustration for Mr and Mrs N I 
cant find the bank has done anything wrong that it has not already acknowledged and 
apologised for. It is entitled to define it policies and processes for things like restoring 
account access and blocking transactions, and I have seen no evidence that it did not follow 
them correctly here. Equally, Mr and Mrs N are of course entitled to opt to bank elsewhere if 
HSBCs processes do not work for them. In their more recent comments Mr N said the transfers were not outside their normal 
spending pattern, but this was only one example the investigator gave as to why a 
transaction may be flagged for further checks. 
Mr N has explained how important an apology is to him, but I think in the instances where 
the bank was at fault it has already apologised. In its letter of 6 April 2021 it said Our 
records show our Fraud Team tried to call you on 25-Mar-2021 without success. I 
acknowledge you have stated you did receive a call from us, but the telephone line went 
dead. In these circumstances I would have expected my colleague to call you back. 
Regrettably they didn't and for this, I sincerely apologise. And as I set out above it 
apologised to Mr N on the call of 26 March 2021 for the long call wait time on the prospect 
line. Finally, in its letter of 13 September 2021 it said, Please accept my sincere apologies 
for your experience as I appreciate the matter has been going on for some time. in relation 
to the adviser giving incorrect information about Mr Ns account access.  
In summary, I dont find HSBC needs to take any further action.
 My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman