DRN-2392476
The complaint
Mr W has complained that ReAssure Limited mis-sold him an income protection insurance
policy.
What happened
In 2005, Mr W spoke with an adviser from ReAssure . The adviser recommended that Mr W
should take out an income protection insurance policy. The policy (which ReAssure
marketed as Mortgage Payment Insurance) would, after a deferred period of 52 weeks, pay
Mr W a monthly benefit of £500 in the event that he couldnt perform his occupation due to
illness or injury. Mr W agreed to the recommendation and the policy commenced.
In 2019, Mr W complained to ReAssure. He said hed understood he was taking out a small
pension for his wife. He said he hadnt wanted or needed the income protection policy. He
also considered the policy was no good to him in any case. This was because his employers
sickness pay lasted only nine weeks, meaning he would have had to wait a further 43 weeks
before he could start receiving benefit.
ReAssure didnt uphold the complaint. It considered that Mr W had been presented with
sufficient information to know the type of policy he was being sold. It was satisfied that an
income protection policy was suitable for him though it conceded that a shorter waiting
period would have been more appropriate given his situation. It therefore offered to reduce
this period going forward to either eight or thirteen weeks, albeit that Mr W would then need
to pay a higher premium.
Mr W was unhappy at ReAssures response. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows: 
ReAssure has been able to provide very little evidence from the time of sale. There is no
fully completed fact find showing Mr Ws outgoings versus his income, his savings and his
entitlement to sickness benefit from his employer. I consider this would have been essential
for the adviser to decide whether Mr W had a need for an income protection policy, whether
it was affordable, and what the appropriate duration, deferred period and benefit level of the
policy should be.
Nor has ReAssure provided a letter from the adviser to Mr W outlining his recommendation
and why he was making it. This letter, in particular, would have explained why the adviser
had decided to recommend a deferred period of 52 weeks even though Mr W has explained
he was entitled to only six weeks full-pay followed by three weeks half-pay from his
employer.
Essentially, the only relevant evidence provided by ReAssure is a personal illustration
apparently produced by the adviser for Mr W which outlines the cost of the policy to Mr W
and which confirms that this is based on a 52 week deferred period.
I acknowledge there is nothing in the evidence to suggest that Mr W should have understood
he was taking out a pension on behalf of his wife. And I cant rule out that the adviser carried
out the sale of the income protection policy in an appropriate way, with the recommendation
being suitable and Mr W being made fully aware of what he was buying. It is possible, for
example, that the 52-week deferred period was chosen for reasons of affordability and/or
because Mr W felt that he had adequate savings to not need a replacement income until
hed been incapacitated for that length of time. But this would be pure speculation on my
part. And given that, on the face of it, the policy is not suitable due to the length of the
deferred period, I consider the onus is on ReAssure to show the sale was carried out
properly. I consider the single piece of evidence, the illustration, is insufficient to 
demonstrate this.
In view of the above, while I consider that Mr W hasnt shown he had reason to believe he
was taking out a pension for his wife, neither has ReAssure shown that it sold Mr W a
suitable policy. I consider it likely that if Mr W had been made aware he was being sold an
income protection policy with a deferred period of 52 weeks, he would have decided against
it.
I therefore consider that, if Mr W decides he no longer wants this policy, even on the
amended terms offered by ReAssure (and I would encourage him to seek independent
advice on this point), it should cancel the policy and refund his premiums, plus interest.
Should he eventually accept my final decision, I consider that 30 days following this
acceptance would allow Mr W sufficient time to decide whether to cancel the policy.
If, on the other hand, Mr W decides to retain the policy, albeit maybe on different terms,
I consider this shows he did want an income protection insurance policy and while the
deferred period was not ideal for him he hasnt necessarily been disadvantaged by this until
now. This is because he apparently hasnt had need to claim under such a policy and has
benefitted by paying cheaper premiums. Therefore, no compensation would be warranted.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. Reassure didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr W has accepted my provisional decision and ReAssure didnt respond, I see 
no reason to change that provisional decision. I consider that ReAssure hasnt been able to 
show that the policy it sold Mr W was suitable for his needs. This being the case, if Mr W 
decides to cancel the policy, I consider that ReAssure should refund his premiums plus 
interest.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, my final decision is that I uphold 
this complaint.
If Mr W decides to cancel the policy (a decision on which I would encourage him to seek
independent advice) and does so within 30 days of accepting my final decision on this
complaint, I require ReAssure Limited to refund him all the premiums he has paid. I further 
require it to add interest to this refund at the simple annual rate of 8%, calculated from the 
date Mr W paid each premium to the date of the refund.**If ReAssure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman