DRN-3314895
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T, complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly 
declined a claim for loss of registration and crisis containment under its Nursery Care 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, T took out a Nursery Care insurance policy with Covea. Following a number of 
suspicious incidents at the nursery which concerned the safety of the children that attended 
the setting, internal and external investigations were undertaken however it was not 
determined who was responsible for the incidents. T worked with the local authority and 
Ofsted, who is responsible for regulating the quality of childcare provisions and its 
registration, to put measures in place to safeguard the children, however the incidents 
continued. T was informed it would need to put measures in place to ensure the setting was 
safe, which would then be reviewed by Ofsted. T felt there was no suitable action plan it 
could put in place to ensure the childrens safety and strongly believed that its registration 
would be cancelled, therefore, it made the decision to close its business while it worked on 
putting measures in place to safely reopen. 
Following the closure of its business, T made a claim to Covea for loss of revenue under the 
loss of registration clause and reputational damage under the crisis containment clause of 
its policy. 
Covea declined Ts claim on the basis that Ts registration wasnt cancelled, but T voluntarily 
made the decision to close its business and therefore the relevant indemnity clause wasnt 
triggered. It also reviewed the crisis containment clause and declined this part of the claim 
too. In doing so Covea said there was no cover under this section of the policy because an 
insured event hadnt arisen and therefore the insuring clause was not triggered. 
T said that this was a really difficult situation, and it didnt take the decision to close lightly. 
However, it was in the best interest of everyone concerned that T closed its business 
because it couldnt guarantee the safety of the children attending its nursery and that was 
paramount. T felt it had no choice because it couldnt guarantee that further incidents 
wouldnt lead to serious injury or death. T said it strongly believed that had it not closed, 
Ofsted would have cancelled its registration, which would have also impacted other 
nurseries belonging to T. It therefore maintained that the loss of licence clause was triggered 
and Covea should meet its claim. 
Covea also complained about the lack of communication from Covea while it looked into Ts 
claim and the length of time it took Covea to provide an answer. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld. He said that the policy 
provided cover for loss of registration and crisis containment and while he was sympathetic 
to the situation T found itself in, he concluded that T made a decision to close its business 
and it didnt lose its registration therefore Covea fairly declined its claim. He also considered 
Ts claim for crisis containment, but he said that the term specifically referred to using the 
services of a public relations consultant or to help mitigate the risk of damage to a businesss 
reputation. As that didnt happen in Ts case, he concluded that Covea fairly declined this 
part of the claim too. 
He also considered Ts complaint about the delays, but he didnt find that there were any 
unreasonable delays. He said that due to the nature of the claim, its expected that it would 
take some time to review and respond, and in the circumstances this was reasonable.  
T didnt agree with our investigators findings. It said that due to the seriousness of the 
events that occurred at the nursery, it had no choice but to close, as remaining open could 
have resulted in serious injury or death. It maintained that Ofsted would have cancelled its 
registration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and carefully considered everything T and Covea have said. However, my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. The purpose 
of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. My role is to
consider the evidence presented by T, and Covea, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of this complaint centres on Coveas decision to decline Ts claim for loss of 
registration and crisis containment. The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Covea 
have a responsibility to handle the claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. I have to decide if I think Covea have applied the terms of the policy in a 
fair and reasonable manner when declining Ts claim. Having reviewed everything available 
to me, I think they did, Ill explain why 
When considering whether or not it was reasonable for Covea to decline Ts claim, I have 
looked closely at the relevant policy terms and conditions.  
Loss of registration 
The relevant section states: 
Cover
In the event of the registration certificate being cancelled during the period of 
insurance by the appropriate authority under the provisions of the regulations 
relating to such registration certificates we will pay you in respect of: 
1. any consequent reduction is gross revenue and increase in cost of working 
or
2. the amount of depreciation in the value of your interest in the premises or 
the childcare business if you are unable to obtain the grant of a new 
registration certificate for a period of 12 months following cancellation of the 
registration certificate and you dispose of the premises.
Covea has said that Ts certificate of registration wasnt cancelled by the appropriate authority under the provisions of the regulations and instead it was T that made the decision 
to close its business, the cover for loss of registration therefore wouldnt respond. 
T said Covea unfairly declined its claim, on the grounds that if it had made the decision to 
continue with its business it would have lost its registration and it would be compromising the 
safety of those that attended its setting and therefore this wasnt an option. 
T strongly believes that if it had remained open, Ofsted would have cancelled its registration. 
I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that this would have happened other than Ts 
own comments. From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Ofsted advised T that it must 
take all reasonable steps to safeguard the children under its care which would then be 
reviewed by Ofsted. Ofsted didnt identify what steps would be acceptable to them. I 
appreciate that this put T in a very difficult position because if they started trading without 
knowing what would be acceptable, they risked losing their registration. 
As our investigator pointed out, the policy contains an exclusion clause which says that 
Covea will not be liable for any loss under this section arising from any cause wholly or partly 
within or under the policy holders control. From what Ive seen, Ofsted left it open for T to 
decide which measures it would put in place, which could be considered as being within Ts 
control. But Im not required to make a finding on this because Covea isnt relying on the 
policy exclusion to decline Ts claim.  
So, while there was always a risk that T may have lost its registration, I havent seen enough 
to persuade me that this was most likely to have happened. Its difficult to know now what 
would have actually happened if T had remained open, and I do appreciate the risks 
associated with doing so and understand why T made the difficult decision to close its 
business. I have a lot of sympathy for T in this situation and I know this decision couldnt 
have been easy. T also told us that it had other businesses too and so if its registration had 
been cancelled, it would have impacted those business too. 
While I understand why T felt it had no choice but to close it business, as per the policy 
terms, Im satisfied that for a claim under the loss of registration section of the policy to be 
considered Ts registration had to have been withdrawn by the regulator, which in this case 
is Ofsted. But that didnt happen in this situation, so Covea wasnt required to consider Ts 
claim any further.  
Having carefully considered whats happened, Im satisfied that Ts registration wasnt 
cancelled and the action to temporarily close its business was voluntary and therefore the 
loss of registration cover isnt triggered.  
Crisis containment costs 
The relevant section states: 
Cover 
We will pay crisis containment costs as a direct result of a crisis following an 
insured event occurring within the territorial limits during the period of insurance.
The following definitions are provided in this section of the policy: 
crisis
a time of severe difficulty in your activities or danger to your activities as a result of                    
an insured event that could, if left unmanaged, cause adverse or negative publicity of or media attention to you or your childcare business or activities
crisis containment costs
The reasonable and necessary costs incurred with our prior written consent in 
utilising the services of a marketing and/or public relations consultant or advisor to 
help mitigate the risk of damage to your reputation
insured event 
injury to any person or damage to material property, alleged abuse by any of your 
employees or a child leaving the childcare business unaccompanied occurring in 
connection with your childcare business
I agree with our investigator that in line with the terms of the policy, the costs covered under 
this section of indemnity are those associated with utilising the services of a marketing 
and/or public relations consultant or advisor to help mitigate the risk of damage to the 
business. Im not aware of any such costs and so I havent considered this any further. 
Delays 
T told us that Coveas handling of the claim, which in its opinion has been very unfair and 
delayed, had serious financial and health implications. It said despite numerous phone calls 
and emails, it was not kept updated as to why things were taking so long. 
I understand the difficult position T found itself in and I do sympathise with the struggles it 
has been through but when an insurer is dealing with a claim, I think some time lag is 
expected, as weve seen here, and I think thats reasonable.
I understand that the uncertainty of not knowing whats happening with the claim would have 
been very difficult for Ts directors and theyve said its impacted their health. I am very sorry 
to hear that. But, as our investigator explained in his view, we can only consider the impact 
of Coveas action on T, as the eligible complainant to our service, and not its directors 
personally.
In summary, for the reasons explained above, I dont consider that Covea acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when declining Ts claim for loss of registration and crisis containment. I 
therefore wont be requiring Covea to do anything differently.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman