DRN-3682120
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about errors and delays by Masthaven Bank Limited with their 
bridge loan. They ask that it refunds loan costs incurred due to the delays and pays 
compensation for their time and trouble. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M agreed to buy a property at auction in April 2021. They had to complete the 
purchase within a month and applied for a bridge loan with Masthaven. Mr and Mrs M say 
there were problems with the application, with a part repayment in August 2021 and with the 
redemption of the bridge loan in January 2022. They say they incurred additional finance 
costs and the problems were stressful and time consuming to sort out. Mr and Mrs M are 
unhappy with the way Masthaven dealt with their complaint.
Our investigator said, based on the available evidence, Masthaven issued the loan offer and 
advanced funds within a reasonable time and within Mr M and Mrs Ms deadline. She said 
Masthavens solicitors had to check the source of funds before Mr and Mrs M could make 
the part repayment in August 2021. Masthaven had told Mr and Mrs M this was required and 
it wasnt responsible for any delay. Our investigator said there was no evidence Masthaven 
caused a delay with the redemption of the loan.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said Masthavens clunky process and service cost them 
additional interest. He referred to Masthavens announcement it was withdrawing from the 
UK market. Mrs M said Masthaven didnt meet its obligations under mortgage regulations. 
She said deadlines were only met because they identified and dealt with Masthavens errors 
and managed the legal, financial and regulatory matters themselves. Mrs M said theyd 
accept a refund of the interest costs related to the delay in applying the part payment and a 
refund of part of the £8,000 arrangement fee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M set out a number of gaffes they say were made by Masthaven. For instance, 
they say they received a request for information which theyd already provided on the same 
day the loan completed. Masthaven continued to send message notifications even though 
they had difficulty accessing the messages on its system, and theyd asked for emails 
instead. Masthaven sent an email saying the loan had been repaid in full when theyd only 
made a part repayment. A letter (about Masthavens privacy policy) was addressed using the 
wrong name. They say a member of Masthavens staff described its checks on sources of 
funds as clunky. Mr and Mrs M say Masthaven is dysfunctional. 
Mr and Mrs M says these errors undermined their trust and they had to be alert to errors and 
problems throughout. They complain about Masthavens clunky process and Mrs M says 
Masthaven failed to meet its obligations under mortgage regulations. This service isnt a 
regulator and we dont have the powers of a regulator, for instance to require Masthaven to 
change its processes. 
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. What I need to consider is whether 
Masthaven treated Mr and Mrs M fairly, whether it made errors that resulted in them 
suffering financial loss or that caused them trouble and upset such that would make it fair to 
require it to pay compensation. In doing so, I dont have to comment on each issue Mr and 
Mrs M have raised. What I do need to do is explain why Ive reached my decision.
I should say here that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M applied for the bridge loan in mid-April 2021. Masthaven issued a loan offer 
on 30 April 2021. The loan funds were provided as required for their purchase to complete 
within the deadline. While Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the application process, they 
havent provided evidence of any delays, significant inconvenience or financial loss due to 
any errors made by Masthaven during the application process.
Mr and Mrs M made a part repayment in early August 2021. Masthaven completed its 
checks promptly. It referred the matter to its solicitor on 3 August 2021, who also acted 
promptly to request evidence about the source of funds. The funds were from the sale of a 
property owned by a third party. The solicitor asked for a bank statement showing receipt of 
funds from the property sale. There were delays in Mr and Mrs M obtaining this and when 
the bank statement was provided (on 20 August 2021) it didnt show receipt of the funds. 
Im sorry about the delay this caused. But I cant see this was due to an error by Masthaven. 
I dont think the solicitors request for evidence of the source of the funds was unreasonable 
such that Masthaven should have asked the solicitor to change its request, and neither 
Masthaven nor the solicitor could have known Mr and Mrs M would have such difficulty 
providing a suitable bank statement. The solicitor agreed to accept alternative evidence, 
which Mr and Mrs M provided. The part repayment was made the next day.
Mr and Mrs M say the solicitor could have carried out checks at the same time as 
Masthaven. Thats not Masthavens usual process, and as I said I cant fairly require it to 
change its process. I dont think it was unfair for Masthaven to follows its process here. I 
think it was right that Masthaven told Mr and Mrs M that it would carry out checks, and that 
further checks would be carried out by its solicitor. But I dont think its reasonable to say that 
it had to provide Mr and Mrs M with full details of its (and its solicitors) money laundering 
checks. This sort of information isnt usually made public, as Im sure Mr and Mrs M will 
understand it could potentially assist fraudsters. 
Mr and Mrs M made the part payment in late August 2021. I dont think Masthaven caused 
any unnecessary delays in the part repayment being applied to Mr and Mrs Ms account. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Masthaven to refund interest as if the payment 
had been made earlier in August 2021. 
Mr and Mrs M were concerned that delays with the registration of Masthavens charge at the 
Land Registry could cause difficulties in re-mortgaging. Masthaven says its solicitors had to 
wait for documents from the vendors solicitor, and there were delays at the Land Registry. 
Masthaven isnt responsible for these problems. Masthavens solicitor started an application 
to expedite the registration process in late December 2021. It couldnt start this process 
earlier as it needed a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer which they provided in late 
December 2021. 
Theres no evidence that Masthaven caused any delay in the loan being redeemed in early February 2022. Mr and Mrs M said they didnt know at the time that Masthaven wouldnt 
cause a delay. But I dont think I can reasonably require Masthaven to pay compensation for 
a delay that didnt happen. 
Mr and Mrs M arent happy about the way Masthaven dealt with their complaint. Complaint 
handling isnt itself a regulated activity so we cant always look into it. While I could do so if I 
thought the way Masthaven dealt with the complaint delayed it sorting out the underlying 
problem, I dont think that was the case here. Whether Masthaven wants to use Mr and 
Mrs Ms feedback to help it improve its process is for Masthaven to decide.
Mr and Mrs M bought the property at auction and had a short deadline to complete the 
purchase. There was a delay with the part repayment when Mr and Mrs M couldnt provide 
evidence of the source of funds requested by the solicitor. There were delays with 
registering Masthavens charge at the Land Registry. Masthaven wasnt responsible for 
these problems. I cant see that any deadlines were actually missed due to errors or delays 
by Masthaven. While Masthaven made some errors the nature of the errors and the 
available evidence doesnt suggest these led to delays or financial loss, or that Masthaven 
could reasonably have known that Mr and Mrs M would be concerned they would do so. 
Overall, I dont think Masthaven treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly so as to make it fair to require 
it to pay compensation.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M found this matter stressful. I dont think I can fairly find that this 
was due to errors or poor service by Masthaven rather than the wider circumstances related 
to buying an auction property, taking out and refinancing a bridge loan and third-party 
delays. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Masthaven to pay compensation, 
refund interest or refund all or part of its arrangement fee.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman