DRN-3804238
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont remove the block from his dormant account. 
What happened
Mr A has a current account with HSBC that was last used in 2014. Mr A subsequently 
moved abroad and his account was made dormant and blocked by HSBC.
In 2021, Mr A contacted HSBC and asked about getting access to his account. HSBC 
explained that to remove the dormant account block it needed Mr A to send identification 
documents like a passport, utility bill, letter from his employer and national identification card. 
HSBC said that if the documents werent in English they would need to be translated by a 
qualified professional. HSBC also said copied documents needed to be certified by a notary. 
Over the following months Mr A sent various documents to HSBC, including copies of his 
passport and identification card as well as a letter from his employer and utilities provider in 
hopes of HSBC removing the block from his account. But each time, HSBC contacted Mr A 
to advise the documents he sent werent sufficient to remove the dormant account block. 
Mr A complained but HSBC didnt agree it had made a mistake and didnt remove the 
dormant account block. But HSBC agreed to pay half the costs Mr A may incur for providing 
acceptable documents, certified by a lawyer on the Legal 500 or UK Government list of 
lawyers abroad. Mr As told us the cost of providing documents is likely to be around £250.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr As complaint. They didnt think HSBC had acted 
unfairly by insisting Mr A following a specific process when forwarding documents, including 
obtaining copies that are professionally certified. 
Mr A asked to appeal and said HSBCs actions went against the Hague Convention 1961 
which sets out provisions for providing copied documents. As Mr A asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr A is unhappy that HSBC has asked him to provide several certified 
documents to verify his identity and address. Mr As forwarded lots of information to HSBC, 
including his passport and identification card. Ive also seen letters from the government in 
the country he lives, his employer and a utility supplier. But HSBCs reviewed all the 
documents Mr A has sent and has confirmed that the process remains incomplete as it 
hasnt received correctly certified documents, in line with the list and guidance it provides on 
its website. Ive looked at the documents Mr A has sent HSBC along with its processing 
notes. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but Im satisfied HSBC hasnt received sufficient correctly 
certified copies of his documents in order to remove the dormant account block, in line with 
its policies. 
Mr As told us he thinks HSBCs actions go against the Hague Convention 1961. But we 
decide complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. And whilst I note what Mr A has said, Im 
satisfied HSBC is free to decide what documents its willing to accept and how copies should 
be certified by a qualified professional. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I havent been 
persuaded that HSBCs identification requirements are unfair. 
Mr As told us the process of obtaining correctly certified documents is expensive and 
inconvenient, due in part to his location. I accept thats the case. But I have to balance the 
cost and inconvenience to Mr A against HSBCs obligation to ensure its customers accounts 
are secure. And I think its fair to note that HSBC has offered to pay half the certification 
costs as a gesture of goodwill. HSBCs advised that if the costs exceed £250 it will require 
evidence from Mr A. Whilst I understand my decision is likely to disappoint Mr A, Im satisfied 
HSBC has made reasonable requests for professionally certified documents and that its offer 
to pay half his costs is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
As Im satisfied HSBC has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances Im not telling it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman