DRN-3459505
The complaint
Mr B says The Private Office Limited (TPO) failed to provide him with sufficient advice and 
information in order that he could make informed decisions about the switch of his Self-
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and investment funds.
What happened
Mr B decided during the summer of 2020 that he needed advice regarding his SIPP. He says 
it had suffered post COVID and he no longer felt it appropriate to self-manage his pension. 
He engaged TPO to prepare a report and provide recommendations about what he should 
do. He also wanted to take some benefits through the Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump 
Sum (UFPLS) mechanism.
TPO produced a suitability report for Mr B dated 7 October 2020. It recommended he switch 
his SIPP from Hargreaves Lansdown (HL) to Novia. It said it could provide him with ongoing 
management of his pension and improve the coherence and diversification of his investment 
strategy through the new provider giving him access to portfolios of funds which met his risk 
appetite. It also provided for a £10,000 UFPLS. Mr B agreed to its recommendations.
TPO advised Mr B to sell all investments in his HL SIPP and move the funds across to his 
new provider in cash. He says funds were available by 14 October 2020. An electronic 
transfer request was sent to HL on 20 October 2020. However, the transfer to Novia didnt 
take place until 25 November 2020. And his funds werent reinvested in its portfolios until 24 
December 2020.
Mr B had several concerns about what happened. He complained separately to HL, Novia 
and TPO. His case and its focus has evolved during its journey. In January 2021 TPO 
responded to matters concerning the chronology of events in switching his pension 
provision, including matters such as delay and the timing of payment of fees. 
TPO accepted responsibility for its role in a short delay effecting Mr Bs new investments. It 
conducted a loss calculation which showed he hadnt been financially disadvantaged. 
Nevertheless, it offered him £250 in recognition of the inconvenience caused.
Mr B wasnt satisfied by TPOs response and his complaint began to expand on his 
concerns, for example about why it hadnt properly explored the potential for carrying out the 
switch of his existing HL funds in specie. TPO explained to him in May 2021 why it thought 
selling down his investments to cash was the right option for him, but Mr B disagreed.
Mr B decided to bring his complaint to this Service. He told us:
The basis of my complaint against The Private Office is not the delay in transferring funds. 
..[It] is that they advised a cash transfer of funds. I was not aware that there was another 
option i.e. in specie transfer. The Private Office did note in the advisory report to me that my 
capital would not be invested while the recommended changes to my pension funds were 
being transacted further explaining that this meant that I would not be exposed to market 
movements during this period of time and there was potential for loss of growth should the 
markets rise. There was no mention of the option of an in specie transfer
I am complaining that the advice was wrong and that the transfer should have been an in 
specie transfer. I would like to point out that subsequent internet research revealed to me 
that it is a matter of public knowledge that Hargreaves Lansdown are amongst the slowest of 
SIPP transferors taking in excess of 30 days to effect a transfer. The Private Office should 
have known this and this should have informed their decision as to how to effect the 
transfer.
Additionally, there was a UFPLS transfer in the process. One of the reasons for the delay in 
effecting the transfer is that Novia's process is to only effect investments after the UFPLS 
process is complete. The Private Office should have been aware of this and Novia's prior 
performance in effecting transfers.
The Private Office has explained to me that one of the difficulties of an in specie transfer is 
that I was not invested in the same funds as they would be investing in through the Novia 
platform. I contend that The Private Office could have provided details of the investments 
that they proposed and I could have re-adjusted my Hargreaves Lansdowne SIPP to reflect 
The Private Office's recommendations.
An Investigator considered Mr Bs case but didnt uphold it. Amongst other matters, he noted 
the constraints of his former arrangements where HL didnt work directly with other advisory 
firms. He thought that in his situation, selling to cash rather than conducting an in specie 
switch was more common because it was generally simpler and quicker. And he didnt think 
TPO could be held responsible for any failings of third parties in the transaction. Mr B 
disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree to the findings and conclusions of the Investigator, Mr Bs 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to issue a decision. This is the final 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I start by noting that Mr B has brought complaints against HL and Novia. I wont be looking at 
the acts or omissions of those parties in this decision.
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why Ive arrived at my conclusion.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by TPO 
for Mr B. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These 
include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to have due regard to the information needs of its 
clients and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B says when offering him advice TPO shouldve raised an in specie switch of his pension 
funds as an option, instead of telling him to sell his investments to cash before the transfer 
took place. He thinks what it told him to do was wrong.
Mr B says TPO shouldve been aware that HL took in excess of thirty days to transfer funds. 
And that where a customer wants to take a UFPLS, Novias processes are such the 
investment of funds transferred is delayed until this element of the transaction is complete. 
He says it shouldve at least provided him with an estimate of the time to transfer the funds.
TPO says theres no requirement in a suitability report to detail the reasons as to why a 
particular course of action has been discounted. But that when providing advice it considers 
all relevant options. For Mr B, it discounted recommending an in specie switch because it 
couldve taken longer to have moved Mr B to Novia. During that time it wouldnt have had 
sight of his investments or an ability to effect changes to his portfolio, including the ring-
fencing of cash and payment of his UFPLS.
TPO says the majority of Mr Bs self-selected holdings on the HL platform were individual 
shares hed selected for dividend yield, a strategy he wished to change. Since it couldnt 
advise on individual stocks retaining them for an unspecified duration during an in specie 
transfer was deemed unsuitable. Any dealings related to the transfer of assets on an in 
specie basis wouldve needed to be undertaken by Mr B.
In its suitability report to Mr B it told him:
Your capital will not be invested while the recommended changes to your pension funds are 
being transacted. This means that you will not be exposed to market movements during this 
period of time and there is potential for loss of growth should the markets rise.
The Investigator asked both HL and Novia for their respective thoughts on conducting an in-
specie transfer of Mr Bs investments.
HL as the exporting SIPP provider said:
We would have been able to facilitate an in-specie (stock) transfer for the client at our side 
of the transfer if the client wanted to proceed via this method, however it would also depend 
on whether the receiving provider can also accept the transfer on an in-specie basis 
If a receiving provider can accept an in-specie transfer and this is the preferred method of 
transfer, we would typically require the receiving provider to request information on the 
existing plan, via a paper discharge form or electronically. We would then provide a valuation 
of the account to the other provider and await their acceptance of the transfer to proceed. If 
the transfer is not proceeding electronically but via paper format, we would also require the 
client to provide us with a completed copy of their discharge forms to proceed.
Upon receipt of the new providers acceptance, we would liaise with the new provider to 
agree the trade and settlement dates to initiate the transfer of any applicable equities. If any funds (unit trusts) are to be transferred, we would liaise with the new provider and the 
relevant fund manager to initiate the transfer of these stocks. We typically expect in specie 
transfers to complete within 6 weeks of us receiving acceptance from the new provider, and 
the clients discharge forms, but this will depend on the processing timescales of the relevant 
third parties involved. Re-registration of funds may need to be requested via paper 
documentation, which is one of the reasons why we suggest that in-specie transfers can 
take longer to complete.
Novia as the importing SIPP provider said:
To transfer a pension to the Novia platform from another provider, the registered adviser 
would submit a re-registration application through our online portal Adviser Zone. The 
adviser will subsequently send a re-registration transfer authority to Novia. Upon receipt, we 
will send the reregistration authority to the ceding scheme to initiate the transfer.
The ceding scheme would then provide us with the valuation of funds/assets held by the 
client. Upon receiving the valuation, we will check if we can hold the assets on Novias 
platform and we would issue an acceptance to the ceding scheme confirming the assets to 
transfer in-specie. If there are any assets that cannot be held, we will contact the adviser to 
discuss the options available including sale of the asset(s) to be transferred as cash.
After Novia has sent their acceptance, the ceding scheme will instruct the relevant fund 
managers to transfer the units to Novias nominee and once received, we will apply the units 
to the clients wrapper. As there are multiple parties involved, re-registration transfers 
typically take significantly more time than equivalent cash transfers as communication 
between ceding, receiving party and fund managers is involved.
In the majority of cases, we would expect the in-specie transfer to take approximately 4-8 
weeks from receipt of the re-registration authority. However there are a range of factors 
which can affect how long the transfer takes and we would not provide an estimate or 
timescale to an adviser or client on an in specie transfer. As much of the process is not 
completed by Novia, we cannot guarantee the timescale for an in-specie transfer.
We could not advise whether Mr B could have had an in-specie transfer instead of a cash 
transfer as we do not know which assets were held in his Hargreaves Lansdown pension. 
Please note, Novia will not process a Benefit Crystallisation Event (BCE) until after the in-
specie transfer is completed and all assets are transferred. Mr Bs had a BCE processed on 
his Novia account on 14 December 2021.
I dont think Mr Bs argument that TPO shouldve made him aware of the option to switch his 
investments in specie is without merit. I also think it wouldve been helpful to have given him 
an estimate of how long things might take. It shouldve discussed these things with him and 
it couldve covered the position briefly in its suitability report.
Had TPO done a better job at recording its rationale for all elements of the switch of Mr Bs 
pension, I think it wouldve set out the same arguments as it has to this Service about why 
selling down his investments to cash was a better option for him in his circumstances. 
Despite Mr Bs current position on this matter, I think its more likely than not at the time hed 
have accepted TPOs advice. I say this because on average lay people tend to accept the 
recommendations of professional advisers.
My finding here is strengthened by the testimony provided by two other firms, which have 
indicated that usually in specie switches can take longer to execute. Theyve set out why this 
is the case, given the processes to be followed and the various parties involved.Further, Mr B informed the Investigator of research hed done which suggested in specie 
switches could take anywhere from 14 days to six months. So, it seems he couldve found 
himself in a worse position than he ended up in.
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs assertion that TPOs recommendation for him to sell down his 
investments to cash before proceeding with the switch to Novia was wrong and led to his 
financial detriment. It wasnt clearly unreasonable advice. He hasnt done enough to show it 
was. 
Mr B told this Service:
Prior to TPO instructing me to transfer my pension investments into cash, a significant 
proportion of my pension investment with HL was in cash. The whole point of transferring out 
of HL to TPO was to get 100% invested. I was partially out of the market because I had lost 
confidence in my ability to invest. I was desperately keen to be fully invested and the 
profiling that TPO did will bear this out. Being out of the market was the last thing I wanted to 
be. This should have been borne in mind by TPO when deciding on the best way to proceed 
with the transfer.
I understand Mr Bs argument. In hindsight he mayve had too much of his funds in cash for 
too long during the period in question. But TPOs advice was about moving him to a different 
investment strategy. He was 63 at the time of the advice. He was hoping to slow down by 
the time he reached 70. So, he was investing for the medium term. Moving away from his 
prior focus on dividend yields to capital growth.
Id note the old adage, it's not about timing the market, but about time in the market. 
Research suggests those who stay invested over the long run in a well-diversified portfolio 
will generally do better than those who try to profit from turning points in the market.
Mr B says one option would have been for TPO to have provided him with details of its 
proposed portfolios so he couldve re-invested within his existing HL SIPP and then carried 
out an in specie transfer. This wouldve been something he says he couldve administered 
easily and quickly. He understood there wouldve then been significant administration in an 
in specie transfer for TPO, but that it couldve proposed a fee for the service.
I note that the suitability report recorded Mr B saying his dividends had been cut by COVID 
leaving his pension plan "absolutely obliterated". He wanted a new investment strategy to be 
put in place in order to help achieve his retirement objectives. Hed previously managed the 
SIPP himself, but no longer had confidence in his own ability to look after it. Moving forward, 
he was happy for TPO to take over ongoing management of his pension.
I think the proposal Mr B now makes muddies the waters and is again somewhat in 
hindsight. And its not clear to me that it wouldve left his arrangements or funds in a better 
position. Given his view of HLs processing performance, complications in terms of the 
availability of certain funds held in Novias portfolios for access by his former HL platform 
and how he was feeling about the management of his SIPP at this time, I dont find the 
arguments he makes compelling.
TPO has previously identified and acknowledged a servicing issue which caused part of the 
delay to the switch and reinvestment of Mr Bs pension funds. However, after conducting a 
loss assessment it found he hadnt suffered a financial loss because of this. It did award him 
£250 for the trouble and upset it caused. I dont require TPO to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman