DRN-2666405
The complaint
Mr B complains that Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd (Endsleigh) provided incorrect 
details of who to contact in the event of a legal expenses insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Mr B is unhappy because Endsleigh mistakenly listed DAS, instead of ARAG, as its legal 
expenses provider in its policy schedule of September 2018. He says this resulted in him 
pursuing a repossession claim with the wrong provider when he wanted to evict his tenants, 
and he now wants Endsleigh to cover the financial losses he says he has incurred as a 
result of its error.
I understand this experience wouldve been frustrating for Mr B, as its clear that Endsleigh 
has given details of a different legal expenses provider in its September 2018 policy 
schedule, which led to him contacting DAS for legal advice in August 2019. However, I can 
see that Endsleigh did subsequently send Mr B a renewal letter in September 2019, which 
included a link to further details on who to contact in the event of a claim, which this time did 
list ARAG as the correct legal expenses provider, meaning that Mr B had been given the 
correct details prior to his repossession claim being submitted in November 2019.
I appreciate Mr B had made enquiries for legal advice before the contact details were 
changed. And he mistakenly received advice from DAS rather than them telling him they 
were not the correct intermediary. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that his 
contact in August 2019 constitutes the submission of a formal claim under the policy. Mr B 
has said that he contacted the insurer for advice in August 2019 in order to issue the correct 
notice of eviction. And it was only after the tenant didnt leave or respond to these notices 
that he got back in touch with the legal provider for further assistance (i.e. to formally pursue 
a repossession claim). 
So, based on what Ive seen, it appears that Mr Bs initial contact in August 2019 was more 
akin to a preliminary enquiry, and a request for advice before submitting a formal claim. 
Therefore, I dont think it can be said that a claim was properly attempted before 
November 2019, as it wasnt until that point that Mr B sought to pursue a repossession claim 
(albeit with the incorrect provider). There also wouldnt have been anything for Endsleigh to 
have indemnified under the policy prior to that point either. So, I consider that Mr B had the 
correct details in his possession following the renewal of his policy in September 2019 to 
make a claim with the correct provider. 
Even if Mr B could be said to have submitted a claim in August 2019, Im not persuaded this 
would make any difference to his complaint, or that it would mean Endsleigh should now 
cover his financial losses, as theres little evidence to suggest that the repossession claim 
would have been covered by ARAG in any event. For example, we do not know if his claim 
had reasonable prospects of success as required by the policy, or if it would have been 
possible to enforce any judgment against the tenant. 
Mr B says that he might have been given different advice if he had originally contacted 
ARAG. And while I acknowledge this is a possibility, it still doesnt suggest that his claim 
wouldve likely been indemnified, and his legal expenses covered. I also note that Mr B later 
took the action of evicting his tenants by paying them off, which wouldve likely precluded 
any successful claim from being made under the policy, no matter who the provider was. So, 
Im not persuaded that Endsleigh can fairly be held liable for his financial losses as a result 
of not making a claim with the correct provider.
However, I do acknowledge that Endsleigh providing the incorrect details in the 
September 2018 schedule has led to confusion and caused trouble and upset for Mr B, 
which could have been avoided if the insurer had provided the correct details in the first 
place. Endsleigh has offered £700 compensation in recognition of its error, but Mr B does 
not consider this to be commensurate to the experience he has had. So, Ive considered 
whether, in the circumstances, this amount is fair.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to 
award further compensation to Mr B, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Endsleigh has had a much greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which 
Im not persuaded it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been frustrating for Mr B. But ultimately, the insurer did 
provide him with the correct details and means to make a claim with the correct provider 
before he seemingly had the need to do so. Therefore, Im not persuaded that any further 
compensation at a higher level is warranted, as I consider the £700 offered by Endsleigh to 
be fair compensation in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr B is also unhappy with the service he received from DAS. But, given 
that they were not acting on behalf of Endsleigh as its intermediary in this matter, the insurer 
cannot be held responsible for its acts or omissions, so I cannot consider the service 
provided by DAS within this decision. 
My final decision
Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd has made an offer to pay a total of £700.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Endsleigh should pay Mr B this amount (if it has not already done so) within 28 days of 
receiving his acceptance of this decision.
Mr B should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr B and Endsleigh as to whether the £700 still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman