DRN-4224603
The complaint
Mr T has complained about several issues concerning the administration of his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) by Embark Services (Embark), formerly Hornbuckle Mitchell. In 
summary, his concerns relate to:
Embark failing to correctly set up VAT registration when commercial property held in 
his SIPP was purchased.
Embark failing to check the property in the SIPP was properly insured.
Embark providing an incorrect SIPP valuation when Mr T was going through divorce 
proceedings.
Embark failing to send rent invoices and rent payments not being made to the SIPP.
Embarks application of fees for non-block insurance and VAT administration to the 
SIPP.
Embarks poor management of the SIPP, resulting in it being worth less than it 
should be.
What happened
Mr T is the owner and director of a business Ill refer to as, Business T. 
In 2015, Mr T bought commercial office space for Business T to operate out of. He used his 
Embark SIPP to purchase 25% of the property, while Business T was used to purchase the 
remaining 75%. The total cost of the property purchase was £800,000. As the property 
tenant, it was agreed that Business T would pay rent totalling £12,187.50 pa to Mr Ts SIPP.
In November 2016, Mr T requested a SIPP valuation from Embark. Embark provided the 
valuation, however it incorrectly stated that Mr Ts SIPP owned 100% of the property instead 
of 25%. Mr T later complained about this, also raising concerns about his SIPPs VAT 
registration, and rent invoices not having been sent.
Embark provided an initial response to Mr Ts complaint on 27 January 2017, apologising for 
errors it had made and, in summary, saying that:
When the property was purchased, VAT registration had been completed incorrectly, 
with it only being set up for the SIPP instead of jointly with Business T. A joint 
account shouldve also been put in place to manage any cash transactions relating to 
the joint VAT registration, but this hadnt happened.
The intention had been for Business T to recover 75% of the VAT incurred on the 
property purchase, with the SIPP recovering the remaining 25%. But, as it was a 
legal requirement for joint property owners to make joint VAT registrations, HMRC 
had rejected the SIPPs claim for VAT.
Its VAT fees werent justified until the correct VAT structure was in place, so they 
wouldnt be applied to the SIPP until this happened.
Finally, Embark set out the steps required to correct the VAT position and offered Mr T £50 
for distress and inconvenience caused. 
On 31 January 2017, Embark sent Mr T its final response on the matter. In summary it:
Apologised for the incorrect SIPP valuation sent and confirmed a correct one had 
since been issued. 
Referred to the solution set out in its 27 January 2017 letter to correct the VAT 
registration, saying it understood Mr T had agreed to this. 
Offered Mr T the £50 distress and inconvenience payment it had previously and 
provided referral rights to our service.
Following a telephone conversation on 16 May 2017, Embark wrote to Mr T advising him not 
to accept its redress offer of 31 January 2017. It explained that if its offer wasnt accepted, 
Mr T could refer his complaint to our service without fear that it had somehow tried to limit its 
obligations to him. It reassured Mr T that its primary focus was to resolve the issues with his 
SIPP, and once this had been achieved and the position of any loss and inconvenience had 
been established, it would revisit the matter of compensation. Embark asked Mr T to 
complete and return the attached paperwork if he was happy to proceed on this basis.
Mr T signed and returned relevant paperwork on 17 May 2017, which, in addition to other 
documents, Embark forwarded to HMRC. 
Having requested an update from Embark, on 26 June 2017, Mr T was told that HMRC had 
confirmed receipt of documents previously sent and steps were being taken to resolve 
matters. 
In August 2017, Embark wrote to Mr T, providing an update on attempts to resolve the VAT 
registration issue with HMRC. Additionally, it apologised for VAT fees not being refunded 
when they shouldve been and provided assurances that it would suspend these fees until 
the VAT position was corrected. Finally, Embark acknowledged that rent invoices were 
outstanding and said this would be chased up.
In September 2017, Mr T forwarded Embark correspondence hed received from HMRC, 
stating that Business T owed £120,000 in underdeclared VAT.
Embark responded to Mr T in October 2017, saying that having considered Mr Ts concerns 
further, it felt a payment of £500, in addition to the £500 worth of VAT fees waived in the 
SIPPs first year, represented a fair offer for distress and inconvenience caused, which Mr T 
was invited to accept. It added that it was still working to resolve the delay in sending rent 
invoices.
On 17 September 2021, Mr T called Embark to complain. Embarks understanding was that 
by not requesting insurance documentation for the commercial property since his SIPP 
started, Mr T felt it had failed to act in his and his SIPPs best interests.
Mr T clarified his complaint on 29 October 2021. In summary saying:
Embark made repeated errors, only one of which was its failure to check the property 
in his SIPP was correctly insured.
The VAT registration hadnt been set up correctly at the outset, resulting in lengthy 
delays recovering VAT his SIPP was due. This also led to HMRC claiming £120,000 
in alleged underdeclared VAT, which took time to be refunded and created cashflow 
problems for his business.
Hed received no follow up from Embark since its May 2017 offer.The incorrect SIPP valuation Embark provided in 2016 meant that hed had to prove 
he hadnt been trying to suppress his assets during divorce proceedings. This led to 
him incurring unnecessary legal bills.
Despite numerous chasers, no invoices were ever sent to Business T for rent that 
shouldve been paid into his SIPP. As a result, there was a significant shortfall in his 
SIPPs value which was further reduced by Embark applying fees for work it hadnt 
done. 
Along with Business T, hed been severely disadvantaged by how Embark had 
handled his SIPP.
Embark sent its final response to Mr Ts complaint on 19 November 2021. In summary it 
said:
Although it had promised to provide an explanation of the services provided for each 
fee applied to his SIPP, it acknowledged this had been delayed.
Property insurance documentation hadnt been requested when it shouldve been. 
Non-block insurance fees applied between December 2016 and September 2020 
shouldve prompted it to do so, ensuring there was sufficient cover in place. As this 
didnt happen, it would arrange for these fees to be refunded.
The issues with VAT registration were dealt with in its final response of 31 January 
2017. And following more concerns being raised, it had then reviewed the matter and 
offered £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. There was no 
record of Mr Ts response to this offer.
In line with its Fee Schedule and Terms and Conditions, it was entitled to charge fees 
for preparing and submitting VAT returns. However, if Mr T wanted to handle this 
himself, he could do so, at which point, the VAT return fee would stop being applied. 
In 2014, it outsourced its property administration service to a third party, before it was 
brought back in-house in 2019. There was nothing to indicate it ever told Mr T that 
the property administration service would no longer be provided or that administration 
responsibilities would be assumed by him. So, it accepted that Mr T expected rent 
invoices to be issued and rent reviews to be undertaken.
It promised to issue missing rent invoices and undertake reviews that had been 
overlooked since the property administration service had been brought in-house. 
However, it confirmed that rent payment reminders wouldnt be sent, so a standing 
order should be set up to ensure no further payments to Mr Ts SIPP were missed.
As the SIPP administrator, Embark wasnt responsible for investment performance.
It was sorry for the service Mr T had received, so it offered him a further payment of 
£100. 
Finally, Embark provided referral rights to our service.
Mr T later referred his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators considered the 
matter, but he didnt think we could look at all the issues Mr T had raised. In summary he 
said:
Mr Ts concerns about the SIPP valuation and VAT registration had been referred to 
us more than six months after Embark issued its 31 January 2017 final response on 
the matter. 
The six-month period began on 31 January 2017 and ended on 31 July 2017.
As Mr T didnt refer his concerns about the SIPP valuation and VAT registration to 
our Service until 4 May 2022, these issues had been brought too late.
Mr Ts remaining concerns about rent invoices; property insurance; the application of 
fees for non-block insurance and VAT administration; and the value of his SIPP had 
been referred in time, so our Service could consider them.The investigator considered the merits of the concerns he felt Mr T had referred in time and, 
in summary, he concluded:
Rent invoices werent sent to Business T when they shouldve been. However, rent 
shouldve been paid to the SIPP irrespective of this. 
Embark should send Business T any outstanding invoices for rent and Mr T, in his 
capacity as its owner, should arrange for missing rent payments to be paid to his 
SIPP.
Rent reviews shouldve taken place and hadnt, so Embark should ensure a review 
was carried out immediately.
Regarding the application of non-block insurance fees to the SIPP, Embark had 
never checked what insurance was in place for the commercial property held within 
it. And this is why it had agreed to refund any fees applied between December 2016 
and September 2020. 
As it appeared that Embark wouldnt charge non-block insurance fees if it was 
satisfied proper insurance cover was in place, it was reasonable to expect it to refund 
any of these fees taken since September 2020.
Embark was entitled to apply VAT administration fees to the SIPP where it was 
responsible for this.
Rental income not being paid into the SIPP when it shouldve been had heavily 
impacted its value. But even if poor performance had caused this, Embark, as the 
SIPP administrator, wasnt responsible for this.
Overall, the service Mr T received from Embark had been poor so it should pay him 
£900 for distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr T disagreed with the complaint points the investigator thought had been referred too late. 
He also explained why he thought a higher payment for the distress and inconvenience 
caused was more appropriate. 
Embark broadly agreed with the investigators position on the concerns he felt had been 
referred in time and the level of compensation recommended for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. However, it disagreed with his conclusions regarding the application 
of non-block insurance fees.
As no agreement could be reached on whether we were able to consider Mr Ts concerns 
regarding the SIPP valuation and VAT registration issues, his complaint was passed to me 
for a decision on whether we had jurisdiction to consider these matters.
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 31 July 2023, where I concluded that Mr Ts complaint 
about VAT registration and the 2016 SIPP valuation couldnt be considered by this service. 
But I said we could consider his complaint points about property insurance; rent invoices; the 
application of fees for non-block insurance and VAT administration; and the value of the 
SIPP. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain 
why.
I should first say that Im very sorry to learn of Mr Ts experiences with Embark. Its clear he 
hasnt received the service he shouldve. As I said in the jurisdiction decision I issued, I sympathise with Mr Ts position and appreciate his strength of feeling about all the concerns 
hes raised. However, in my decision, Im going to concentrate on the issues I determined 
our service could consider and what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Property insurance and non-block insurance fees
Embarks terms and conditions set out the requirements for insuring commercial property 
within a SIPP. Specifically, they state that the SIPP scheme member  Mr T  is responsible 
for arranging suitable Insurance for any property investment in [their] Plan.
Embark is the landlord for the floor in the building Mr Ts business operates from, but theres 
a Superior Landlord who insures the whole building. The cost of insurance cover for the 
floor Business T occupies is included in the service fees it pays. 
As Business Ts premises isnt insured under Embarks block insurance policy, non-block 
insurance risk fees were applied to Mr Ts SIPP between 2016 and 2020, in line with the 
SIPP fee schedule. The fees reflect the additional work involved in checking that commercial 
property insurance provided outside of Embarks block policy is adequate.
In September 2021, Mr T received correspondence from Embark, confirming that as 
insurance documents for the SIPP property were never requested, Embark had been 
unaware of the basis on which it was insured. Accordingly, Mr T argued that Embarks non-
block insurance risk fees had been unfairly applied. I agree. After all, the fees were 
supposed to represent the extra time Embark would have to spend each year, reviewing 
insurance coverage to ensure it was sufficient and didnt put Mr Ts SIPP at risk in the event 
of a claim. Embark acknowledges that it didnt review the details of insurance cover for the 
SIPP property until 2021, so no extra work was carried out which would justify the 
application of non-block insurance risk fees prior to this.
Its worth noting that the lease for the SIPP property states that Embark, in its capacity as 
the trustee of Mr Ts SIPP, is responsible for ensuring the property is appropriately insured 
against loss or damage, so getting insurance documentation from Mr T at the outset was 
crucial. As this didnt happen, I can understand why Mr T feels that Embark failed to act in 
his best interests.
Embark accepts that it shouldve requested insurance documentation much earlier than it did 
and has apologised for not doing so. In recognition of this, it refunded £720 to Mr Ts SIPP, 
representing non-block insurance risk fees it applied between 2016 and 2020. I think this is 
fair.
As the SIPP property remains insured outside of Embarks block insurance policy, Im 
satisfied that, going forward, Embark is entitled to apply non-block insurance risk fees in line 
with the fee schedule Mr T agreed to when his SIPP was established. I wont be asking it to 
do anything further in this respect.
VAT administration fees
Two VAT related fees apply to Mr Ts SIPP. A VAT set up fee for registering the SIPP for 
VAT returns. And a fee for the completion of VAT returns for the SIPP property investment.
As the parties will be aware, in the jurisdiction decision I issued I determined that our Service 
couldnt investigate Mr Ts concerns about the VAT registration of his SIPP. Because of this, 
Ive only considered the fees Embark has charged for VAT returns. In January 2017, Embark wrote to Mr T acknowledging the errors it had made when setting 
up VAT registration for the SIPP and agreeing that VAT return fees wouldnt be charged until 
the issue was resolved. As Embark couldnt complete the work the fees related to, Im 
satisfied this was appropriate action for it to take at the time. 
Unfortunately, Embark went on to make further errors by incorrectly applying VAT return 
fees to Mr Ts SIPP before VAT registration had been corrected. However, following a 
review, Embark identified its mistake and credited the relevant amount (£270) to Mr Ts 
SIPP.
Mr T and Embarks submissions indicate that the VAT registration issue was eventually 
resolved sometime around September/October 2017. At this point, Embark was able to carry 
out the work involved in submitting VAT returns for Mr Ts SIPP to HMRC. Accordingly, 
quarterly VAT return fees have been applied to the SIPP since April 2018.
As Mr T hasnt chosen to assume responsibility for preparing and sending VAT returns, 
Embark handles these activities on his behalf. In line with the SIPP fee schedule, Embark 
charges a £95 fee quarterly for the VAT returns it submits. Although I can appreciate Mr Ts 
reluctance to pay the fee given the issues caused by Embarks poor handling of the VAT 
registration process, Im unable to agree that Embark should waive all VAT return fees going 
forward. I think its reasonable for it to apply the relevant charge for work it has carried out, 
so I wont be directing it to do otherwise.
Rent invoices and SIPP value
Mr Ts SIPP holds his property investment and a cash balance. The value of the SIPP 
depends on several things; however, I think its fair to say that the most significant 
contributing factor is the rental income Mr Ts business agreed to pay. If Business T didnt 
pay rent, Mr Ts SIPP wouldnt receive the expected regular contributions, meaning its value 
would inevitably be much lower than anticipated.
Mr T says Embarks errors, specifically, its failure to send rent invoices, ensure the payment 
of rent, and conduct rent reviews, has caused the value of his SIPP to be significantly lower 
than it should be.
Regarding the payment of rent, the SIPP property lease states:
The Tenant [Business T] shall pay the Annual Rent and any VAT in respect of it by four 
equal instalments in advance on or before the Rent Payment Dates. The payments shall be 
made by bankers standing order ().
And concerning regular contributions, the SIPP terms and conditions state that upon 
receiving these, Embark will pass them onto the relevant SIPP account. They also say:
You can stop and start your contributions at any time (), although charges continue to 
apply whether or not you are contributing.
In his capacity as the owner and director of Business T (the property tenant), Im satisfied 
that the onus was on Mr T to ensure the agreed rent was paid to Embark on time. Theres no 
record of any agreement between the parties that Business T paying rent depended on it 
receiving rent invoices from Embark, so I dont find that by not sending invoices, Embark is 
responsible for the deficit in Mr Ts SIPP value, caused by his business not paying rent.
Although not making regular contributions is permitted under Mr Ts SIPP, the lease is clear 
about the Business Ts requirement to pay rent as prescribed. And the relevant term and 
conditions warn that charges will apply to the SIPP irrespective of whether contributions are made. So, I think Mr T should reasonably have been aware of the importance of his 
business paying rent and the impact of it not doing so.
Under the terms of the lease, Business T was required to pay just over £12,000 in annual 
rent to Embark before it would be transferred to Mr Ts SIPP. Here, the rental income would 
benefit tax relief and allow VAT savings to be reinvested in the SIPP fund. Given the level of 
rental expected, and the period over which Business T paid none (almost seven years), I 
think it was foreseeable that the value of the SIPP would differ substantially from what it 
wouldve been had the agreed payments been made. 
There was no obligation on Mr T to check the value of his SIPP, however, I think it wouldve 
been prudent for him to do so given how much the asset it was holding was worth. 
Generally, wed say its reasonable to expect a consumer to check the performance of their 
pension at least once a year. Had Mr T done so, he wouldve seen the impact of his 
business not paying rent on the value of his SIPP, and hopefully taken steps to pay what 
Business T owed. 
Its worth noting that under the lease, Embark is permitted to apply interest to Business Ts 
overdue rent until its paid. And the SIPP terms and conditions allow it to apply a rent default 
fee (£300) quarterly. I cant see that, having received no rent from Business T, Embark has 
taken either of these actions. If it had, Mr Ts business would need to pay even more to the 
SIPP than it would if the rent been paid on time. 
The SIPP terms and conditions allowed Mr T to appoint a property manager or manage the 
SIPP property himself. Embark set out the wide-ranging responsibilities of a property 
manager, which included ensuring the terms of the lease were met, collecting and 
forwarding rent to the SIPP, and debt management (arrears collection and enforcement of 
repayment plans).
Although Ive seen a note of a call Mr T had with Embark in September 2021 where he said 
hed appointed a property manager, no further details have ever been shared with Embark 
despite requests. So, in the absence of anything to suggest a property manager was acting 
for him, Mr T became the default property manager, and it was therefore incumbent on him 
to ensure rent was paid by his business. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair to say 
that Embark is to blame for the rent arrears Business T has accumulated.
Im mindful that when Mr T started his SIPP, Embark was using a third party Ill refer to as 
Company L to provide some of its property administration services. As part of this, 
Company L was supposed to send rent invoices to tenants like Business T and undertake 
rent reviews. Unfortunately, theres no evidence of either activity taking place. Embark has 
apologised for this, recognising that it also neglected to notify Mr T that it stopped using 
Company L in 2019, and decided to make issuing rent invoices and conducting rent reviews 
the responsibility of property managers like Mr T. 
While I dont find that Embarks failings in this respect altered Mr Ts duty to ensure rent was 
paid by his business, its clear that Embark hasnt provided Mr T with the level of service he 
shouldve been able to expect from it as his SIPP administrator. In my view, it showed a 
concerning lack of regard for the information needs of its client. And in doing so, put Mr T in 
a position where, in an effort to understand what was going on with his SIPP, he had to 
make repeated requests for documentation and clarification which was on several occasions 
either delayed, incorrect, or not provided.
Embarks SIPP literature clearly recognises the complexity of situations like Mr Ts, where 
the SIPP member owns the business which is the tenant of the SIPP property. It notes that 
this connection can sometimes conflict with a SIPP members understanding of running their business and pension scheme as separate entities. Although Embark says this can 
sometimes mean it needs to provide clarification and additional support to ensure certain 
roles and responsibilities are maintained, Ive seen little evidence of Embarks efforts in this 
respect. 
In my view, there were clear shortcomings in the service Embark provided to Mr T. 
Understandably, Embarks repeated errors, sustained over almost seven years, have 
compounded the distress and inconvenience Mr T has suffered. And when errors came to 
light, disappointingly, opportunities to provide clarification and prevent further problems from 
arising seem to have been missed. I think its fair that Mr T receives compensation for this. 
Im aware that Mr T doesnt consider the compensation of £900 suggested by the 
investigator (and accepted by Embark) is enough. But, as Ive said, I cant say that Mr T 
suffered the financial loss hes claiming (the shortfall in the value of his SIPP) because of 
any service failings on Embarks part, such as not providing rent invoices to Business T. I 
dont think Embark is responsible for the rent arrears that have built up.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this case, I think that Embark should pay 
Mr T £900 for trouble and upset caused. I consider this to be fair and reasonable bearing in 
mind the impact of Embarks service failings over a sustained period and what it couldve 
done better. 
Finally, Im conscious that Business Ts rent arrears mean that Mr Ts SIPP is missing 
almost seven years worth of regular contributions. Given Mr Ts concerns about the value of 
his SIPP, I think its in his best interests to ensure the missing rent is paid by Business T as 
soon as possible. Not only to try to restore the value of the SIPP, but also to avoid any 
unintended - and preventable  consequences of the rent not being paid. Mr T may already 
be aware of the possibility of unauthorised payment charges being levied by HMRC against 
his SIPP and him personally if he or his business has benefitted from not paying rent. Im 
sure this is something Mr T would be keen to avoid. As has already suggested, Mr T may 
wish to consider setting up a standing order for rent to be paid by Business T going forward.
Its reasonable for Mr T to want a clear breakdown of his business rent arrears, and I can 
see that Embark sought to do this when it produced a rent reconciliation document. I 
appreciate that Mr Ts experiences over the years, mean his confidence in Embarks figures 
is limited. However, I dont think establishing how much rent needs to be paid should be 
complicated. 
As Mr T has confirmed, Business T has never paid rent to Embark. The lease sets out the 
rent Business T was required to pay annually, so it seems to me that calculating how much 
rent is outstanding after almost seven years of non- payment should be relatively 
straightforward. As a starting point it would seem to make sense for Embark to provide Mr T 
with an updated rent reconciliation document as well as any rent invoices which havent 
already been provided to him. That being said, I dont think its possible to be specific as to 
what exactly recovering the outstanding rent should entail as it will depend on what steps 
Embark and Mr T agree upon. And as the primary responsibility for taking
appropriate action to address the rent deficit is Mr Ts, it will be up to him to decide what to 
do and for Embark to assist him in any way it can  for example by providing up to date 
details of the amounts outstanding. To this end, Id expect Embark to respond to any queries 
Mr T has as soon as possible and to liaise with him about the arrears. It will be up to Mr T to 
decide what to do and how to move forward.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Embark Services Limited must pay Mr T £900 as compensation forthe distress and inconvenience its service failings have caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman