DRN-2411684
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited wouldnt offer her a 
credit note after it paid a cash settlement for a damaged sofa.
Both Mr and Mrs L are named policyholders on their Acasta policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs L, Ill refer to Mrs L from here onward.
Also, Mrs Ls insurance was underwritten by Acasta but administered on its behalf by the 
Castelan Group. Castelan was acting as Acastas agent and all of Mrs Ls correspondence 
was with Castelan so, for clarity, Ill refer mostly to Castelan throughout my decision.
What happened
In 2018 April, Mrs L bought new sofas and a footstool from a high street retailer. At the same 
time, she took out an insurance policy which covered the furniture against accidental staining 
and accidental damage. 
In September 2019, the sofa was badly stained, so Mrs L made a claim to Castelan on her 
insurance. Castelan accepted the claim. Unfortunately the sofa couldnt be repaired or 
replaced so it offered Mrs L the choice of a credit note or a cash settlement. Mrs L was 
unable to find a sofa that she liked so, in December 2019, accepted the cash offer. Castelan 
sent her a cheque for £1,594.20 to settle the claim at the start of January 2020.
In May 2020, Mrs L saw a sofa she liked. She asked Castelan if she could repay the cash 
settlement and accept the credit note instead. Castelan said it couldnt do this as Acasta had 
closed the claim when Mrs L cashed the cheque. Mrs L was unhappy with this and 
complained to us. She told us that shed felt pressured into accepting the cash settlement 
when she couldnt find a replacement sofa. She wants to repay the cash settlement and take 
the credit note instead.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Castelan had explained her options clearly and closed the claim when Mrs L accepted 
the cash settlement. He found no evidence that Castelan had pressured Mrs L into accepting 
this. 
Mrs L disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Castelan accepted Mrs Ls claim so that isnt something I need to consider here. The only 
question for me is whether it acted fairly by refusing to unwind the settlement and offer Mrs L 
the credit note.
Castelan highlighted section 6 of Mrs Ls policy (Claim Process). This said it can choose to 
offer either a credit note or a cash settlement when it wasnt able to clean, repair, or 
replace a damaged product. The policy also explained that a cash settlement will be lower 
than the value of the credit note and takes into account any discounts we may have received 
by issuing a credit note.
So, Im satisfied that under the policy terms Castelan could offer Mrs L either a credit note or 
cash to settle her claim. Here, it gave Mrs L the choice: either a credit note for the high street 
retailer worth £2,657, or a cash settlement of £1,594.20. The difference between the 
amounts reflected the discounts available to Castelan, as set out in Mrs Ls policy. Im 
satisfied that this was fair.
Mrs L was initially unable to find a new sofa she liked so accepted the cash settlement. 
Acasta sent her a cheque on 10 January 2020. The cover letter explained that the cheque 
settled the claim and the insurance policy has now ceased. Mrs L cashed the cheque soon 
after.
Mrs L says she felt pressured into accepting the cash settlement when she was unable to 
find a replacement sofa she liked. Ive reviewed the correspondence from Acasta as well as 
its internal notes about her claim. I think this shows Castelan was quite relaxed about the 
time Mrs L was taking to make her decision. 
For example, Mrs L asked what would happen if she couldnt find a sofa she liked. Its email 
on 21 October 2019 explained that There isnt an expiry but also not unended [sic] 
timeframe. I am happy to give further time 1, 2 or 3 months and contact you each month to 
see if you have found something that you like?. Castelan didnt contact Mrs L after this. 
Indeed, the next communication was from Mrs L at the end of December when she asked if 
Castelan would increase the cash offer.
I appreciate that Mrs L couldnt find a sofa she liked until May 2020. But I find no evidence 
she was pressured into accepting the cash offer. Castelan didnt set a deadline for her to 
decide, said it would give her at least three months before reviewing the situation, and didnt 
contact her again for over two months. Mrs L didnt ask Castelan for more time to decide and 
theres no indication it wouldnt have granted this if she had.
Once Mrs L accepted the cash settlement, Castelan considered the claim settled. I find no 
reason why it should have to reopen it five months later. Overall, I dont think Castelan has 
acted unfairly by refusing to unwind the settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman