DRN-2632802
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) failed to invest his pension 
funds without risk following a transfer to one of its drawdown plans. He said he continually 
told Scottish Widows that he didnt want to lose any money, but he says hed lost over 
£7,700 before it finally put his money into a cash fund. 
What happened
Mr B held a personal pension. He wanted to withdraw his entire fund in the most tax efficient 
way, but his then pension provider would only allow him to take it all out in one lump sum, 
buy an annuity or transfer to another provider. 
 
Having discussed the matter with his bank, Mr B was given the details for Scottish Widows 
who it said would allow him to transfer to one of its pension plans and draw a lump sum each 
year  enabling him to keep his overall earnings below £50,000. Mr B applied to Scottish 
Widows and the transfer of his fund, which was valued at £69,036.77 took place on 
13 February 2020. Mr B says he told Scottish Widows that that he didnt want any risk 
attached to his investment. The funds were split between two Scottish Widows pension 
portfolios. This was all confirmed in a letter dated 19 February with all the associated policy 
documents and cancellation notice following on 29 February 2020. 
In March 2020 Mr B decided to draw his £15,721.31 tax free cash lump sum and an 
additional £8,000 which would be taxable. This meant Mr B had £39,163.93 remaining in his 
plan. When he learned of this Mr B was shocked to hear the value of his plan. Following a 
discussion with the employee who was arranging the withdrawal Mr B asked for his funds to 
be switched to a control cash only portfolio. This took effect on 18 March 2020.
But Mr B complained about the fall in the plans value. He said he told Scottish Widows that 
he wanted to transfer his pension so that he could drawdown the full value from it over the 
next couple of years  in a tax efficient way. So he wanted a no risk investment. He said he 
was disappointed that the fund had dropped by 11% in just a couple of weeks which didnt 
seem to be aligned with taking no risk.
Scottish Widows didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that the value of his fund had 
dropped because of the economic downturn arising from the pandemic. And it could see that 
Mr B had instigated the transfer himself and had chosen to invest in a cautious investment 
so that he had flexible access to his money. Therefore it didnt think that it was at fault with 
the implementation of the transfer. Mr B wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his 
complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter but thought we shouldnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. He said that Mr B had confirmed hed read the key features document and an 
illustration confirming his investment choice before he proceeded with his online application. 
So he thought Mr B should have been aware that his investment wasnt guaranteed and that 
there was an element of risk involved. He said there was no evidence to support Mr Bs 
assertion that hed told Scottish Widows he didnt want to take any risk with his pension 
funds. He said that, from the evidence available, he didnt think Scottish Widows had done 
anything wrong, and the fall in Mr Bs pension was because of an unprecedented fall in the 
financial markets  which wasnt Scottish Widows fault.
Mr B didnt agree. He made the following points in response:
The pension had to be transferred into another pension. He made it clear to Scottish 
Widows that he wanted a no risk fund option and he told them that numerous times 
after the transfer. He didnt understand why it took Scottish Widows so long to 
identify a zero-risk fund for him.
He didnt understand why the lack of phone calls that were available as evidence 
meant that the investigator couldnt accept his version of events. 
Even if he was advised to invest into a cautious fund such a fund shouldnt have lost 
11% of its value in a few weeks. He thought Scottish Widows should have identified 
that situation and ensured he didnt lose so much of his fund value.
He simply wanted to transfer his pension and draw it down, in a tax efficient way, 
until the fund was exhausted. He wasnt looking to get any growth on the fund but 
just wanted to ensure he could drawdown its full value over time. His main retirement 
income was to be derived from his other final salary pension.  
Every time he told Scottish Widows to stop losing money it continued to invest his 
money in riskier funds. He was told the money had been put into riskier funds 
because he wanted to draw it down quickly. 
The investigator said that a cautious fund isnt limited to the amount its value can fall and 
that there were no guarantees when Mr B invested his money. 
So as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I have 
some sympathy for Mr Bs position here as his pension fund value has dropped significantly 
in a short space of time after he transferred it to Scottish Widows, when he simply wanted to 
draw an income from it. But I cant reasonably say that Scottish Widows has done anything 
wrong here, which I know is an outcome that will disappoint Mr B  so Ill explain my 
reasons. 
Was Mr B guided to follow the correct process for transferring and choosing an investment 
strategy?
When Mr B approached Scottish Widows about his pension transfer  having been directed 
to it by another part of the business, he was told that it would be a non-advised sale with no 
advice given. That meant that Scottish Widows should provide Mr B with the information he 
needed to make up his own mind about the investment choices he wanted to make following 
the transfer. 
This was confirmed in a summary of his request to transfer which he submitted on 
12 February 2020. The summary stated that:
 I understand what combining online means,
Ive read the key features
Its my decision to do this onlineI know that this service doesnt include financial advice.. 
The declaration at the bottom of the summary said that Mr B would receive a number of 
documents in the post after his application was complete these included key features, policy 
provisions, policy schedule and rules of the scheme. 
Ive seen copies of these documents which, amongst other information, confirmed the 
charges for Mr Bs preferred investment and confirmation that he was a cautious investor 
and that his money would be invested in the appropriate governed investment strategies 
(GIS) which were designed to lower the risk as he reached retirement age. There was also a 
link to the various investment options and confirmation that Mr B could change the funds at 
any time. 
So Im satisfied that Mr B was made aware of the risk profile that was being used to define 
his default investment funds and he was made aware of the investment options and how he 
could change them. Im satisfied that Scottish Widows did provide all the information it 
needed to and said that it would.
The options available to Mr B and their suitability
As Ive said previously Scottish Widows wasnt giving Mr B advice here it was simply 
providing all the necessary information for him to make an informed choice. One of the 
documents that Mr B was made aware of, prior to his transfer was a guide for retirement 
planning investment options for direct customers.
The guide explained that once you have decided to apply for a retirement account you will 
need to determine where to invest your pension fund. To help you met this challenge, weve 
put together a package of carefully selected investment solutions. These investment options 
are explained in this guide.As well as the investment options detailed in this guide, you 
may also select from other funds from the Scottish Widows pension fund range and fixed 
term cash deposits: please contact us for more information.
The rest of the guide set out how an investor would need to choose between cautious, 
balanced and adventurous portfolios and their retirement outcome (annuity, drawdown, and 
encashment). So when Mr B applied online, he was presented with a choice of the three 
investment risk profiles and had to decide how he wanted to use his funds  in this case he 
chose a cautious approach to risk and to access his benefits flexibly. I think this was broadly 
in line with what Mr B was trying to achieve in that he wanted little or no risk to his money 
and the ability to draw it down flexibly in a tax efficient way  but starting to access his funds 
almost immediately.
So, based on the choices Mr B was allowed to make online, I think it was the most suitable 
one available to him  based on what information he was provided with. And the illustration 
that was part of the pack he was sent after the transaction set out the charges and returns 
Mr B might expect to receive. It also referred to the two Scottish Widows pension portfolios 
which had been used to invest the funds. It was stipulated that just under 20% was invested 
in portfolio five with just over 80% in portfolio four. 
So, Ive looked carefully at the fund sheets that were provided for both portfolios. The fund 
fact sheet for portfolio four states that it invests with an emphasis on fixed term securities, 
with the remainder in equities including a small proportion in listed property securities, by 
investing in passive index tracking funds. While portfolio five adopts high levels of capital security by actively investing almost exclusively in high quality short to medium term 
securities through other funds.
Scottish Widows own investment strategy, for a cautious risk category targeting flexible 
access with zero years to retirement  which is what Mr B wanted, suggested 75% in 
portfolio four and 25% in portfolio five. So I think the initial set up of the portfolio was close 
enough to the standard benchmark Scottish Widows set out and broadly in line with the 
cautious investor status Mr B made his application under. So, Im satisfied that the 
investment strategy Mr B was given was largely in line with his attitude to risk  as indicated 
by the online application process.
The request for a no loss investment strategy
But while I dont think Scottish Widows did anything wrong during the transfer process and in 
providing Mr B with the information he needed to complete his own application and 
investment strategy online, the other point to consider here  which is fundamental to Mr Bs 
complaint is whether he made it clear, before he invested, that he wanted a no risk option 
and whether Scottish Widows was able to help, or ought to have helped him to apply that 
choice. 
  
Mr B says he spoke with Scottish Widows before he applied for the transfer online, and after 
the fall in the value of his plan. He says on both occasions he told it that he wanted a no 
risk option  so it should have advised him about such options and should have ensured he 
was made aware of that facility. The evidence of this and further conversations isnt available 
as Scottish Widows has no records of them, and Mr B wasnt able to record them either. I 
dont dispute Mr Bs version of events here, although Im unable to confirm what might have 
been said during these conversations. 
However, Mr B has told us that although he started the transfer online, he had to call 
Scottish Widows because it wouldnt accept the input of his retirement date of 55 and he was 
told he had to add at least one year onto the retirement date for it to work. Coincidentally it 
might be that adding on that year pushed the portfolio mix from 75 to 80% - although Ive 
said its still broadly in line with his attitude to risk. Mr B said he told Scottish Widows, during 
that conversation, that he didnt want any risk with his investment at that time.
So I think, on balance, its likely that Mr B made that call and it would be reasonable to 
assume that he included a request to help him ensure there was no risk attached to his 
investment. But, while I cant rule out that Mr B was given certain information which made 
him think that Scottish Widows was advising him to record himself as a cautious investor  
even though he wanted a no risk option, Scottish Widows wasnt in a position to be able to 
give Mr B any advice on which risk profile to choose, and had no influence on the application 
process. Any suggestions that might have been made were entirely based on the limited 
information that Mr B had provided and took no account of his actual circumstances. 
As the documented guide that Mr B had been provided with suggested, he could have 
sought financial advice if he wanted to know what investment options would have been best 
suited to his requirements and he was also told that he could select from other funds from 
the Scottish Widows pension fund range and fixed term cash deposits: please contact us for 
more information. I would have expected Mr B to have done so if, having been confronted 
with choices that offered only a cautious portfolio as the lowest risk option, he didnt think 
this was a no risk option. 
Mr B has also said that he didnt expect a cautious fund to have lost the value that it did, and 
in the circumstances, Scottish Widows should have seen what was happening and ensured 
he didnt lose so much of his value. But Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for monitoring 
Mr Bs plan. It set up the pension as instructed and invested the money in accordance with Mr Bs online application, it wasnt responsible for what happened after that, except for its 
overall responsibility to manage its portfolios. 
It was most unfortunate that Mr Bs funds fell so sharply just after the transfer. I think its fair 
to say a cautious investment would not normally expect to experience such falls, but the 
effect of the global pandemic meant these were unusual times, especially for investments. I 
havent seen any suggestion that Scottish Widows literature and information contained any 
guarantees that Mr Bs fund couldnt fall in value.
Mr B has suggested that Scottish Widows invested his money in even more risky funds after 
he first started to lose money. He says he was told this was because he wanted to draw his 
funds quickly.  But I havent seen any evidence that Scottish Widows changed the 
composition of Mr Bs plan after he transferred it. Indeed, it didnt have a mandate to make 
any changes on his behalf as it was a non-advised sale. Only Mr B could make such 
changes or authorise Scottish Widows to do them on his behalf.
 
As I have said previously, I have sympathy for Mr B here as I understand his objective was 
simply to draw down his funds and exhaust them to run alongside his main occupational 
pension scheme income. But I cant safely say Scottish Widows did anything wrong here. It 
carried out Mr Bs instruction following his transfer application and was able to direct him to 
switch to a cash fund when he voiced his concern about the loss hed suffered up to that 
point. 
But Scottish Widows wasnt in a position to give Mr B advice on the individual funds he 
should invest in, it wasnt engaged as his adviser. It simply needed to ensure that it provided 
Mr B with all the relevant information and links he needed to make an informed choice 
around his investments. Scottish Widows wasnt advising here so the actual decision on how 
to and where to invest rested with Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman