DRN-4093918
The complaint
Ms C has complained about the way her motor insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited
(Admiral), dealt with a claim she made on her policy.
What happened
In July 2022 Ms C was involved in an incident with another car which led to her car being 
damaged. She said she had stopped in a narrow road to allow cars travelling in the opposite 
direction to pass. As she started to move again the car that was behind her overtook her and 
in the process of doing so collided with the side of her car causing damage. Ms C didnt 
consider herself to be at fault for the incident.
Ms C said that she and the third party exchanged information at the scene. The third party 
admitted fault and said they would pay for her damage directly and not to involve their 
insurers. When Ms C sent the third party repair quotes it suddenly decided to deny fault, at 
which point Ms C reported the incident to Admiral. 
Ms C provided Admiral with relevant photographs as well as texts and emails she had 
exchanged with the other party. After reviewing those Admiral told Ms C that the best 
outcome would be to agree to a liability split with the third party insurers whereby each party 
would be held 50% responsible for the incident. This was agreed on a without prejudice 
basis. 
Unhappy with Admirals handling of her claim, Ms C complained. She raised a number of 
issues including the fact that she didnt think Admiral investigated the claim properly; she 
said it took the claims handler five minutes to make a decision on the liability split ignoring 
the fact that the third party had admitted fault. She also said Admiral couldnt find her initial 
emails and she had to resend them, that it couldnt trace important calls with her and that 
she had to chase it for responses.
 
Admiral responded to the complaint and upheld it in part offering Ms C £50 compensation. 
Admiral agreed that it delayed responding to emails, the service it had provided during its 
calls with Ms C wasnt to the standard it would have wanted and this included Ms C having 
to hold for a long time and not being put through to a manager. But it didnt think it had been 
wrong about the liability decision or in the way it conducted its investigation. It said that as 
Ms Cs car was also moving at the time of the collision the onus was on her to check her 
mirrors to ensure it was safe to do so. It added that it couldnt rely on the third partys 
admission of liability at the scene and that under the policy it has the right to deal with a third 
party claim as it sees fit. It also pointed out that liability was agreed on a without prejudice 
basis which would enable Ms C to pursue the claim herself if she wished.
The complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service by Ms C. She said 
she wanted Admiral to deal with this as a non-fault claim. An Investigator reviewed the 
complaint but didnt think Admiral should do anything more. The Investigator said that as 
there was no independent evidence such as CCTV or dashcam footage, independent 
witnesses etc Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably in arriving at the decision to settle the 
claim on a 50%-50% basis. She also pointed out that the settlement was on a without 
prejudice basis which would enable Ms C to pursue the third party herself if she wished. 
Ms C didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment this may cause, I have decided not to 
uphold it. I trust that my reasons below will help Ms C understand why I have arrived at this 
decision. 
Ms C has sent a fair amount of information and documentation to us which I have 
considered but will not address individually in this decision. In doing so I dont mean any 
discourtesy to Ms C but Id like to explain that as an informal dispute resolution service we 
aim to keep our decisions as concise and to the point as possible.
  
I appreciate that Ms C is feeling very frustrated with the entire process but I feel that a large 
part of her frustration stems from the fact that the third party initially admitted fault and later 
changed his mind. I appreciate she found his actions immoral, and she also found his action 
of overtaking irresponsible and dangerous. But none of this is Admirals responsibility or 
fault. 
Like most motor insurance policies, Ms Cs policy says that Admiral is entitled to conduct the 
investigation, defence or settlement of a claim on its insureds behalf. I dont think this clause 
is unusual or necessarily unfair but we do expect insurers to apply it fairly and reasonably 
based on the circumstances of each claim.
Ms C said that she didnt think Admiral carried out a thorough investigation and that it 
decided that liability should be split within five minutes. She said she felt Admiral has an 
internal policy to apply a 50%-50% split in liability disputed cases. I am not aware of Admiral 
having such a policy and I havent seen anything to suggest this. From what I have seen 
Admiral considered the fact that Ms Cs car had just started to move to be the reason why a 
split in liability was suggested. Because the onus was on her to check her mirrors before 
setting off. I think this was fair and reasonable and in line with the Highway Code. Admiral 
also cited the lack of independent evidence such as CCTV or dashcam footage or 
independent witnesses as another reason for its decision to agree to a split in liability. I think 
this is also fair and reasonable.
  
Admiral said it couldnt rely on the third partys admission of liability at the scene as they may 
not have understood and may feel they were not at fault after speaking to their insurer. I 
think this is reasonable and as far as I am aware I dont think an admission of liability in such 
circumstances would be binding in any event.
 
Ms C also asked if the 50%-50% offer was only made after the third party denied liability and 
what evidence if any the third party provided. From what I have seen Admiral suggested a 
50%-50% split which the other sides insurer accepted. I dont think this means that the way Admiral handled the matter was unfair or unreasonable though. As I mentioned above 
Admiral felt that Ms C would bear some of the responsibility for the incident.
 
Overall, from what I have seen Admiral did review information provided by Ms C and having 
done so I dont think it arrived at a decision that was unfair or unreasonable. As our 
Investigator explained it isnt our role to decide which party was at fault for the accident. In 
my opinion Admiral has given valid reasons why it believes Ms C would be held to be at fault 
if the matter went to court. 
So I dont think Admiral was acting unfairly in relying on the term in her policy which enables 
it to take over and deal with a claim as it deems appropriate. If, after reviewing the available 
evidence, Admiral does not believe that the matter can be fully defended in court it is 
reasonable for it to deal with it in the most pragmatic and cost effective way possible. i.e. by 
agreeing to a liability split. 
Admiral said that it agreed the liability split but as this was done on a without prejudice basis 
this doesnt prevent Ms C from bringing a court claim against the third-party if she wishes; 
which she will have to fund herself. I think this is fair and reasonable and in line with our 
approach that where a customer disputes liability we feel the insurer should where possible 
deal with the claim on a without prejudice basis. This way the customer isnt prevented from 
bringing their own claim against the third party or their insurer if they wish. At the same time 
the insurer protects their position but dealing with the matter in the most cost effective way 
possible. Admiral also confirmed that Ms Cs no claims bonus wouldnt be affected which I 
also think is fair and reasonable.
Admiral accepted that its service wasnt always up to standard. And this includes the way it 
handled correspondence from Ms C and also during their calls together. It has offered Ms C 
£50 which I think is reasonable. Ms C also mentioned a two hour call that Admiral wasnt 
able to trace. Admiral has provided its file which contains notes of its calls with Ms C and I 
think in the specific circumstances this was sufficient. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman