DRN-2913446
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly defaulted his account. He wants 
Barclays to remove the default.
What happened
Mr M had a Barclays credit card. In 2019, due to his financial circumstances, he didnt keep 
up with his minimum payments. Barclays sent him monthly statements and letters telling him 
what would happen if he didnt pay the arrears on his account.
In August 2019, Mr M contacted Barclays as he was speaking to a debt management 
company. Barclays agreed to give him a 30-day breathing period. After Barclays didnt hear 
back from Mr M, it sent him a default notice and tried to call him several times.
Barclays defaulted Mr Ms account and passed the debt to a third-party debt collection 
agency. In June 2020, Mr M complained about the default. As Barclays didnt think it had 
made a mistake, Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Barclays had contacted Mr M about the arrears and given him notice that it would apply a 
default if it didnt hear from him.
Mr M is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He doesnt think Barclays gave 
him enough support to avoid his account being defaulted. Mr M says Barclays cant prove 
that they wrote to him.
Mr M says hes now repaid the debt and wants Barclays to remove the default. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M says Barclays cant prove that it wrote to him. From the evidence Ive 
seen, Barclays sent Mr M monthly statements and wrote him about the arrears on 26 May 
and 7 July 2019. 
The letters were sent to the address that Barclays held on file for Mr M and this is also the 
address we hold for him. There wasnt any obligation on Barclays to send the notices by 
recorded mail for example. And I cant hold Barclays responsible for any failure in the postal 
service.
Im satisfied that Barclays responded sympathetically to Mr Ms financial situation when he 
made contact in mid-2019. It wrote to him on 2 August 2019 giving him a 30-day breathing 
period to allow him to speak further with a debt management company. 
After this grace period ended, Mr M didnt contact Barclays, so it sent him a default notice in 
mid-October 2019. As Mr M didnt respond by the deadline, I cant find that Barclays was 
unreasonable to apply the default to Mr Ms credit file. 
I understand that Mr M has now repaid the outstanding balance but that doesnt mean that 
Barclays must remove the default. Lenders have a duty to report accurate information to the 
credit reference agencies. I understand that Barclays has marked Mr Ms account as settled 
in full which is correct. 
As I dont find Barclays made a mistake, I cant reasonably require it to remove the default. 
Im sorry that this is likely to disappoint Mr M.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman