DRN-1747569
The complaint
Mr E is raising a complaint on behalf of his business (referred to as T) about the term of the 
contract he entered into with First Data Europe Limited (FDEL). He said he was told he could 
have a term of 18 months but then discovered the term was 48 months. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Having done so, I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr E (on behalf of his business) entered into a lease agreement with FDEL in 2017 
for a payment terminal. He has explained that he was initially told that the contract 
would be for 48 months but has said that an 18-month term was then agreed. I have 
looked at the application information provided and there are three options included - 
hardware purchase, hardware 36-month term and hardware 48-month term. The 
application clearly states that only one contract should be completed. The 48-month 
term has been completed and Mr E has signed the documents.  
Mr E was sent a copy of the agreement dated 8 May 2017. This clearly states the 
term as 48 months.
Based on the documentation provided I find that Mr E should have been aware that 
the agreement had a 48-month term and had he been concerned about this he could 
have raised it at the time.
Mr E contacted FDEL in October 2019 asking to terminate the agreement. This was 
around 29 months after the agreement started. I note Mr Es comments that the 
terminal hadnt been used for around 12 months, but I find it reasonable that had he 
thought the agreement had a term of 18 months (and given the lack of use of the 
terminal), he would have contacted FDEL at 18 months to ask to end the agreement.
As well as the documents provided I have considered Mr Es testimony that he was 
told an 18-month term could be agreed. I note he has said he discussed this after he 
had tried to terminate the agreement with the agent who again confirmed the 
agreement should be for 18 months. Unfortunately, Mr E has no further evidence of 
this. Contradictory evidence has been provided by FDEL as it has said it spoke to the 
agent who confirmed the contract was always for 48 months. 
I understand how frustrating this must be for Mr E but as the verbal evidence 
provided is contradictory and the documents clearly show a term of 48 months, I do 
not find I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about First Data Europe Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman