DRN-3608108
The complaint
Miss F complains about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) cancelling her horse and rider insurance policy following a claim made for treatment 
to her horse.
References to NFU include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Miss F had a horse covered by a horse and rider insurance policy with NFU. In December 
2019 the horse showed a drop in performance and Miss F discussed the symptoms and the 
horses condition with her vet. Based on the discussion the vet diagnosed the condition as 
likely to be Equine Gastric Ulcer Syndrome (EGUS). The vet recommended a course of 
treatment and subsequently raised a claim for the cost of treatment with NFU, including the 
horses medical history as well as invoices supporting the cost of treatment. 
NFU considered the claim and appointed a loss adjuster (C) to validate the claim. From the 
horses medical history, C concluded the horse had previously received treatment for EGUS 
in 2018 (though this was before Miss F added the horse to her policy in February 2019). C 
also interviewed Miss F and the vet as part of their validation. C then wrote to Miss F in 
March 2020 as they thought the previous treatment meant there was a pre-existing condition 
(which should have been disclosed when the subsequent claim was made). They asked 
Miss F to answer a series of questions arising from the investigation. Miss F replied in April 
2020 saying she was withdrawing her claim. NFU replied to Miss F acknowledging the 
claims withdrawal - but saying their investigation of the claim would continue.
NFU then wrote to Miss F in January 2021, saying they considered the claim was fraudulent 
as Miss F had said (when interviewed by C) that the horse hadnt previously had EGUS or 
treatment for the condition. However, given the treatment for EGUS in 2018, NFU 
considered Miss F had misrepresented the facts when making the 2019 claim. Based on 
this, NFU said they were avoiding Miss Fs policy with effect from December 2019 (the date 
of the claim). They also said they were entitled to cancel other policies held by Miss F with 
them (a second horse and rider policy as well as a home insurance policy). NFU also said 
they reserved the right to recover any associated costs incurred under the claim, had it not 
been for the misrepresentation. NFU estimated those costs to be £5,291 to that point.
Unhappy at NFU treating her claim as fraudulent, cancelling her policies and seeking 
recovery of costs incurred Miss F complained to NFU. She said NFU could have simply 
declined her claim rather than investigating it (and incurring additional costs). She also said 
the EGUS treated in 2018 was a secondary condition, whereas in 2019 it was the primary 
condition. As such, the two conditions were not linked. She was also unhappy at the time 
taken by NFU to complete their investigations and that they hadnt communicated with her 
during the period.
NFU upheld her complaint in part. In their final response they said Miss F had made a 
misrepresentation (when making the claim for treatment in 2019) when she said her horse 
hadnt suffered from EGUS before. While the 2018 treatment was for EGUS as a secondary 
condition and the 2019 claim as a primary condition, they saw the latter as being for a pre-
existing condition (and so should have been declared). NFU confirmed their decision to 
cancel Miss Fs horse and rider policy in January 2021 on the grounds that shed made a 
reckless misrepresentation. Her other policies were cancelled on the grounds shed made a 
careless misrepresentation. However, NFU did accept their investigation went on longer than 
it should have done, and they hadnt been proactive. In view of this, NFU upheld that aspect 
of Miss Fs complaint and awarded her £350 in compensation.
  
Unhappy at NFUs response, Miss F complained to this service. The main part of her 
complaint was that NFU had unfairly avoided the policy. She was also unhappy by a lack of 
communication from NFU and their slow service. She said her mental wellbeing had been 
severely affected by the case and she had found it very stressful. She said her vet had put 
forward the claim for treatment of her horse and knew its medical and treatment history. She 
hadnt made a fraudulent claim and NFU could simply have rejected the claim. She was also 
unhappy at the time taken for the investigation and NFU had continued her horse and rider 
policy (and household insurance policy) whilst it took place. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Fs complaint in part, concluding NFU had acted fairly for the 
most part  but not in pursuing Miss F for the costs of their investigation. The investigator 
concluded Miss F knew about the treatment for EGUS in 2018, so it was fair and reasonable 
for NFU to conclude Miss F made a misrepresentation in the 2019 claim. He also thought it 
would have been reasonable for Miss F to have made NFU aware of the previous treatment, 
even though there were different types of EGUS. While accepting the claim had been made 
by Miss Fs vet, the investigator thought the policy wording was clear it covered those acting 
for the policyholder, and that Miss F was aware of the condition being claimed for. The 
investigator also thought NFU had acted fairly within the relevant legislation in treating Miss 
Fs claim as fraudulent and avoiding her policy.
But on the issue of NFU pursuing Miss F for the costs of their investigation, the 
investigator didnt think NFU had acted fairly. Based on the information from the vet at 
the time of the claim, the investigator thought it would have been reasonable for NFU 
to have avoided the policy at that stage rather than investigate further. Based on this, 
he thought the further investigation was unnecessary and so it wouldnt be fair for 
NFU to recover their costs from Miss F. The investigator also thought it was fair for 
NFU to offer Miss F £350 for the time taken by the investigation.
NFU disagreed with the investigators conclusion that they shouldnt pursue Miss F for the 
costs of investigation. In disagreeing, NFU said it was important to investigate potential 
fraudulent claims fully and properly to reach a fair conclusion (given the potential 
implications for Miss F). Not recovering the costs of investigations would mean no financial 
consequences for those who commit fraud and that those costs would then fall to be borne 
by consumers in general. NFU also cited a previous decision from this service that 
concluded they could recover the costs of an investigation from a policyholder. 
Because NFU disagreed with the investigators conclusions, the complaint was referred to 
me to be reviewed. In my findings, I concluded Miss F would have known about the 
treatment in 2018 including that for EGUS (even if only part of the treatment). I also thought 
it the case Miss F would have known EGUS was the condition claimed for in 2019. While the 
claim was submitted by her vet, I didnt think it absolved Miss F of responsibility. I then 
considered whether it was reasonable for Miss F to have told NFU, on balance I concluded 
she should have done. Although Miss F said the condition was different between the two 
occasions, I wasnt persuaded this meant it was reasonable not to tell NFU. I also concluded 
that, as EGUS had been present (and treated) in 2018, it was reasonable for it to be 
considered an existing condition and wouldnt have been covered. Based on this, I 
concluded Miss F made a misrepresentation. I also concluded that in avoiding the policy from the date of the claim (and cancelling the 
other policies Miss F had with them), NFU acted fairly and reasonably based on the 
evidence and information available.
On the issue of NFU seeking to recover the costs of their investigation from Miss F, I didnt 
think NFU acted fairly. From the evidence with the claim and the initial investigation it 
seemed clear NFU had reasonable grounds to both decline the claim and avoid the policy 
(and cancel Miss Fs other policies). It was unclear why it took over nine months from the 
initial assessment and investigation for NFU to write to Miss F to avoid the policy and cancel 
the other policies, when it appeared the necessary information and evidence was available. 
On NFUs other points, I didnt agree not recovering the investigation costs would mean no 
financial consequences for Miss F. Her claim wasnt paid, so she incurred vets fees. And 
having her policy avoided (and others cancelled) for the reasons given by NFU would mean 
it likely she would have to pay significantly more for future insurance policies. I also noted 
the avoidance meant a separate claim submitted in January 2022 wouldnt be considered.
On the previous decision from this service referred to by NFU, while it supported NFU being 
able to recover the costs of an investigation, I thought the circumstances were different, as 
the other decision involved clear deception. The decision also said NFU could recover 
reasonable costs incurred - but some of those costs could have been avoided, so the 
estimate of costs was reduced. 
In Miss Fs case, given what I concluded about NFU being able to decline the claim and 
avoid the policy after the initial investigation, I concluded it wouldnt be reasonable for NFU 
to recover the full costs of the investigation. I thought it reasonable to request the costs of 
the initial investigation, to the point when Miss F withdrew her claim but not subsequent 
costs. If those costs couldnt be determined, given the bulk of the costs at that point being 
likely to be the loss adjusters investigation, I thought it fair for NFU to seek recovery of the 
investigation costs in respect of the loss adjusters costs (£2,018) and the vets costs (£150).
On the issue of compensation, I thought NFUs figure of £350 was reasonable.
Because I came to different conclusions to those of the investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
First, I want to reassure Miss F Ive considered what shes told us about the impact the case 
had had on her, particularly her concern about NFU saying she submitted a fraudulent claim. 
However, its not for me to decide whether someone has acted fraudulently (which Miss F 
denies). Rather, my role is to decide whether NFU has acted fairly towards Miss F. 
The main issue in Miss Fs complaint is whether NFU acted fairly in avoiding her policy (and 
cancelling two other policies she had with NFU) on the grounds of the fraud condition within 
her policy. NFU say Miss F deliberately misrepresented the facts when lodging the claim and 
that she would have known about the previous treatment for EGUS and should have 
declared it. As such, they were entitled to use the fraud condition in the policy to avoid the 
policy, cancel the other policies as well as to seek recovery of the costs associated with 
dealing with the claim, Including the investigation. Miss F says she thought the EGUS was 
different in 2018 compared to 2019 (respectively, secondary rather than primary). She also 
says the claim was made by her vet, who knew her horses medical history. 
Ive considered the information and evidence available on this issue, including that provided 
by Miss F, her vet and that provided by NFU, including the evidence from Cs investigation 
(including the statements from the discussions with Miss F and her vet). Based on this, Ive 
concluded Miss F would have known about the treatment in 2018 including that for EGUS 
(even if it was only part of the treatment, as Miss F maintains). I also think its the case Miss 
F would know that EGUS was the condition being claimed for in 2019, based on the 
diagnosis of her vet. The claim form submitted makes this clear and I think Miss F would 
have been aware of it. While the claim was submitted by her vet, thats standard practice in 
the sector and doesnt absolve Miss F of responsibility as the policyholder. 
Having concluded Miss F would have known about the EGUS treatment in 2018 and the 
diagnosis of the condition in 2019 as part of the claim, Ive considered whether its 
reasonable for Miss F to have told NFU. Again, Ive thought carefully about this, but on 
balance I think its reasonable to conclude she should have done. Miss F says the condition 
was different between the two occasions (secondary in 2018 and primary in 2019). But Im 
not persuaded this means it was reasonable not to tell NFU. Looking at the policy terms and 
conditions relating to Existing conditions it states:
We will not pay any claim for a horse which directly or indirectly arises from, or is 
connected with any accident, illness or condition that happened, manifested, was 
present or had been diagnosed in the horse before the start of cover
As Miss Fs horse wasnt added to her policy until February 2019, then as EGUS had been 
present (and treated) in 2018, Ive concluded it was reasonable for it to be considered an 
existing condition and so wouldnt have been covered. Whether or not it was a primary or 
secondary condition isnt relevant in this respect.
Ive also noted Miss F told C (when interviewed) her horse hadnt suffered from or received 
treatment for EGUS before the 2019 claim, when this wasnt correct. Based on this, Ive 
concluded Miss F made a misrepresentation. 
Having reached this conclusion, Ive considered what the policy says in such circumstances. 
Under the General conditions section of the policy theres a heading Fraud and 
misrepresentation that states:
If you or anyone acting for you:
1. Makes a claim which is fraudulent and/or intentionally exaggerated and/or 
supported by a fraudulent declaration, statement or other device; and/or
2. Intentionally misrepresents, misdescribes or withholds any material fact 
relevant to this insurance:
We will not pay any part of your claim or other claim which you have made or which 
you may make under the policy and we will have the right to:
1. Avoid, or at our option cancel, the policy and all other policies you have with 
us without returning any premium that you have paid;
2. Recover from you any amounts that we have paid in respect of any claim, 
whether such claim was made before or after the fraudulent claim; and
3. Refuse any other benefit under the policy.
In avoiding the policy from the date of the fraudulent claim (and cancelling the other policies 
Miss F had with them), Ive concluded NFU acted fairly and reasonably based on the 
evidence and information available.The other issue for me to consider is NFU seeking to recover the costs of their investigation 
from Miss F. Miss F says NFU could simply have declined her claim (even though she 
withdrew it). She was also unhappy at the time taken for the investigation and NFU had 
continued her horse and rider policy (and household insurance policy) whilst it took place. 
Based on the information from the vet at the time of the claim, our investigator thought NFU 
could have avoided the policy at that stage (rather than investigate further). Based on this, 
he thought the further investigation was unnecessary and so it wouldnt be fair for NFU to 
recover their costs from Miss F. 
For their part, NFU make several points. First, it was important to investigate potential 
fraudulent claims fully and properly to reach a fair conclusion (given the potential 
implications for Miss F). Not recovering the costs of investigations would also mean no 
financial consequences for those who commit fraud and that those costs would then fall to 
be borne by consumers in general. NFU also cited a previous decision from this service that 
concluded they could recover the costs of an investigation from a policyholder.
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance I dont agree NFU have acted fairly. I 
agree with the principle that insurers should investigate claims fully and fairly to reach a fair 
conclusion on whether to accept them. But looking at this case, it seems clear from the 
evidence provided with the claim (the horses medical history) that EGUS had been treated 
in 2018 and was the condition claimed for in 2019. Together with the initial investigation 
(including the interviews with Miss F, the vet and their respective statements) it seems clear 
NFU had reasonable grounds to both decline the claim and avoid the policy (and cancel 
Miss Fs other policies).
 
NFU accept the investigation went on longer than it should have done, and they werent 
proactive. But its unclear why it took over nine months from the initial assessment and 
investigation for NFU to write to Miss F to avoid the policy and cancel the other policies, 
when it appears to me the necessary information and evidence was available. NFU have 
supplied a summary breakdown of the costs of the investigation as part of this services 
investigation (though not when those costs were incurred). Some £2,018 were in respect of 
the loss adjuster (C) and £150 for the vet, but the majority (£3,123) appear to be in respect 
of legal fees. While I havent seen the detail of when the costs were incurred, from the other 
information provided by NFU it seems likely that the bulk of the loss adjuster costs would 
have been incurred in the initial investigation. And the bulk of the legal costs in the following 
nine months. 
Ive also considered NFUs other points. I dont agree that not recovering the costs of the 
investigation would mean no financial consequences (for Miss F). Her claim wasnt paid, so 
she will have incurred the vets fees. And having her policy avoided (and others cancelled) 
for the reasons given by NFU will mean its likely she will have to pay significantly more for 
future insurance policies. Ive also noted the cancellation means a separate claim she 
submitted in January 2022 wont be considered.
Ive also looked at the previous decision from this service referred to by NFU. It supports 
NFU being able to recover the costs of an investigation. But I think the circumstances are 
different to this case. I say that because the other decision involved clear deception (a 
garage estimate of repair costs was deliberately altered to inflate the cost). The decision also 
makes clear NFU could recover reasonable costs incurred. But some of those costs could 
have been avoided, so the estimate of costs was reduced.
 
In Miss Fs case, given what Ive concluded about NFU being able to decline the claim and 
avoid the policy after the initial investigation (and NFU accepting that the investigation took 
longer than it should) Ive concluded it wouldnt be reasonable for NFU to recover the full 
costs of the investigation. Ive thought about what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I think it would be reasonable to request the costs of the initial investigation, 
to the point when Miss F withdrew her claim (April 2020) but not subsequent costs. If those 
costs cannot be determined, given what Ive said about the bulk of the costs at that point 
being likely to be the loss adjusters investigation, I think it would be fair for NFU to seek 
recovery of the investigation costs in respect of the loss adjusters costs (£2,018) and the 
vets costs (£150).
On the issue of compensation, NFU accept the investigation went on longer than it should 
have done, and they werent proactive. I think its fair to offer compensation in these 
circumstances and their figure of £350 is reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Miss Fs complaint in 
part. I intend to require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to:
Pay Miss F £350 in compensation for the investigation going on longer than it 
should have done (if they havent already paid it)
The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Miss F accepts my final decision. If they pay 
later than this, they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Miss F responded to say she could see what the provisional decision was trying to achieve 
and appreciated the support our service had provided to her in considering her complaint. 
She again stated she wasnt a fraudulent person.
However, she didnt feel the impact of NFUs actions on her health and wellbeing had been 
fully taken into account. She said that since the incident shed developed a medical condition 
and had felt extremely stressed. This had impacted her work, where she felt she hadnt been 
able to perform at her best since the incident. 
She also felt shed paid for cover under her horse insurance policy (and a separate home 
insurance) and the cover hadnt been valid, as NFU had declined her claims (the initial claim 
for EGUS and a second claim around the time NFU cancelled her policy).
NFU responded to say they accepted the provisional decision, noting that they had already 
paid the £350 compensation to Miss F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether NFU have acted fairly towards Miss F.
Ive considered each of the points made by Miss F in turn. 
On her first point, I recognize that it will have been stressful for Miss F to have had her claim 
declined and for NFU to have taken a further nine months to then write to her avoiding her 
policy (and cancelling her other policies). Having concluded NFU could have declined the 
claim and avoided her policy (and cancelling other policies) sooner than they did, I 
considered what would be fair and reasonable compensation for the delay, concluding that 
£350 (the figure offered by NFU) was reasonable. While Miss F has described the impact on her health and the stress caused by NFUs decision and the delay, I dont think it changes 
my view on whether NFU acted reasonably in avoiding her policy (and cancelling her other 
policies). And I considered what Miss F told us about the impact and stress shed suffered 
when she made her complaint to this service. So, I havent changed my mind on this point.
I also appreciate Miss Fs view that she isnt a fraudulent person and she holds this view 
strongly. However, as I said in my provisional decision, its not for me to decide whether 
someone has acted fraudulently. Rather, my role is to decide whether NFU has acted fairly 
towards Miss F. I concluded they acted reasonably in avoiding her policy (and cancelling 
others) and in requesting some of the costs of the investigation. But I also concluded it was 
unclear why it took over nine months from the initial assessment and investigation to write to 
Miss F to avoid the policy and cancel the other policies, when it appeared the necessary 
information and evidence was available. So, I concluded it wouldnt be reasonable for NFU 
to recover the full costs of the investigation. I havent changed my view on these points.
On her second point, Ive considered what Miss F has said. In my provisional decision, I 
concluded NFU acted fairly and reasonably based on the evidence and information available 
in avoiding the policy from the date of the fraudulent claim (and cancelling the other policies 
Miss F had with them). As the policy had been avoided (that is, treated as though it had 
never existed) then it was reasonable for NFU to decline the second claim for treatment (as 
well as the first). I havent seen any additional evidence that would lead me to change my 
view on this issue.
Miss F also felt shed paid for cover under her policy (and separate home insurance and 
horse insurance policies) and the cover hadnt been valid. On the cancellation of the other 
policies, having concluded NFU acted fairly, then I dont agree NFU have provided cover that 
wasnt valid.
Based on these considerations, I havent changed my mind on my conclusions. So, my final 
decision remains unchanged, for the same reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Fs complaint in part. I 
would have required The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay 
Miss F £350 in compensation for the investigation going on longer than it should have done. 
But as theyve confirmed they have already paid it to Miss F, I dont require them to take any 
further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman