DRN-2081786
The complaint
Mrs Z complains about problems encountered whilst making transfers from her account with 
Revolut Ltd (Revolut) to an account she held abroad.
What happened
Over a period of 15 days Mrs Z made five transfers from her Revolut account to an account 
she held with Bank S, totalling 405,566 HUF, approximately £1136. Mrs Z says that when 
the first four transfers werent received, she contacted Revolut to find out what happened.  
According to Mrs Z, Revolut said that the funds hadnt been returned. At this point, Mrs Z 
asked Revolut to trace the funds. Mrs Z says that this process shouldve taken two weeks, 
but it took much longer. Some of the funds eventually were returned back into her Revolut 
account, whilst the others arrived in her Bank S account.  
Revolut looked into the complaint and upheld it, they say that they had inputted the correct 
account details. They were unable to comment on the information that was inputted by the 
intermediary banks. And therefore, advised Mrs Z to contact the receiving bank directly to 
get clarity around this. Revolut acknowledged the delay and gave Mrs Z €50 as a gesture of 
goodwill.  
As Mrs Z wasnt happy with the response, she brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator said that it was 
likely the delay was due to the routing information not being correctly updated. But as routing 
information wasnt provided or updated by Revolut or its partner bank, she couldnt hold 
Revolut responsible for the delay.  The investigator felt that Revolut had acted fairly in 
chasing things up for Mrs Z and by making a gesture of goodwill payment.
Mrs Z was unhappy with the view and supplied us with the standard settlement instructions 
(SSI), updated by Bank S. These instructions show the codes that should be used to route 
money correctly between accounts. Mrs Z says this information shows Revoluts partner 
bank used the wrong code when routing the payments. Our investigator reviewed the 
information, but her view remained unchanged. She said that she hadnt seen any definitive 
evidence to show the exact date the routing instructions were updated to counter her initial 
view. And on that basis, she didnt think Revolut needed to do anything further. 
Mrs Z has responded to the investigator and said that shed lost out financially as a result of 
this matter. Shed paid a fee for raising this matter to the complaints body covering her 
receiving bank and wants Revolut to pay this to her. Mrs Z also said she has paid additional 
interest at Bank S as the transfers were late. So, this matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether Revolut are responsible for the funds not reaching the receiving 
bank. And whether they caused delays once some of the funds were rejected by the 
receiving bank. 
In order to send funds abroad there are codes and instructions - bank identifier code (BIC) 
and SSI - that act as a specific address for the receiving bank account. The sending bank 
has to ensure these codes and instructions are correctly applied to the transaction to ensure 
the funds reach the right account. The receiving bank is responsible for publishing and 
updating the codes and instructions that need to be used for its accounts. Both banks may 
use intermediary banks to route money.
Ive reviewed the decision made by the complaints body of the receiving bank that Mrs Z has 
supplied to us. I acknowledge that the decision says bank S havent made an error here. But 
the decision doesnt go further in specifying where the errors occurred. Im aware that Mrs Z 
has spent time trying to get to the bottom of this issue. Ive seen the SSI information that 
shows the partner bank may have routed the funds through bank C instead of bank D. Ive 
also noted that this evidence doesnt show what the instructions were on the days that the 
payments were sent. Due to the mixed evidence, its difficult to determine where exactly fault 
lies. But even if I were to accept that the error was from the sending side of the transactions, 
I still think that Revolut have done enough to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience 
that this matter caused Mrs Z. 
Revolut have acknowledged that there was a delay in the funds reaching the receiving bank. 
I find that the €50 compensation for the level of distress and inconvenience seems fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint. I acknowledge that Mrs Z has been concerned by the level 
of interest that she was charged. She hasnt specified what her losses were. The only 
information I could see was in the decision relating to her complaint against her receiving 
bank and this indicated that the sum charged was relatively small.  Likewise, I appreciate 
Mrs Z has incurred a small fee in also complaining to the complaints body covering her 
receiving bank. But I dont think it would be right to require Revolut to pay for Mrs Z decision 
to escalate a complaint about another financial business. 
Through no fault of her own, Mrs Z has spent time and effort trying to resolve a problem with 
her money transfers. I appreciate this will have been inconvenient and frustrating for her. 
Revolut has already paid Mrs Z €50 in recognition of the difficulties she experienced. And 
overall, Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
To settle the complaint Revolut credited Mrs Zs account with €50. I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, Im not going to ask Revolut to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman