DRN-4373795
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt provide the refund it said 
it would when she cancelled her motor insurance policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise my findings.
Mrs S asked to remove her son from the policy. Advantage advised her to cancel the 
policy and take out a new one to get the best price. It also said she would receive a 
refund of around £60. Mrs S did this  but didnt receive the refund.
Advantage then said no refund was due because Mrs S had paid the right amount for 
the time she was on cover prior to cancelling the policy. It accepted she had been 
misinformed about the refund and offered her £30 compensation.
Our investigator agreed no refund was due, so she thought Advantage had acted 
fairly on that point. But she thought compensation should be increased to £100 to 
fairly reflect the impact on Mrs S of Advantages misinformation.
The policy says, in summary, that if its cancelled, Advantage will charge an insurance 
premium for the number of days the policy was in place. And the arrangement fee for 
the policy will be charged in full. Advantage has now shown it did that. So Im 
satisfied it charged Mrs S the right amount and no refund is due.
Advantage accepts it gave Mrs S the wrong information when it said she would 
receive a refund. Thats not in dispute. The impact of that is avoidable inconvenience 
for Mrs S. She had to contact Advantage again to find out why the promised refund 
hadnt been received. And it was only during our investigation that it set out clearly 
why no refund was due. That should have been provided much earlier.
In these circumstances Im not satisfied £30 compensation goes far enough. I agree 
with our investigator that £100 in total is reasonable. If Advantage has already paid 
£30, it need only pay the remaining £70.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay a total of £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman