DRN-2159477
The complaint
Mr L says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Alliance Leicester, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr L took out a PPI policy during a meeting in 1996 to protect his mortgage repayments. The 
policy gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover and he paid a monthly amount 
for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. So on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L says he thought the PPI was required to obtain his mortgage. I cant know what was 
said to Mr L, but based on what we know about the banks sales process at the time its most 
likely Mr L would have been given information about the policy allowing him to decide if he 
wanted it. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ls comments but I also have to consider how long ago
the sale was and how that might impact what he recalls. Overall, without stronger evidence 
to the contrary, I think its most likely that it was made clear to Mr L that he had a choice 
about whether to take the PPI, and he agreed to take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr L so it had a responsibility to check it was right for 
him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him, based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr L said he was entitled to six months full pay and six months 
half pay if he was sick and redundancy pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
his work benefits and for up to 12 months. It would have allowed him to protect any lump 
sum redundancy payment, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Mr L 
also had life and critical illness cover but these protect against different events and wouldnt 
help with monthly mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. Mr L says he had some 
savings but the PPI would have allowed him to use these for other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to protect them for his future needs. Overall, I think the PPI would have been 
useful if Mr L was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr L all the information he needed before he decided
to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced
and apparently affordable. I also dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy
didnt cover. I note Mr L had a pre-existing medical condition, but he told us he hadnt been 
troubled by it for about a decade, and that he seemed to have grown out of it. He said that 
he was never absent from work because of it.  He more recently sent details of how a 
material he was exposed to at work could trigger his condition. But given his testimony in the 
round, I think its most likely he wouldnt have thought his condition was something he would 
have expected to need to make a claim for, particularly given the policys deferral period.  
This means, overall, I dont think better information wouldve changed his decision.
It follows I dont think Mr L has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman