DRN-3792795
The complaint
Mr D complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim he made on his 
employers income protection policy.
What happened
Mr D is insured under his employers income protection insurance policy. The policy provides 
cover for Mr Ds own occupation and includes a deferred period of 26 weeks.
On 29 March 2021, Mr D was signed off from work. His GP stated that he was suffering from 
work-related stress. Mr D was referred to occupational health (OH) by his employer. The OH 
advisor considered Mr D was unfit for work due to work-attributed stress and symptoms of 
depression and anxiety. Mr D remained unfit for work and his employer made an incapacity 
claim on its income protection insurance policy.
Unum assessed the available medical evidence. It didnt conclude there was evidence that 
Mr D had a significant, impairing mental health condition. So it didnt think hed met the 
policy definition of incapacity and it turned down his claim.
Mr D was unhappy with Unums decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. While she accepted that Mr 
D had been suffering from symptoms of anxiety and depression, she thought the evidence 
indicated that this was due to work-related factors. So she felt itd been fair for Unum to 
conclude that Mr D hadnt shown he met the definition of incapacity.
Mr D disagreed. In August 2022, his GP sent further information in support of Mr Ds claim. 
He said that hed classed Mr Ds condition as work-related stress, but that Mr D had been 
suffering from underlying depression and anxiety. Unum assessed the further evidence but 
maintained its position. 
I issued a provisional decision on 10 October 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I felt it had been fair for Unum to turn down Mr Ds claim. I said:
First Id like to reassure Mr D that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr D needing to make a claim and I
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. Within
this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and nor do
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought about, amongst other
things, the terms of Mr Ds policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether
Unum handled Mr Ds claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy, as these form the basis of his
employers contract with Unum. Mr Ds employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum to
consider whether Mr Ds claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look
at Unums definition of incapacity. This says:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
- Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial
duties of the insured occupation, and are
- Not performing any occupation.
This means that in order for Unum to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out their main duties of their own
occupation. In Mr Ds case, it means that Unum needs to be satisfied that his illness
prevented him from performing the material and substantial duties of his role.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim
on their policy. This means it was Mr Ds responsibility to provide Unum with enough
evidence to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out his duties.
Unum assessed the evidence Mr D provided in support of his claim and concluded that it
didnt indicate that he had a significant, impairing mental health condition or that he met the
policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence to
assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Unum to draw.
The policy says that: benefit payments start when a member has been unable to work for a
period of time, because of illness or injury. We call this the deferred period. This means that
in order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder mustve been incapacitated in line with the
policy terms, for the entire deferred period and afterwards.
Mr Ds deferred period ended on 26 September 2021 and so any benefit would become
payable under the policy from 27 September 2021. As such, for the claim to be payable, Mr 
D needed to provide Unum with medical evidence to show that he had been prevented from
carrying out the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation because of an
illness that had caused him to be unable to work between 29 March 2021 and 26 September
2021.
The initial claim submission
When the claim was first made, Mr Ds employer submitted a claim form on his behalf. This
set out a description of Mr Ds illness, which said:
Anxiety and severe depression brought on by work-related stress.
Unum also reviewed Mr Ds medical records. In March 2021, Mr D saw his GP. The GP has
recorded that (Mr Ds) work levels increasing since returning in September from working
from home. Feels trapped. He was prescribed anti-depressants. The GP issued a fit note
which said that Mr D was unfit to work because of stress at work.
In April 2021, Mr D spoke with GP on a number of occasions. The GP recorded that Mr D
panics at the mention of work and was very anxious about phoning work.
Later that month, the GP referred Mr D to community mental health services. Within his
referral letter, the GP said:
(Mr D) has been coming under increasing stress at work over the last 12 months and thingsfinally came to a head at the end of February.
It appears that a week or so later, Mr D was discharged from community mental health
services as he didnt wish to engage in psychological therapies.
In June 2021, the GP recorded that Mr D had struggled due to receiving a form from Unum.
And in July 2021, the GP noted that Mr D declined a referral to the community mental health
team for counselling, but remains extremely anxious any time work is mentioned.
Subsequently, in September 2021, the GP recorded that Mr D wasnt really improving  any
mention of work results in him becoming tremulous and he freezes. Otherwise is enjoying
things when he is not dealing with work issues. The GP also noted, later that month, that:
Mood wise, things seem relatively stable  but still not ready to return to work. Ongoing
issues with interactions with employer  allegedly they have advised they do not think he is
off with work-related stress which seems odd given I have been seeing him regarding work-
related stress for several months and providing sick lines to that effect.
In October 2021, the GP recorded that Mr D was struggling with issues relating to Unum He
noted that Mr D had been doing some data entry for his wife. Mr D had made errors, had
taken some time out to calm himself down and then had been able to correct them.
And in November 2021, the GP recorded: Mood remains very variable. Any mention of work
results in him becoming distressedMain issues continue to relate to stress around Unum
and work.
Throughout this period, the GP continued to issue Mr D with fit notes which stated that he
was unfit to work due to stress at work.
During this period, Mr D also spoke regularly with the OH advisor. She concluded that: 
While work-related issues may have contributed to the onset of symptoms, the barrier for
(Mr Ds) return at present is significant symptoms of depression and anxiety.
The OH also noted that Mr D does not suffer from any recognisable health condition.
Unum assessed the available medical evidence, including with clinical members of staff.
While it sympathised with Mr Ds position, it concluded that he wasnt suffering from a mental
illness which prevented him from carrying out his role. Instead, it felt that Mr D was suffering
with a reaction to perceived work stressors. While it accepted that he was experiencing
symptoms similar to depressive psychopathology, it felt these symptoms were related to his
workplace and to it. Unum didnt think Mr D was suffering with a significant mental health
condition of a severity which affected his day-to-day ability to function.
Ive thought very carefully about this. Its clear that Mr D was suffering from symptoms which
can also be indicative of a significant mental health condition. Ive noted too that he was
prescribed medication and indeed, it appears the GP asked Mr D whether he wanted a
counselling referral, as well as being referred to community services. But the GPs evidence
during this period is clearly indicative that the main cause of Mr Ds symptoms was work-
place stress. This is a theme throughout Mr Ds medical records and formed the reason for
absence the GP gave each month on the fit note. And while the OH felt Mr D was unable to
work due to symptoms of anxiety and depression, she also didnt think he suffered from any
recognisable mental health condition. Id add too that it appears that Mr D was able to
undertake some data entry on behalf of his wife, even if this may have been limited in
nature.So I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that the evidence showed that Mr D was
suffering from an understandable reaction to workplace stress. And that Mr Ds absence was
likely due to anxiety surrounding his work as opposed to a mental health condition. On this
basis, I dont think Unum acted unfairly when it initially turned down Mr Ds claim.
The further medical evidence
Following our investigators assessment of Mr Ds complaint, Mr Ds GP provided further
evidence which has been assessed by Unum. The letter includes the following:
Mr D at presentation was diagnosed as having severe depressionThe (fit notes) provided
have all recorded the primary issue as stress (as that was what Mr D had felt to be the
primary issue at presentation) however the notes clearly reflect that the underlying diagnosis
was depression.
Unum didnt think that this new evidence was sufficient to change in its position and Ive
thought about this very carefully. This is a finely balanced case. I do acknowledge that the
discussions Mr D had with his GP are noted on his medical records as depression review.
And as Ive said, I accept Mr D was prescribed anti-depressant medication.
But having considered this new evidence carefully, together with the existing medical
evidence, I currently dont think Unums decision here is unfair. I have placed more weight
on the contemporaneous medical evidence which was provided at the time of Mr Ds claim
and which showed his state of health during the deferred period. This evidence did suggest
that Mr Ds symptoms were down to stress at work. Ive placed particular weight on the GPs
note of September 2021 which clearly stated that hed been seeing Mr D for work-related
stress for several months and issuing fit notes in that regard. And in November 2021, as Ive
set out above, the GP stated that Mr Ds main issues continued to relate to stress around
Unum and work. I still think this is persuasive evidence that Mr Ds absence was more likely 
due to the understandable constraints placed on his ability to work because of the symptoms
caused by workplace stress and the stress dealing with the claim had caused him.
The GP also hasnt indicated how or why Mr Ds symptoms wouldve prevented him from
carrying out the substantial and material duties of his role. On that basis then, I dont think it
was unfair for Unum to maintain its earlier claims decision that Mr D hadnt met the policy
definition of incapacity.
It's open to Mr D, in response to this provisional decision, to obtain further medical evidence
in support of his claim, should he wish to do so. This may be from a treating psychiatrist or
psychologist; a mental health practitioner or further evidence from his GP. Any such
additional evidence would need to be sent to Unum for its consideration.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ds position, I currently find it was fair and
reasonable for Unum to turn down his income protection claim.
I asked both parties to provide any additional evidence or comments they wished me to take 
into account.
Unum accepted my provisional findings.
Mr D didnt accept my provisional decision and his wife made further representations on his 
behalf, along with additional medical evidence in support of his claim. Ill summarise these 
submissions below. 
Mr Ds responseMr D didnt feel Id taken into account the actual material and substantial duties of his 
role. He considered that someone carrying out his duties shouldnt be employed if 
they were suffering from anxiety and depression;
Mr D had undertaken some data entry tasks, but these were simple and had been 
very stressful for him;
It wasnt correct to say that Mr Ds home life hadnt changed;
Mr D had been seeing a psychologist, but theyre not authorised to provide evidence 
to anyone besides a GP;
The policy covers work-related stress and so Unum should be accepting the claim, 
rather than hindering Mr D;
Mr Ds employer failed to carry out a Health and Safety assessment which had been 
recommended, which showed it didnt take mental health seriously in the workplace;
Unum doesnt recognise Mr Ds illness as a medical condition, which should be 
treated as an illness or disability.
New medical evidence
Letter from Mr Ds new GP
Mr D provided a letter dated 27 October 2022, sent from the GP who has now taken over his 
care. Ill refer to the GP as Dr C. They said:
The notes Ive referred to in my provisional decision werent just the presentation of 
someone suffering from stress. He has numerous IC10 symptoms of depression 
which would, without doubt, have placed him in the severe category. With 
antidepressants and consultations, Mr Ds symptoms have improved to perhaps 
moderate severity. But even on this scale, Mr D would likely have had great difficulty 
in continuing with daily activities, which would mean it was unlikely he could work;
Anxiety is a core component to Mr Ds symptoms. 
Dr C was very comfortable stating formally as a medical opinion from a second GP  
involved in this patients care that from a clinical perspective, I believe it beyond any 
reasonable doubt that he presented with anxiety and depression that made him 
unable to work, and that this presentation correlates with the dates you require 
evidence from.
Both Mr Ds treating doctors and the OH advisor recognised that the barrier to Mr D 
returning to work was significant anxiety and depression. So it wasnt accurate for the 
OH to then state that Mr D had no recognisable mental health condition.
It wasnt standard practice for a GP to explain how a patients symptoms would 
prevent a patient from work. But Dr C said he failed to envisage a situation where 
anyone would be fit to work based on Mr Ds reviews and information.
Id referred to the content of Mr Ds fit notes, but it was common for a GP to briefly 
explain the reason for absence without going into detail. Dr C felt this was the 
situation here. And he noted that his colleague had referred to Mr Ds depression and 
anxiety. So he considered my decision fell on the stress-related side, despite the 
evidence of the GP whod diagnosed and treated Mr D.
Dr C is another medical professional now treating Mr D and in his opinion, Mr D has 
been suffering with Anxiety and Depression as his principle (sic) diagnosis and 
therefore, he medically disagreed with my provisional decision.
The mental health letters (which Ill refer to below) evidence that Mr Ds confidence 
was dropping with regard to his role in work, which was another common symptom of 
depression and which subsequently related stress to work. The current situation had 
a prohibitive effect on improving Mr Ds symptoms. Anxiety often centres around one 
issue and until its resolved, it can be difficult to improve symptom control.He strongly suggested I reconsider my decision, as he struggled to ascertain how the 
claim had come so far without Unum providing Mr D with financial support.
The mental health therapists letters
Mr D has sent us two letters, dated 17 August and 12 October 2022, from his mental health 
therapist. Again, Ive summarised the key points:
Mr D had not experienced mental health difficulties before, but events over the past 
three years had led to him feeling overwhelmed. The therapist said: Three years 
ago, his manager changed and there was increasing questioning and scrutiny to find 
blame for mistakes. (Mr D) described many incidents of being questioned for 
mistakes he had not made and becoming increasingly concerned about the potential 
of making mistakes despite having a good track record of not doing so. He described 
his confidence lowering and his worry in relation to work increasing to the point 
where in May 21 he received notice that a mistake had been found and he would be 
questioned over it. He described having a breakdown at this point and has been 
signed off since this.
In September 2021, Mr Ds pay was stopped, and his appeal was not upheld. He felt 
that this reflected that his work didnt think he was absent for a legitimate reason and 
hed described a negative comment from a colleague. Since that point, Mr D had 
stopped the hobbies he enjoyed and was reluctant to go out in case he bumped into 
colleagues and felt judged by them.
The therapist had agreed goals with Mr D to improve his mood by reintroducing 
hobbies and relaxing activities into his routine, which would necessitate going out 
more. He said that Mr D was aware that while the work situation remains unresolved 
he will naturally experience heightened stress levels to some degree.
The October 2022 letter stated that Mr Ds progress towards these goals had been 
limited, in part by the ongoing unresolved situation with his work. Hed described 
feeling anxious about bumping into someone from work.
Mr Ds anxiety would increase significantly when there was contact from work.
In later sessions, the therapist had discussed the factors that were maintaining Mr 
Ds distress. He noted that in Mr Ds situation one of the clear maintaining factors of 
his distress is this work situationIt is clear that his symptoms of anxiety and low 
mood increase when he has to be in contact with work or is in a situation where he 
could bump into people from work.
The therapist stated: We have agreed to conclude therapy at this point as he is    
aware that his work related stress is very unlikely to improve in the long term until a 
conclusion has been reached on either returning to work or his employment ending.
Unums response to the further medical evidence
In line with the principles of natural justice, we forwarded the new medical evidence to Unum 
for its consideration. In some cases, we might think it appropriate for a new complaint to be 
set up to consider new evidence which is provided to us following a business final response 
or our assessment of a complaint. But in this case, Unum has considered Mr Ds further 
submissions and has responded as Ive set out below. On that basis, and in the interests of 
bringing things to a close for Mr D, Ive decided to also take this evidence into account when 
reaching my final decision.
Unum said: 
Thank you for providing us with time to respond to the further information provided. In
summary, it does not alter our opinion.Mr Ds mental health therapist has outlined how it is their opinion that his symptoms
are 'very unlikely to improve in the long term until a conclusion has been reached on
either returning to work or his employment ending.' This indicates that the barrier
preventing an improvement in Mr Ds symptoms is a non-medical one (I.E his
perception of the difficulty he has with his current employer). It should be noted that the
policy is set up in such a way that we are assessing his ability to perform the material
and substantial duties of his insured occupation for any employer. And the evidence, as
a whole, strongly suggests that his low mood and anxiety are strongly linked to his
current employer and his relationship with them - something which the policy does not 
provide cover for. I note he has been discharged from therapy as a result (reaffirming
that his main issues are non-medical and can't be helped with psychological therapy,
because external factors dictate his feelings of low mood and anxiety, as opposed to
globally impairing mental health condition globally impairing all aspects of his function).
We note the GP is disputing your Ombudsman's conclusions in the provisional decision.
From reviewing their comments, I think it is fair to conclude the GP does not have a
clear understanding of the policy. We are not assessing Mr Ds fitness to work, we
are assessing whether he is incapacitated, as it is defined in the policy. Our assessment
is not looking to discredit any diagnosis the GP has made but, as it is clear there are
non medical factors preventing a return to work, and that these same issues were the
cause for his absence, we cannot conclude he is incapacitated (in the way it is defined
in the policy). We also note that the GP's letter is authored for the purpose of
challenging the claim and is not readily available medical evidence that improves our
understanding of Mr Ds functional capability in the period between March and
September 2021. It should also be noted claims are not paid on a diagnosis alone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I still think it was fair for Unum to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
Id like to thank Mr D for sending in the further medical evidence hes provided. Id like to 
reassure him that Ive considered it very carefully. As I set out in my provisional decision, this 
is a finely balanced case. I must point out that Unum isnt responsible for any failure of Mr 
Ds employer to carry out any health assessments he may have been recommended.
It remains the case that its for Mr D to show that he has a valid claim on his policy and that 
he meets the policy definition of incapacitated. As such, Mr D needs to provide Unum with 
medical evidence to demonstrate that he was prevented from carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of his insured occupation because of an illness which had caused him to 
be unable to work between 29 March 2021 and 26 September 2021  the entirety of the 
deferred period.
Dr Cs letter sets out Mr Ds symptoms and his current diagnosis. I understand Mr C has 
been given a formal diagnosis of anxiety and depression and that his symptoms are now 
moderate. Its also clear that Mr D isnt fit to work  but I agree with Unum that this doesnt 
mean that Mr D was incapacitated in line with the policy terms during the deferred period.
Ive borne in mind that Dr Cs letter, whilst helpful, was written around eighteen months after 
the claim was first made. It isnt contemporaneous evidence of Mr Ds health during the 
deferred period. Its clear from the medical records (and by Dr Cs own account) that he wasnt responsible for Mr Ds care during the deferred period or immediately afterwards. His 
opinion seems to be based on a retrospective review of Mr Ds previous GPs notes. 
In my view, the contemporaneous medical evidence provided by Mr Ds treating doctor 
during the relevant period is likely to be the most accurate record of the symptoms Mr D 
presented with between March and September 2021. And so in my view, this evidence is 
particularly persuasive. For completeness, Ill set out again what I think are the key entries in 
Mr Ds medical records:
(Mr D) has been coming under increasing stress at work over the last 12 months and things
finally came to a head at the end of February.
In September 2021 Mr D wasnt really improving  any mention of work results in him 
becoming tremulous and he freezes. Otherwise is enjoying things when he is not dealing 
with work issues. And the GP noted, later that month, that:
Mood wise, things seem relatively stable  but still not ready to return to work. Ongoing
issues with interactions with employer  allegedly they have advised they do not think he is
off with work-related stress which seems odd given I have been seeing him regarding work-
related stress for several months and providing sick lines to that effect.
In November 2021, the GP recorded: Mood remains very variable. Any mention of work
results in him becoming distressedMain issues continue to relate to stress around Unum
and work.
As such then, I still dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to rely on this 
contemporaneous evidence to conclude that the cause of Mr Ds absence from work was 
work-related stress, rather than a recognisable mental health condition. And as I set out 
above, this had also been the OH advisors ultimate conclusion.
Ive also carefully considered the mental health therapists letters  although I appreciate 
they dont apply to the deferred period timeframe. The mental health therapist is a specialist 
in mental health conditions, rather than a general practitioner.  And so I think it was 
reasonable and appropriate for Unum to consider the therapists evidence when it looked 
again at Mr Ds claim.
As Ive set out above, the therapist stated that: one of the clear maintaining factors of (Mr 
Ds) distress is this work situationIt is clear that his symptoms of anxiety and low mood 
increase when he has to be in contact with work or is in a situation where he could bump into 
people from work. And ultimately, he said: we have agreed to conclude therapy at this point 
as he is aware that his work related stress is very unlikely to improve in the long term until a 
conclusion has been reached on either returning to work or his employment ending.
Unum concluded that this evidence showed that the barrier to Mr Ds recovery wasnt 
because of a medical condition  but was instead down to a non-medical issue. I dont think 
this was an unfair position for Unum to take. I think the mental health therapists letter clearly 
states that Mr Ds employment situation was one of the major causes of his distress. And its 
clear that therapy was stopped, as Mr Ds work-related stress was unlikely to improve in the 
long term until his employment situation was resolved. In my view, this evidence does point 
to work-related stress and Mr Ds employment issues being at least a main cause of his 
symptoms. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to rely on this evidence to 
conclude that Mr Ds absence from work wasnt because of a functional impairment  
instead it was because of unresolved issues in his workplace.Overall, I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mr Ds position. Its clear that he has been 
suffering from distressing symptoms for some time now and from his evidence, I can see 
that this has had a real impact on his life and indeed, on his family. I also dont doubt that Mr 
Ds work-related stress has left him unable to work for his current employer. But I still find it 
was reasonable for Unum to rely on the totality of the medical evidence to conclude that Mr 
D was suffering from an understandable reaction to workplace stress. And that his absence 
was likely due to anxiety surrounding his work as opposed to a mental health condition. Id 
add too that I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that the available evidence 
doesnt support that Mr D is unable to work for any employer in his own occupation. On this 
basis, I still dont think Unum acted unfairly when it turned down Mr Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman