DRN-3327367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (EIOP) have not fairly 
handled their claim for subsidence to their property under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by the 
Investigator previously. So, Ill focus on the key points I have focused on within my decision.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs F first noticed cracks at their property. They reported this to 
EIOP, but the surveyor found it was not subsidence, so no claim was pursued at this 
time.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs F raised a claim with EIOP after finding the cracks had 
widened. EIOP appointed its contractor (Ill refer to it as G) to investigate the claim.
G attended the property and undertook preliminary investigations in February 2020. 
Gs initial summarisations were that the subsidence was likely caused by clay 
shrinkage and local shrubs could be a contributing factor.
In order to investigate the cause of the subsidence G has:
- dug two trial holes around the property;
- sunk bore holes into each of the trial holes and taken soil samples for analysis;
- undertaken a CCTV survey of the drains located near the damage;
- monitored movement of the cracks and level monitoring between February and 
October 2020.
The trial holes found the soil below ground level to be a firm clay with no particular 
signs of wetting or drying. No root samples were recovered from either hole.
The soil from the bore holes were tested by an independent laboratory which found 
the clay soil had an intermediate to high plasticity range.
The crack monitoring showed initial opening of the cracks between February and 
June 2020 but no meaningful changes in the cracks between June and October 
2020. 
Level monitoring showed changes in some areas, but all changes appeared to be 
seasonal  with the cracks opening and closing at different times of the year. 
G found that the subsidence was likely to be caused by changes in the weather 
affecting the level of moisture in the soil. They recommended local shrubs be 
removed and hellibars be inserted into certain parts of the property to avoid any 
further movement.
Mr and Mrs F disagree with this finding. They believe the movement is most likely 
caused by damaged sewer pipes near their property; possible damage caused by the 
evacuation of land at a neighbouring property; or an earthquake that struck the area 
in 2017. 
EIOP asked for a senior surveyor to review the findings. He agreed with the original 
report that the movement was caused by cyclical clay shrinkage and repair by 
masonry reinforcement would be sufficient to prevent future damage.
EIOP have been unable to carry out the recommended repairs as Mr and Mrs F want 
further investigations into the cause of the movement to be carried our first.
EIOP have offered to cash settle this claim to the amount of £5,400  minus the 
£1,000 excess.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found Gs reports persuasive and 
thought EIOPs suggested settlement of the claim was reasonable. Our Investigator 
also found no evidence of Mr and Mrs Fs other concerns such as agents of G 
hacking Mr Fs computer or concerns over Gs ownership. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. They dont believe the investigations undertaken were 
thorough enough and that the results were designed to fit Gs initial assumptions. 
They also question the qualifications and experience of the surveyors employed by 
EIOP. It was agreed an Ombudsman should review this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F have provided a lot of comments and information. Within this decision I wont 
be responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the 
complaint to be which means I will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the 
decision I need to make. That may also mean I dont comment on everything Mr and Mrs F 
have said but I can confirm I have read and considered everything said by both parties.
Ive looked at the policy, it provides cover for damage caused by an insured event, which 
includes subsidence. So, Ive firstly considered whether an insured peril (in this case 
subsidence) has taken place.
To establish whether subsidence is the cause of the damage. Ive considered the testimony, 
photos and evidence provided by Mr and Mrs F along with EIOPs experts reports. There 
were initially some questions about whether the damage to the front left corner of the house 
and the balcony was caused by subsidence, or thermal movement. But EIOP has accepted 
liability for this damage under the subsidence claim. 
Im satisfied the damage has been caused by subsidence which is an insurable peril under 
this policy.
The crux of this complaint seems to boil down to what has caused the subsidence. EIOP 
appointed G who are a Charted Loss Adjusters and Subsidence Engineers. G appointed an 
in-house surveyor to review the claim. The surveyor undertook a range of tests and 
monitoring to try and diagnose the cause of the subsidence. The investigations found that 
the cracks were most likely caused by clay shrinkage, which has been exacerbated by 
unusually dry and wet periods over the time in question. He recommended that helibars be 
used to reinforce the masonry and stop any further movement.
Mr and Mrs F dispute this diagnosis and have put forward several alternative explanations. 
Mr and Mrs F have questioned the surveyors qualifications, experience and his reasons for 
coming to these findings.EIOP then requested a senior surveyor review the initial findings. The outcome of this review 
was that he agreed with the original surveyors conclusions and recommended the same 
repairs to stop future movement.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence Mr F has provided in support of his arguments. Mr 
F clearly feels very strongly about the quality of the investigations and I appreciate the time 
and effort he has put into researching other explanations. I also understand that Mr and Mrs 
F want a definitive answer for what has caused the movement.
However, having reviewed all the evidence available to me. I think EIOPs conclusions are 
fair and reasonable in this case. It is not always possible to pinpoint with 100% certainty the 
cause of subsidence. But the evidence supports that it is most likely caused by seasonal 
clay shrinkage.
It is up to EIOP who they appoint to manage the claim. I am satisfied that G and their 
surveyors have the relevant qualifications and experience to investigate this matter and I find 
their reports credible.
Because Mr and Mrs F have refused to accept Gs findings, EIOP have been unable to carry 
out the recommended work to repair the property. So, EIOP has decided to cash settle this 
claim. They have offered Mr and Mrs F £5,400 (minus the £1,000 excess) to get the work 
completed.
It is up to an insurer to decide how to settle a claim, in this case as theyve been unable to 
indemnify Mr and Mrs F by undertaking the remedial work required it is reasonable that 
EIOP should be able to settle the claim at what it wouldve cost them to do the work. 
Ive reviewed the scope of work recommended by G and Im satisfied it is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive seen nothing to show that Mr and Mrs F would not be able to get the work completed for 
this cost. 
Im satisfied EIOPs settlement on this claim is fair and wont be instructing them to do 
anything further. However, if Mr and Mrs F do provide evidence that more work is needed 
then EIOP would need to consider this in the first instance.
Ive then gone on to consider Mr and Mrs Fs concerns that an employee from G or EIOP 
attempted to hack Mr Fs computer. But Ive seen no evidence to support this allegation, so 
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 May 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman