DRN-3709822
The complaint
Mr C complains that his home insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
handled his claim unfairly and provided poor quality and rude customer service. 
What happened
Mr C discovered a leak from his roof into his house. He contacted RSA about roof damage 
on 13 December 2021 and again on 17 December for assistance under his home 
emergency cover. Mr C was unhappy that he had to wait until 19 December for its roofers to 
attend as there was water coming into his house. 
RSA told Mr C that the roofers found the air vent tile on his roof to be in poor condition and 
needing replacement and that the roof is covered in moss causing water to flow back 
through the air vent. RSA declined Mr Cs claim under the home emergency cover. Mr C 
complained about this and the lack of a temporary repair and said the roofer, and 
subsequently a call handler was rude to him.  
Mr C claimed for the roof damage under his building insurance and RSA sent a surveyor to 
inspect on 22 December 2021. The surveyor reported and RSA declined the claim as there 
was no storm-related damage and no storm at the time. The surveyor said some flashing 
had come away at the front of the house with loose areas at the back of the roof. He said the 
damage was due to wear and tear over time and the repairs were a maintenance issue. 
 
Mr C said RSA unfairly declined his claim and its staff acted unprofessionally, which upset 
him. He said the surveyor offered different advice than the roofers and he had no confidence 
in him. He said RSAs letters were dated a long time before delivery and werent signed.   
RSA said there was no peril under the policy that would cover the damage and it wasnt due 
to a one-off event required for a claim to succeed. It said Mr C didnt hold accidental damage 
cover and the policy excludes damage from anything that happens gradually. RSA said its 
agents hadnt been rude to Mr C, but offered £25 for any distress or inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said RSA had applied the 
terms of the policy correctly to Mr Cs claim and hadnt caused unavoidable delays or been 
rude to him. The investigator recommended Mr C obtain an expert report about the cause of 
damage to his roof. Mr C said he wouldnt do so. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigator saying many of his complaint points hadnt been 
addressed. These appear to concern the mis-selling of the policy by another business due to 
lack of accidental damage cover and customer service issues such as being left hanging on 
the phone and not calling him back. This complaint will be considered separately against the 
relevant business.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at RSAs decisions and handling of Mr Cs claim to see if it has acted in 
accordance with the terms of the policy and to see if it has treated him fairly. 
Ive considered the issues raised by Mr C about his home emergency cover first. Mr C 
wanted a diagnosis and temporary repair of the damage to his roof. His home emergency 
cover provided a roof inspection which informed him that general deterioration through moss 
and a failing air vent tile were the causes of the water penetration. The cover costs Mr C 
about £21 per year and has limitations and exclusions. However, the policy states that the 
insurer will make a temporary repair where possible to resolve an emergency situation. 
The report from RSAs appointed roofer states that the air vent tile was in poor condition on 
the roof and required a replacement. I can understand Mr Cs upset that a temporary fix 
wasnt attempted, but because this was deemed a permanent repair RSA declined the claim. 
Mr Cs policy excludes cover for normal day-to-day household maintenance and for 
anything happening gradually such as wear and tear. I think RSAs decision was based on a 
fair assessment of the damage to the air vent and the need for it to be replaced, and is 
supported by the roofers report and photos. I think RSA acted fairly in declining the claim 
and that its decision was in line with the policy terms and conditions.
 
Mr C made a storm damage claim on his buildings insurance policy to see if his roof leak
could be repaired under his policy. Its worth noting that building insurance policies cover 
policyholders for specific risks that are set out and defined within the policy. These are 
known as perils and typically include storm, fire and escape of water. For a claim to succeed 
a policyholder has to show that the damage or loss claimed falls within one of these perils. If 
the damage doesnt fall within a peril, its often because the damage is due to wear and tear 
or a gradually operating cause. In common with all building insurance policies these causes 
are excluded by Mr Cs policy and in this way, insurers distinguish between insurance for 
one-off perils and a maintenance contract. 
 
Mr Cs claim was assessed by RSA and its surveyor under the storm peril, as the peril 
nearest and most likely to be relevant to roof damage. However, Mr C hasnt said this was 
storm damage and neither RSA nor ourselves have found evidence of a storm at the 
relevant time. RSAs surveyor inspected the damage and thought it due to general wear and 
tear, which is excluded by the policy. Mr C declined to obtain his own expert report and in 
the absence of any other professional opinion about his roof claim I have to be guided by the 
available expert information. I think Mr Cs claim has been declined fairly by RSA and in 
accordance with the terms of the policy.
Mr Cs claim couldnt be considered under accidental damage peril as he didnt hold this 
cover as part of his policy.  
Ive looked at RSAs handling and responses to Mr Cs concerns. The roof inspection could 
ideally have been sooner, but a shortage of roofers was explained to Mr C and I dont think 
given the time of year the delay was unreasonable. I have listened to calls with Mr C but 
havent found anywhere RSAs staff or agents were rude to him. I havent considered the 
customer service Mr C received from the business that sold and administered his policy. 
Mr C thought the roofer was rude and I can understand there would have been some tension 
during the visit when Mr C discovered there would be no temporary repair, but I havent 
anything to show the roofer was rude to him. RSA said it didnt receive Mr Cs letter of 30 
January 2022 and I havent seen any reference to this within its business records. I was sorry to learn about the difficulties Mr C faced in dealing with his roof problem and that 
he was hurt and shocked by the customer experience he received. At the risk of causing him 
further distress, I havent found that his customer experience was different from what we 
would generally expect in similar circumstances from an insurer. RSA has agreed to pay Mr 
C £25 for his inconvenience and I think this is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman