DRN-4415979
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the service HSBC UK Plc trading as first direct (FD) has 
provided when he asked it to make a reoccurring transaction.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional findings on 8 September 2023 which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've taken into account Mr Ms very detailed submissions about what happened at the time. I 
hope he doesn't take it as a discourtesy that I don't reply to every point he has made. The 
purpose of my decision is to explain my findings on the issues I consider key in the 
complaint.
It is not in dispute that FD made an error when it placed a block on all payments made to the 
retailer concerned. As Mr M had requested a specific re-occurring payment to be blocked 
and was assured this wouldnt impact other payments. And when asked to remove the block 
he was incorrectly advised that it had been removed. So, what is left to consider here, is how 
quickly FD rectified the error when Mr M notified it that other payments to the same retailer 
had been blocked and the impact this had on him.
I can see that Mr M originally asked FD to unblock the payments on 24 April 2023 via mobile 
chat services. However, after reviewing the contact notes I am aware that Mr M was told he 
couldnt dispute transactions via mobile chat services but could either contact its disputes 
team via phone, text relay or via secure message using the online app. I note Mr M was 
previously advised this when he raised a complaint earlier in the year. Mr M confirmed he 
was unable to call as he was abroad and couldnt use text relay due to his network provider. 
But he still had the option to use the secure message service via the online app.
On 25 April 2023 Mr M contacted FD again via mobile chat services, and again was told the 
issue needed to be referred to disputes and couldnt be resolved via mobile chat services. 
From the system notes provided I can see the advisor offered to arrange for someone to 
contact Mr M (as she understood he was abroad) but Mr M said he couldnt take the call.
However, I do note that Mr M did end up contacting the disputes team that day and one of 
the advisors from FD confirmed she would email him when the block had been removed. I 
can see an email was sent to Mr M at 10.30am that day advising the block had been 
removed. Mr M responded stating it was too late as his potential new employer had 
withdrawn the offer.
I understand this was a difficult situation for Mr M and after listening to his calls, I accept he 
was distressed and worried about his employment. That said, I also have to consider how Mr 
M mitigated his own losses. There is no doubt that FD made an error, and this error 
impacted Mr M. But Mr M was made aware multiple times on 24 April 2023 that the mobile 
chat services couldnt resolve this issue and was provided with alternative options (including 
secure messaging via the app) for Mr M to contact the disputes team. I also note when Mr M 
called and spoke to the advisor, he was offered multiple times to be transferred to the 
disputes team as she explained she was unable to assist with removing the block. This 
specific call lasted 15 minutes and if Mr M had agreed to be transferred to the team which 
were able to assist him it could have been resolved. As such, I have to take into 
consideration, if Mr M had called the disputes team sooner, allowed the advisor to transfer 
him to disputes or contacted them via the secure messaging service in the online app, he 
could have had the block removed sooner.
However, I have also considered, even though Mr M had been notified that the block had 
been removed (on 25 April 2023 via email), the block hadnt been removed. Although, Mr M 
had already confirmed at that point the potential new employer had withdrawn the offer, this 
was another error made by FD, which would have compounded the distress Mr M was 
already experiencing. And while I dont dispute what Mr M has said, he hasnt provided 
evidence to demonstrate he was offered the role or that the role was withdrawn based on the 
error that FD made. As such, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold it 
accountable for Mr Ms potential employment offer being withdrawn.
I agree that FD has made service errors which have impacted Mr M in several ways. He told 
us he felt distressed and inconvenienced in having to deal with the issues. It is important to 
note that raising any complaint does cause some degree of inconvenience and that isn't 
something we'd ordinarily say warrants compensation. However, FD has accepted it made 
mistakes and offered Mr M £75 compensation. I dont think this is fair. I say this because, 
knowing the distress Mr M was already experiencing, FD again made a further error, which 
would have compounded the degree of distress he was experiencing, and the matter wasnt 
resolved until five days later. And while I dont think it was foreseeable that this error would 
have resulted in Mr Ms potential employer withdrawing a job offer, taking into consideration 
what Mr M could reasonably have done to mitigate his own losses, I do think an increase in 
compensation is warranted.
So, FD should pay Mr M £150 and I am satisfied for the reasons outlined above that this 
compensates Mr M for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of FDs 
error.
My provisional finding is that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should pay Mr M £150 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
FD responded to my provisional decision and said that is agreed to it but purely as a gesture 
of goodwill and with no admission of liability.
Mr M responded to the provisional decision and in summary said the following:
He felt £150 was unacceptable especially considering the mental anguish he 
experienced.
He couldnt provide evidence of the employment contract as the offer was only made 
verbally. However, he asked why we hadnt considered the contract from his current 
employer showing his reduction in salary.
He was unhappy that I suggested he could have sent a secure message via the app 
as he says users are unable to send secure messages via the app.
He also stated that just because he hadnt called FD he still contacted them via 
mobile chat, so he had still made contact.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After considering the comments made by both parties my decision remains the same as I 
outlined in my provisional findings. But I will answer Mr Ms further points he has raised.
I am sorry Mr M feels £150 isnt enough to compensate him for the mental anguish he has 
experienced. However, I have provided my reasons in my provisional findings as to why I 
believe this is fair and reasonable, taking into account our approach to making awards and 
the fact I feel Mr M could have mitigated his own losses. Therefore, the decision remains the 
same in regards to this.
As I said in my provisional findings, Mr M hasnt provided evidence to demonstrate he was 
offered the role or that the role was withdrawn based on the error that FD made. While there 
may not be evidence of a contract (based on Mr M being offered the position verbally) I think 
on balance of probabilities there would be some evidence Mr M could have provided, such 
as correspondence in the lead up to an interview, or confirmation an interview/meeting had 
been arranged, arranging a time to call, or even correspondence to show why the offer had 
been revoked. And considering how passionate Mr M was about the error FD made, it 
seems reasonable to assume this was communicated to the potential employer. And if the 
employer confirmed it was revoking the offer purely based on FDs error, I think it is 
foreseeable Mr M would have been unhappy and would have planned to pursue the matter 
with FD (as he did) as such, he could also have asked for this to be confirmed formally by 
the employer to assist him pursuing the issue further.
In any event this doesnt retract from the fact FD made an error and should compensate Mr 
M for that, I just dont think its reasonable to say (without supporting or persuasive evidence) 
this error was the sole reason a potential employment offer was revoked. I understand Mr M 
would like me to consider his new employment contract and the reduction in his salary. But I 
think this is irrelevant. It doesnt prove Mr M was offered a role with a higher salary and there 
may be many reasons why Mr M accepted a position with a lower salary then what he may 
have been on previously. As such, it wouldnt assist me in making a decision on whether FD 
made an error and if it has done enough to put it right.
Mr M says you cant send a secure message via the app. FD says he can send a secure 
message via the app if he logs it as a complaint. Its unclear from the evidence provided if Mr 
M could log the complaint via secure message. However, I am satisfied from the evidence 
provided that there were alternative options presented to Mr M in order to assist him. As 
mentioned in my provisional findings it was made clear to Mr M on several occasions the 
complaint couldnt be resolved via mobile chat. So, while he had made contact, he was 
aware it couldnt be resolved that way. I also felt Mr M could have mitigated his own losses if 
he had called the disputes team sooner. On one specific call (mentioned in my provisional 
findings) Mr M refused to allow the manager to put him through to the disputes team. The 
call lasted 15 minutes and if Mr M had agreed to be transferred to the team it could have 
been resolved sooner.
For the reasons I have explained above, my decision remains the same.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should pay Mr M £150 and I am satisfied for the 
reasons outlined above that this compensates Mr M for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of FDs error.My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct should pay Mr M £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman