DRN-3296617
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, allowed funds to be 
removed from his account that he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr F discovered a number of transactions, to the same merchant, that were being made on 
his account that he didnt recognise. He contacted Virgin to dispute these as he said they 
werent authorised.
As a gesture of goodwill, Virgin refunded four of the disputed payments and raised a 
chargeback claim against the merchant for one of the payments. This payment was refunded 
by the merchant and so Virgin re-debited Mr Fs account to reflect this.
Mr F remained unhappy as it was later discovered that the payments had been debiting his 
account for a considerable time. This meant that a total of £225 in payments had been made 
to the merchant, and Mr F wanted all of these refunded as he said hed not authorised them.
Virgin looked into Mr Fs claim but decided not to refund the remaining transactions. It 
pointed out that information had been received from the merchant which confirmed that the 
payments were authorised by Mr F as part of a legitimate payment from a well-known 
retailer. It directed Mr F to approach the merchant directly to dispute the payments and seek 
a refund.
Mr F remained unhappy with the outcome of his claim, so he brought his complaint to our 
service. 
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but concluded that Virgin 
could have done more to help Mr F dispute the payments. He recommended that Virgin 
refund Mr F the remaining disputed transactions and pay £50 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
While Virgin didnt agree with aspects of the Investigators assessment, it decided to accept 
the recommendations and pay Mr F the outstanding transactions and compensation. But 
Mr F wasnt happy with the Investigators findings. He felt that £50 in compensation was too 
low and didnt reflect the true impact caused. Mr F thought that £5000 in compensation was 
a better reflection of the impact caused.
As Mr F disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has now been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin has now agreed to refund the payments Mr F has disputed on his account as a 
gesture of goodwill. So, its not necessary to comment on this further considering both 
parties have agreed to this element of the complaint being resolved.
Mr F is however unhappy with the level of compensation the Investigator has suggested in 
their assessment. Hes cited the following reasons for his claim that £5000 is more 
appropriate in the circumstances:
Loss of revenue and serious damage to mental and physical health
Cutting off his lifeline
Persistent stress and hours put into preparing large quantities of letters
Three visits to the bank via a taxi service that cost £60 in total
Mr Fs claim regarding loss of revenue relates to the fact that he relied upon his pension as a 
lifeline. And the disputed payments were taken from that pension causing him a loss. But 
Virgin has now agreed to refund Mr F the payments lost and therefore he no longer has 
suffered a financial loss as a result of this.
I also find it unreasonable to expect Virgin to reimburse Mr F for his taxi journeys to and from 
the bank. Mr F has been unable to evidence the journeys that took place, so I dont find that 
its fair for Virgin to reimburse consequential losses Mr F cant prove he suffered.
Furthermore, Mr F claims that the reason he was forced to attend the bank was due to a lack 
of support from the business regarding his disabilities. Mr F claims that he sent numerous 
correspondences to the bank asking for it to resolve the issue, but these were left 
unanswered. He also claims the bank insisted on dealing with the matter over the telephone 
despite him being deaf.
Having reviewed the evidence provided by both parties, I dont agree with Mr Fs claims. In a 
vast majority of the correspondences Mr F has sent to this service, he repeats on a number 
of occasions that these issues were in fact with the merchant that had taken the disputed 
payments from his account. He reiterates that he sent numerous correspondences to the 
merchant via email and letter, all of which remain unanswered. While I understand Mr Fs 
annoyance and frustration at this, it would be unreasonable to hold the bank liable for a third-
party companys poor service.
Furthermore, from the evidence Ive seen, Virgin has responded to contact from Mr F by 
letter, and this is acknowledged by the bank and Mr F in these letters. Virgin has said that 
Mr Fs first letter regarding the issue was received on 19 October 2020 disputing the 
transactions. Unfortunately, as the relevant team dealing with the claim could only access a 
limited history on the account, they only identified four payments made to merchant and 
provided a full refund of these payments as a gesture of goodwill. Virgin also allowed Mr F to 
keep a £15 refund from the merchant where the disputed transactions were made despite 
already refunding him this payment. This was a further gesture of goodwill to apologise for a 
lack of detail in their explanation of action taken on the account. 
Having said that, considering the disputed payments went back to the beginning of where 
the relevant team could access, I think they could have done more to check these payments 
didnt go back further. This likely would have caused less of an exchange of correspondence 
and not prolonged the process, which has clearly caused Mr F some distress. 
I think the £50 recommended by the Investigator is reasonable in reflecting this 
administrative error and the impact it caused.
Mr F has asked for £5000 in compensation for the impact of Virgins error. However, this is in 
our services highest bracket of compensation and is for the most extreme impact we see. 
Even lower categories than this would expect to see significant detriment to health over prolonged periods of time, generally over a year. While I appreciate that Mr F has clearly 
suffered some impact here, I dont think it reaches the threshold for these higher categories 
of compensation.
I must also consider the fact that Mr F had access to funds within his account during the 
dispute and wasnt left in a poor financial position.  Mr F has been allowed to keep one of the 
payments that was refunded, and Virgin has agreed to pay the £50 recommended by the 
Investigator. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Virgin should now go ahead and settle the complaint as its agreed.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Virgin should, if its not already done so:
Refund Mr F the remaining disputed transactions
Pay Mr F £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman