DRN-4074489
The complaint
Mr B says Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £3,500 that Bamboo provided to
Mr B on 12 April 2022. The monthly repayments were £222.62 and the total repayable was
£5342.77.
Mr B says he should never have been given this loan. Had Bamboo done proper checks it 
would have seen gambling and high-risk spending were problems in his life. He wants all 
interest and charges to be removed from his account and he will repay the capital - he has 
taken professional help to control his spending habits.
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought Bamboo was wrong to have given
the loan.
Bamboo disagreed, it reiterated the checks it carried out and why the results supported its
lending decision. It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this meant
that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr B
undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Bamboo has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr B. It asked for details of his monthly income and his housing costs. It used
national statistics to estimate his living costs and used an independent income verification
tool to check his declared income. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit
history and his existing credit commitments. 
Based on these checks Bamboo concluded Mr B would be able to sustainably repay this 
loan and so thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term and value of the loan, and the value 
of the monthly repayments relative to Mr Bs declared income. But based on the information 
it gathered, I think Bamboo ought to have realised there was a risk the loan would not be 
sustainably affordable for Mr B. Ill explain why.
Mr B was already spending over 33% of his declared income on his existing credit
commitments. By giving this loan Bamboo was increasing the amount of his income he
would need to spend on his monthly repayments to nearly 40%. At this level I think it ought 
to have been concerned he would likely struggle to sustainably repay the loan over its term. 
It could see from his credit check that even before giving this loan he had debt of around 
£15,000; he had five credit cards that were all close to their limits; and he was overdrawn on 
his current account. There was also some historic data  a County Court Judgement and 
use of payday loans - that suggested Mr Bs had struggled with his finances historically. So 
in this context, I dont think it was fair to extend Mr Bs credit commitments such that they 
were almost 40% of his income  a level at which he was likely to have financial difficulties 
going forward.
It seems Bamboo focused heavily on the pounds and pence affordability of the loan, but tomeet its regulatory obligations it was also required to check that Mr B would be able to
repay the loan without suffering adverse financial consequences, or borrowing to repay. I am
not satisfied it did this. Bamboo argues Mr B settled the loan early after nine months and so 
there is no evidence of harm but it does not know how he was able to do this so this does 
not change my conclusion. 
It follows I think Bamboo was wrong to lend to Mr B.
I have not seen any evidence that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonable towards Mr B in
some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him. Bamboo must put this right.
It should:
Refund all interest and charges, so add up the total amount Mr B repaid and
deduct this sum from the capital amount of the loan.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Bamboo should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account leaves a capital balance outstanding Bamboo
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the
loan once any outstanding capital has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from this interest. Bamboo should give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, must put
things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman