DRN-1624005
Complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
him.                           
Background
This complaint is about one running account credit facility and forty-two high-cost short term 
credit instalment loans that Sunny provided to Mr R from August 2014 onwards. Mr Rs last 
loan was provided in April 2019. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided 
with instalment loans 6 to 13 and 20 to 42. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed 
to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr R was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a sustainable manner at the respective times it provided instalment loan 6 and instalment loan 
20. 
I say this because at these respective stages, Mr R had an established pattern of taking 
further loans soon after repaying previous ones. Equally on some occasions Mr R was 
provided with further credit even though he had more than one loan outstanding with Sunny. 
This pattern of borrowing went on to continue over an extended number of loans. Im not 
persuaded that the loan repayments being less than a certain percentage of Mr Rs income 
or the fact that Mr R repaid these loans means that they were sustainable or that it was fair 
and reasonable for Sunny to have provided them in the first place.
Mr R had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr R paid on instalment loans 6 to 13 and 20 to 
42;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
all reference to loans 6 to 13 and 20 to 42 should be removed from Mr Rs 
credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Rs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman