DRN-3962361
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc approved a payment that was made as part 
of a scam.
What happened
Last year, Mr and Mrs M dealt with a third party who claimed to be a travel agent. The third 
party used a legitimate business details and advised Mr and Mrs M they could arrange 
return flights on their behalf for £900. Mr and Mrs M gave the third party their debit card 
details, including the security code on the back. Later, the third party asked Mr and Mrs M for 
a One Time Passcode (OTP) to complete the payment. Mr and Mrs M received an OTP from 
HSBC and forwarded it to the third party. Mr and Mrs M have explained that when they 
checked their account the transaction was showing as pending. The payment later debited 
Mr and Mrs Ms bank account.
Mr and Mrs M have explained that a short time later the third party stopped responding to 
them and didnt forward the plane tickets. Mr and Mrs M contacted HSBC and raised 
concerns theyd been the victims of fraud. HSBC applied a temporary credit of £900 and 
looked into the card payment that was taken. But after HSBC looked at what had happened 
it said Mr and Mrs M had been the victim of a scam and didnt agree to refund the payment. 
Mr and Mrs M complained and HSBC issued a final response. HSBC said the payment 
hadnt been made to a travel agent and had instead gone to a money transfer service. HSBC 
explained the funds had most likely been transferred on to an account controlled by the 
scammer. And HSBC said it couldnt reclaim the missing payment via a chargeback claim 
because it had been sent to a money transfer service. HSBC also said the payment had 
been authorised using the OTP that was sent to Mr and Mrs M. HSBC didnt agree to refund 
the payment Mr and Mrs M had made. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. They said Mr and Mrs M 
had authorised the payment by providing the OTP. The investigator didnt think the payment 
HSBC approved was suspicious or of a value that shouldve caused further checks to be 
completed before it was approved. The investigator didnt ask HSBC to take any further 
action and didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Mr and Mrs M asked to appeal and said the payment was pending when they told the third 
party to discontinue but it was still approved by HSBC. As Mr and Mrs M asked to appeal, 
their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have explained that they were taken in by a fraudster who persuaded them 
they were a travel agent. As a result, Mr and Mrs Ms debit card details, including the 
security code, were given to the third party. In addition, when an OTP was sent to Mr and 
Mrs M by HSBC they forwarded it to the third party, which authorised the payment. 
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSR) set out information concerning whether card 
holders have authorised a payment. PSR says that if a consumer provides information to 
complete the payments authentication process theyve provided their consent to it. Here, the 
transaction was processed using card information provided by Mr and Mrs M and then 
authenticated using the OTP HSBC issued. I understand the payment instruction was 
completed by the third party on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf. In my view, by giving the card details 
and OTP to complete the payment on their behalf, Mr and Mrs M provided their apparent 
authority for the third party to authorise the payment. In my view, Mr and Mrs M provided 
their consent for a payment to be taken via their debit card and HSBC acted in line with its 
instruction.
If an instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect HSBC to 
intervene and ask more about the reasons for making the payment before approving it. Ive 
considered whether the payment in question shouldve caused HSBC to intervene and ask 
further questions. Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms statements, its clear the account wasnt one 
they used regularly. But there is evidence of regular standing order transactions along with 
another larger payment Mr and Mrs M made in the months before the disputed transaction 
took place. So the account was active and being used. 
Whilst I understand £900 is a lot of money, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for HSBC 
to approve it without further checks being completed. Card payments at this level arent 
unusual. And Mr and Mrs M had sufficient funds to make the payment. Im not persuaded a 
payment of this nature was sufficiently unusual to the point where Id expect HSBC to carry 
out additional checks or provide fraud warnings. In my view, HSBC fairly approved the £900 
debit card payment, in line with the instructions it received. 
Mr and Mrs M have told us the payment was showing as pending when they checked their 
account. And Mr and Mrs M have explained that they asked the third party who had their 
card details not to proceed with the payment. But the OTP sent to Mr and Mrs M by HSBC 
was used to authorise the payment. The pending status of the payment indicated it was in 
the process of being made, having been authorised. 
Mr and Mrs M have also explained that the fraudster told them the OTP provided didnt work. 
But HSBC has provided evidence from its payment systems that shows how the payment 
was authorised. And providing a valid OTP forms part of the authorisation process. I 
understand the person making the payment mayve told Mr and Mrs M the OTP had failed. 
But Im satisfied the available information shows an OTP sent by HSBC was used to 
authorise the payment.  
When Mr and Mrs M contacted HSBC a temporary refund was applied while it investigated 
whether a chargeback claim could be made. But the refund was reversed as HSBC said it 
wasnt possible to make a successful chargeback claim. There are limited circumstances 
that allow a business to make a successful chargeback claim. In this case, the payment 
taken from Mr and Mrs Ms account was sent to a money transfer service. And the funds 
were then transferred on. As the payment was used for the intended purpose of transferring 
it on, a chargeback claim on the basis the service wasnt provided wouldnt have been likely 
to succeed. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but Im satisfied HSBCs decision not to 
take the chargeback claim forward was fair.
I understand that my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but I 
havent found grounds to tell HSBC to refund the payment in question. As Im satisfied 
HSBC dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman