DRN-1617565
 
The complaint
Mr R says National Westminster Bank plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr R took out a PPI policy in January 2002 at the same time as he applied for a mortgage. 
The sale took place on the phone. The policy provided Mr R with cover against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. He paid a monthly amount for it. When Mr R took out a further 
advance in August 2002 the benefit level of his policy was increased to also cover the 
increased repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make it clear to Mr R the PPI was optional, and Mr R had to agree to take it. 
Mr R told us he has no recollection of the PPI sale, but also that he felt pressured. There is 
no call recording or sales script available, so I cant know for certain what was discussed on 
the call, but I have looked at the available paperwork from the sale.
On the mortgage application form it asked if Mr R wanted Mortgage Repayments Protector 
and his form shows that hed replied Yes. This form was sent to him after his phone 
application. He returned it along with a signed declaration form agreeing that hed received 
information about PPI and understood it. So Im satisfied the form accurately reflects what he 
agreed to on the phone call. Also Mr R amended and added to the form in other parts, but he 
didnt change the PPI section indicating it reflected what he'd agreed to. He also signed a 
separate direct debit form for the PPI.  
Mr Rs mortgage offer set out the cost of the PPI separately, as did the offer for his further 
advance. This form also confirmed how much increased PPI cover he had selected. I have 
thought about Mr Rs comments carefully but I also have to consider how long ago it was 
and how that might impact what he recalls. I haven't found other evidence to support his 
claim that he was pressured.
So overall, I think NatWest made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr R chose to take it.NatWest didnt recommend the PPI so it didnt have to make sure it was right for Mr R. But it 
had to give clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so that he could make a 
properly informed choice.
There might have been areas in which NatWest didnt give Mr R as much information as it 
shouldve done. But I dont think better information wouldve put him off taking out the PPI.
- I say this because Mr R was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected 
by any of the main things not covered by the policy. He has confirmed his 
circumstances didnt change between the initial sale and the policy increase. 
- Mr R told us he was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay from his 
job. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 
months for each successful claim. 
He says he had around £2,500 in savings but the PPI would have allowed him to use 
any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact 
for his future needs. Mr R told us he was in receipt of a military pension, but from what 
he's said this wouldnt have covered his mortgage repayments if he wasnt working. 
He also said he had an endowment policy but that is a different type of product and 
wouldnt have helped with monthly mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. 
Mr R was borrowing a large sum of money over a long period secured against his 
home, which he then increased. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage 
payments, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr R if he was sick or lost his job.
- I dont know at what stage during the sale the cost of the PPI was first made clear to 
Mr R. But it was set out separately on his both his offer documents, and it was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Mr R. Mr R raised that his two other credit card 
PPI complaints were upheld by the bank, but I can only comment here on the individual 
merits of this case. I would add that the outcome of each complaint will vary based on a 
number of factors including, but not limited to, the time and type of sale; the credit product; 
the cost and benefits offered; and the policy terms  as well as the customers 
circumstances.  
My final decision
My decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman