DRN-1661617
complaint
Mr P complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly declined his 
pet insurance claim.
background
Mr P made a claim on his pet insurance policy after he accidentally reversed over his dogs 
leg with a golf buggy, causing it an injury. The accident took place at Mr Ps home, as he 
was leaving to take the dog for a walk using the buggy.
Red Sands declined the claim based on the following policy condition: 
-When walking your pet in an area other than a designated road, you must ensure 
that your pet remains under your control and reasonable steps must be taken to 
prevent your pet escaping onto a designated road. When nearing a road, you must 
ensure your pet is on a lead.
Red Sands said as the dog wasnt under control, not all reasonable measures had been 
taken to ensure she couldnt escape onto a designated road. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint. She didnt think that Red Sands could 
fairly rely on the policy condition to decline the claim. Because Red Sands disagreed, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, Ive reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr Ps vet fees are covered, subject to policy limits, in the event his dog has an accident. Its 
not disputed that what happened was an accident. So, for Red Sands to decline the claim, it 
needs to show that a policy exclusion or condition applies. Therefore, I have carefully 
considered the policy condition it relied on to decline the claim.
The policy condition relates to when a pet is being walked. Its arguable whether the walk 
had started given the incident happened on Mr Ps drive. Nonetheless, given the accident 
involved the golf buggy being used for the walk, I accept the walk was underway.
There are three parts to the policy condition. When walking a pet in an area other than a 
designated road:
- the pet must remain under the owners control;
- reasonable steps must be taken to prevent the pet escaping on to a designated road; 
and
- when nearing a road, the pet must be kept on a lead
The dog didnt escape on to a designated road and nor were they nearing a road. As such, 
only the first point applies to the circumstances of this claim. So, the question here is 
whether Mr P had his dog under his control when the accident occurred.
Simply because an accident occurred, doesnt lead me to conclude that Mr Ps dog wasnt 
under his control. If that assumption is taken, no accident during a walk would ever be 
covered.
I havent seen or been told anything that persuades me it was the dogs behaviour or action 
that led to the accident. On the other hand, Mr P has explained that his dog is well trained, 
and they use the golf buggy regularly for walks. Hes also explained the visibility was poor 
that day due to the weather. Having considered his testimony, which has been consistent 
throughout, on balance, Im more persuaded the accident happened due to Mr Ps 
misjudgement, than the dog not being under his control.
I can understand Red Sands reluctance to cover an accident involving a vehicle being used 
to walk the pet in question. However, in my view, if it wishes to exclude such incidents from 
being covered  bearing in mind some owners are reliant on mobility vehicles  its policy 
terms and accompanying literature should make that clear.
Im not persuaded Red Sands fairly declined Mr Ps claim. Therefore, it now needs to settle 
the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits. If Mr P has already paid the vet 
bills, Red Sands needs to pay interest at 8% simple per year on the claim settlement, from 
the date he paid the amount until the date it settles the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.  
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
-settle the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and limits; and 
-if Mr P has already paid the vet bills, it should pay him interesti at 8% simple per year 
on the settlement, from the date he paid the amount until the date the claim is settled
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman
iIf Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing the amount deducted, if requested, so he can reclaim it 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.