DRN-3329497
The complaint
Mr F has complained on behalf of R that his customers received a warning message that 
account details did not match when they tried to make online payments to Rs bank 
account with The Co-operative Bank Plc. Hes also complained that when he tried to call 
Co-op he had to wait a long time to get through. And that their live chat function wasnt 
working.
What happened
Mr F was told by some of Rs customers that when they attempted to make an online 
payment to Rs account they were getting a warning message that the account details did 
not match. Hed never had a problem with this before, so he tried to telephone Co-op 
about it. He was on hold each time he tried and gave up after 15 minutes. He tried to use 
the online chat function, but the set questions and answers didnt cover his problem and 
the live chat wasnt working. Mr F couldnt find an email address or online form other than 
for making a complaint. So, he complained to Co-op about all of these issues.
Co-op issued a final response to Mr F, but he didnt receive this until much later. They 
said theyd introduced the name check as a new security feature, but not all banks had 
done so and they explained this could cause a warning message. But they didnt think 
anything theyd done wrong was causing a problem. They apologised for the wait times 
and said they were recruiting new staff. They also apologised for Mr F not being able to 
use the chat function.
Mr F complained to us on behalf of R and one of our investigators considered his 
complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. This was because he didnt think Co-op 
had done anything wrong in introducing an extra security feature for online payments and 
it was this that was causing the error messages for Rs customers. He said that Co-op 
had explained what happened. He also said that, whilst the wait times on the phone 
werent ideal, they were acceptable in the circumstances. And he felt the fact Co-op were 
taking positive action to address this meant theyd done enough.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
explained that he didnt agree a 15 minute wait to get through on the phone was 
reasonable. He also said that Rs customers didnt have a problem previously and the fact 
they cant pay
money because of a new system introduced by Co-op is not acceptable.
Having reviewed Rs complaint, I asked our investigator to check some things with Co-
op. He established that the live chat function still appeared on Co-ops website when Mr 
F was trying to contact them, even though it wasnt working. He also managed to get 
Co-op to contact their system provider and make an amendment that will now allow Rs 
customer to use one of four name options when making payments online, none of which 
will produce a warning message.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February, in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
I agree with Mr F that a wait time of 15 minutes or more to get through to a bank on 
several occasions in a short period of time is an unacceptable level of customer service. I 
appreciate Co-op were short staffed and were trying to address the issue, but this doesnt 
alter the fact it was poor customer service. This clearly caused R inconvenience. This was 
made worse by the fact the live chat function wasnt working, but was still showing as an 
option. And by the fact there was no other method of contact available for general 
enquiries. And I think the inconvenience means R should receive some compensation. I 
think £100 is appropriate.
I think it was reasonable for Co-op to introduce a new security feature whereby the 
account details entered by the payee need to match those held on Co-ops system, 
otherwise one of three warning messages come up. This is a feature that most major 
banks have introduced in an effort to prevent people and businesses falling foul of fraud 
and scams. So, I think it is a good thing. The system would not have prevented Rs 
customers making payments, but it may have made them concerned about making them 
due to the message they received.
The two messages most likely to cause concern were one that said the account details 
dont match and one that said the account details couldnt be checked. The latter would 
only have come up if the payees bank had not started using the new security system, so 
this would not have been Co-ops fault. The other message would have come up if the 
customer used anything other than the actual name shown on Rs bank statements. 
However, provided the customer was satisfied they had the right sort code and account 
number, they could still make the payment safe in the knowledge it would go to the right 
account.
It seems the name on Rs invoice didnt match the details on their bank statement, so this 
would have caused the second warning message Ive mentioned above. However, as Ive 
said, it did not stop Rs customers making payments safely provided they made sure the 
account number and sort code were correct. Co-op have assured us the use of this name 
should not cause an issue now. And there are three other names that will also now not 
cause an issue. Our investigator will let Mr F know the four names concerned, so that he 
can let Rs customers know.
In the circumstances, whilst I appreciate the new system caused Mr F some frustration 
due to queries from his customers, I dont think Co-op did anything wrong in introducing it 
or were responsible for any difficulties Rs customers may have had with their own banks. 
And I think the fact Co-op have now confirmed that four variations of Rs names will now 
not result in a warning message is helpful. This means I dont think compensation for any 
issues R has had as a result of the introduction of this system is appropriate.
I gave both parties until 1 March 2022 to provide more comments and evidence. Both 
parties have now provided further comments. 
Co-op have said the webchat wasnt avilable to business customers and the webchat 
symbol was never green and saying live chat was available on the business page. 
Theyve also said that their call centre staff are office based, so if staff had Covid or had to 
isolate, this reduced the number of staff available to take calls. And they dont think a 15 
minute wait time was unacceptable, given the circumstances at the time. 
Mr F has said on behalf of R that he accepts my conclusions. Hes added that he thinks it 
is unacceptable for Co-op not to have some alternative means of contacting the customer 
service department for business customers. And he has queried why the webchat isnt 
avialable to business customers and why Co-op cant provide an email address for queries from them.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Co-ops further comments and I appreciate the webchat wasnt available to 
business customers and was never live on the business page. But this doesnt alter my view 
that this represents poor customer service. This is because business customers wouldnt 
necessarily know this and they also had no other method of written contact, such as email. 
This left Mr F with no other option but to call and wait at least 15 minutes. And, whilst I 
appreciate the circumstances were unusual because of the pandemic, by the point Mr F was 
trying to contact Co-op it seems it was the summer of 2021, by which time most businesses 
had adjusted and had contingency plans in place. So  it remains my view that the 
combination of the lack of any option for written queries and the wait times when calling 
meant that Co-op provided an unacceptable level of customer service and caused R 
unnecessary inconvenience.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, it remains my view that the 
inconvenience R experienced warrants a compensation payment of £100. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Rs complaint about Co-operative Bank Plc and award R 
£100 in compensation for inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman