DRN-2330271
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs K in 2008. The policy was 
taken out to protect their monthly mortgage repayments if Mr and Mrs K couldnt work 
through illness or disability. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Santander hadnt provided 
Mr and Mrs K with all the information it shouldve done. In particular, it hadnt made them 
aware that the policy offered only limited benefit in their particular circumstances given what 
Mr and Mrs K told us about existing and ongoing health conditions that had affected Mrs K 
when theyd taken out the policy.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
The policy provided cover for up to 12 months in the event of accident or sickness. 
Santander had to make sure that it gave Mr and Mrs K clear enough information so they 
were able to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for them. And if this didn't 
happen, I have to think about whether this made any overall difference to Mr and Mrs Ks 
decision to buy the accident and sickness cover..
I dont think Santander did enough to point out to Mr and Mrs K a significant feature of the 
policy  specifically, the impact Mrs Ks health problems would have on the cover she would 
get under the policy.  
Under the policy terms, any condition which Mrs K knew about at the start date wasnt 
covered - unless shed been continuously insured under the accident or sickness cover for 
12 months so long as she was attending work at the start of the claim.
Mrs Ks health had been affected by some serious conditions which shed known about for 
many years before she took out this PPI. 
In particular, Mrs K told us that one of the conditions had led to her being hospitalised a 
couple of times. She told us that she regularly saw her doctor about the condition and relied 
on prescribed medication to help keep the symptoms under control.
Mr and Mrs K didnt take out any other cover under the policy  they bought only sickness 
cover. And Mrs K was the main beneficiary under the policy  Mr and Mrs K split the policy 
benefits 70% in favour of Mrs K. 
So I think if Mr and Mrs K had been aware that they wouldnt have been able to claim for any 
absence related to Mrs Ks existing health problems right from the start of the policy they 
wouldnt have thought PPI provided them with good value. 
And I think Mr and Mrs K have lost out as a result of Santanders failings in this case, 
because I dont think theyd have taken out the policy if theyd been given enough clear 
information. 
Ive taken into account that Santander feels the medical evidence Mrs K has provided cant 
be relied on as its undated and lacks detail.
And Im aware that Mrs K wouldve been covered for absence from work resulting from any 
condition or sickness that wasnt pre-existing when she signed up for the PPI. 
And Mr K couldve claimed on the policy. 
But I dont think its fair to expect Mrs K to be able to provide the level of detail about her 
condition that Santander is now asking for. I dont see any reason to doubt what shes 
consistently told us about her condition  and the evidence provided supports what shes 
said about her health.  
I dont think Mrs K couldve been confident at the time that shed be unlikely to take time off 
work again as a result of her medical condition. 
So, if Santander had given Mr and Mrs K clear enough information about the policy, I think it 
wouldve been apparent that there was a risk her condition could impact on Mrs K being able 
to claim on the policy in all the circumstances they mightve expected  and Mr and Mrs K 
probably wouldnt have wanted to pay for this limited cover. 
For these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for me to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs K in the position they wouldve been had they not taken 
out the policy. 
So, Santander should: 
Pay Mr and Mrs K the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.If Mr and Mrs K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs K as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman