DRN-3302529
The complaint
Mr W complains that a suite of furniture he bought from a retailer, D, was not of satisfactory 
quality. Because the purchase of the furniture was financed with credit provided by Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc, Mr W says that it is liable to him in the same way as D.
 What happened
In December 2019 Mr W bought a suite of furniture from D. It comprised two reclining sofas 
and a footstool and cost just over £2,500. At the same time, he took out a four-year interest 
free loan with Hitachi Capital  arranged by D  to pay for the furniture.
In or around October 2020 Mr W complained to Hitachi Capital about the sofas. He said that 
they did not provide the level of lumbar support he needed and had been promised. D had 
carried out an inspection but had not found anything wrong with the sofas  other than a very 
minor issue with loose threads which did not affect their overall quality.
When Mr W referred the matter to this service, one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He was not persuaded that the sofas were not of satisfactory quality but noted 
that no independent report into their quality had been provided.
Mr W did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
In the meantime, he provided a copy of a very recent report which had been commissioned 
through The Furniture and Home Improvement Ombudsman. That report identified some 
minor issues with the alignment of the seats and back. The inspector indicated that they 
could be resolved by a competent technician in about two hours.
The investigator asked Mr W for more information about the complaint he had made about D 
to the furniture ombudsman. He explained that the ombudsman had found faults and a repair 
had been offered. That would not however resolve his complaint about the loan agreement. 
Mr W mentioned as well that the furniture came with a 10-year guarantee.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision. I set out below my main 
findings:
The loan agreement was taken out to pay for the furniture under arrangements between D 
and Hitachi Capital. Because of that, the effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 is that, if Mr W has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against D, he 
has a like claim against Hitachi Capital.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Mr Ws contract with D was to be read as including 
a term that the suite would be of satisfactory quality. So, if it was not of satisfactory 
quality, he could  because of section 75  make a claim against Hitachi Capital.
Mr Ws complaint about Hitachi Capital is that it did not respond fairly to his claim that it 
was responsible for Ds alleged breach of contract.
At the same time, Mr Ws complaint to the furniture ombudsman is that D did not respond 
fairly to his complaint that it was itself in breach of contract. In both cases, the breach that 
Mr W alleges is that the furniture was not of satisfactory quality.
In my view, Mr Ws complaint to this service is inextricably linked to the complaint he has 
made about D to the furniture ombudsman. Both complaints arise from his view that the 
furniture was not of satisfactory quality. Mr W has not raised any complaint which is only 
about the loan agreement or only about the actions of Hitachi Capital.
Since the underlying complaint here is about the furniture itself and that complaint is being 
dealt with by the furniture ombudsman, I do not believe that I can fairly uphold Mr Ws 
complaint about Hitachi Capital. D is a large and well-established retailer, and I have no 
reason to think that it is not able to resolve Mr Ws complaint fairly. If necessary, the 
furniture ombudsman is in a position to ensure that happens.
I believe too that the furniture ombudsman is likely to be in a better position than I am to 
assess the quality of the furniture  which is of course at the heart of both complaints. 
Indeed, the only independent evidence I have on that issue is the report commissioned 
through the furniture ombudsman.
I did not think therefore that I could properly require Hitachi Capital to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W did not accept my provisional decision. He stressed that he did not think that D had 
acted fairly and that he did not agree with the outcome of the inspection carried out on 
behalf of the furniture ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were two main reasons why I indicated in my provisional decision that I did not feel I 
could uphold Mr Ws complaint. Those reasons are connected. The independent report 
prepared for the furniture ombudsman did not support Mr Ws assertion of damage to the 
sofas; it identified some relatively minor issues which can be easily repaired. In addition, I 
did not think that it would be fair to uphold a complaint against Hitachi Capital which was 
effectively the same complaint that Mr W had brought against D and which was being 
considered by the furniture ombudsman. 
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr W focused to a large extent on the actions of 
D. But his complaint about D is being considered by a different ombudsman scheme  The 
Furniture and Home Improvement Ombudsman. It does not appear from Mr Ws comments 
that he is happy with that schemes approach to his complaint about D. In my view however 
that, if anything, reinforces my provisional conclusions. At best, Mr W is inviting me to reach 
conclusions which might well be inconsistent with the view of the furniture ombudsman. 
Arguably though, he is asking me to consider a parallel complaint about D alongside the 
complaint which the furniture ombudsman is considering. I do not believe that is appropriate.     
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I do not require 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do anything more to resolve Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 March 2022. Mike Ingram
Ombudsman