DRN-2419538
The complaint
Ms H complains about problems with two ISAs she holds with Aldermore Bank Plc. Her
complaint is about changes to the interest rate on her 30-day notice ISA, and the closure of 
her one-year fixed term ISA to new funds.
What happened
Ms H has three accounts with Aldermore which are mentioned in this complaint. She has a
30-day notice ISA, a help to buy ISA, and a one-year fixed term ISA. Ms H said that
Aldermore was reducing the interest rate on her 30-day notice account. She said it relied on
other reasons in her contract to do this, despite FCA guidance FG 18/7 paragraph 52,
which said that its generally less likely to be valid to vary terms for any other reason in a
contract of determinate duration. So Ms H said that the reduction in interest was unfair.
Ms H also said that on 28 June 2020, Aldermore removed the one-year fixed term ISA
account from its online move money dropdown, with no notice. Shed previously been able
to use that facility to pay money into this account. Ms H said this was a change to her terms.
She thought making this change without notice breached BCOBS 4.1.2 paragraph 3, which
requires notice.
Ms H wanted Aldermore to allow the transfer of her 30-day notice ISA into a one-year fixed
term account to mitigate interest loss, or alternatively for us to order that the interest rate
cant reduce from 0.85%.
Aldermore said Ms H had complained when it charged a penalty of 14p when she tried to
transfer money from her 30-day notice ISA into her help to buy ISA. Aldermore said it had
upheld that complaint, corrected the interest rate penalty and paid £25 compensation.
Aldermore said Ms H then complained about recent interest rate changes on her 30-day
notice ISA.
Aldermore said Ms H had applied for a one-year fixed rate cash ISA on 12 April. It told us
that theres a 14 day funding window set out in the terms and conditions, for paying money
into the account. The interest rate is fixed after that period.
Aldermore said it tells customers they can pay into this ISA in the first 14 days. But it also
has a back-office system which allows it to accept additional deposits for up to 75 days after 
application. Thats there to help customers who take longer to release their money in 
accounts held elsewhere. Although Aldermore doesnt tell customers about this, Ms H had 
worked out that she could transfer money in the 30-day notice ISA she already held, at a
lower interest rate, into the one-year fixed rate ISA at the higher interest rate.
Aldermore said that when it reduced the inters rate on the 30 day notice account, it wouldnt
let Ms H keep moving her money into the one-year fixed rate ISA. Aldermore said that the
move money option on online banking only allowed Ms H to move money into her fixed
term ISA during its funding window. The additional payments shed already made were
outside of its terms and conditions, but Aldermore said this hadnt disadvantaged her, and it
didnt suggest it was going to ask her to move this money back.
Aldermore said it had given the required notice of the change in interest rates, and it wasnt 
obliged to allow customers to keep paying into a fixed rate account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Aldermores
summary information for the 30-day notice account makes clear that the interest rate is
variable. And the terms and conditions of the account confirm this too. Aldermore notified Ms
H of the change before it happened. Broadly speaking, its up to Aldermore how much
interest it pays on its accounts.
Our investigator also said that Aldermore didnt have to tell Ms H it was going to remove the
move money option from her one-year fixed cash ISA. That was removed when the funding
period ends, and Ms H can no longer pay into this account. Our investigator said the 14-day
funding period was also explained in Aldermores summary information for this account. He
didnt think this was a change to Ms Hs terms and conditions. So Aldermore didnt have to
give notice of this.
Ms H didnt agree. She set out her complaint in more detail.
Ms H said the notice of interest rate change which shed received in late May 2020, didnt 
cite a reason for that change which was set out in her 2019 contract terms. Those terms had 
been updated in 2020, but she said that was done without any notice. I understand Ms H 
thinks that variation of contract terms was invalid, because there was no notice.
Ms H said if the changes to her interest rates made in summer 2020 were made under the
old 2019 terms, and specifically for another valid reason, then FCA guidance suggested
this would be unfair. And if they were made under the 2020 terms, the interest rate changes
werent made for the reasons allowed in those terms. Ms H said that the Bank of England
base rate had only changed once, but her account rates had changed twice. So the Bank of
England change couldnt have been the reason for the second interest rate change.
Ms H said Aldermore had allowed her to pay money into her fixed term ISA well outside of
the 14 days funding window. Having been allowed to do this, Ms H thought Aldermore
shouldve told her before it changed this position.
Ms H said she had to notify Aldermore that an interest penalty had been wrongly charged.
And she was making the same sort of transfer in future, so she wanted to know why this
mistake happened, and if it was likely to happen again. And she wanted to know if £25
compensation was enough for that.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said Aldermore is allowed to change the interest
rate on her account. And he wouldnt expect Aldermore to tell her before it removed the
facility to move money into her one-year fixed term ISA. He also commented on one of the
two interest penalties shed mentioned on her account, although she hadnt included that in
her complaint to us. He didnt comment on the more recent penalty, because Aldermore
hadnt been asked about that yet.
Ms H wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so it was passed to me for a final
decision.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Ms H says that Aldermore replaced her 2019 terms and conditions with new terms 
and conditions in April 2020. Ms H thinks that Aldermore relied on the old terms when 
it changed her interest rate, and specifically, that it changed the interest rate for 
another valid reason.
The 2019 terms do allow Aldermore to change interest rates on a notice cash ISA 
for another valid reason but those terms also refer to changes due to changes in 
the Bank of England base rate. The 2020 terms allow changes due to changes in the 
Bank of England base rate, and no longer include the catch-all for another valid 
reason
I note that Ms Hs account allows for a change of terms which are to Ms Hs 
advantage at any time. I think narrowing the basis on which Ms Hs interest rate can 
be changed, and removing a wider provision which Ms H says has been questioned 
for fairness by the FCA, is a change to Ms Hs advantage. So I dont think Aldermore 
had to give notice of this change to Ms H.
Ms H hasnt argued that any other changes to the 2019 terms present in the new 
2020 terms are to her detriment. Even if she had argued this, I wouldnt be able to 
consider it here, as I cant see that this general point has been drawn to Aldermores 
attention yet. (I have been able to consider the narrow point about changes to 
interest rates here because, although Im not sure this was clear to Aldermore at the 
time, this does appear to me to have been part of Ms Hs original complaint.)
Ms H said that Aldermore had breached FCA guidance FG18 / 7: Fairness of 
variation terms in financial services consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015. The paragraph Ms H refers to covers changes to contracts of determinate 
duration. But I dont think Ms Hs contract with Aldermore is a contract of determinate 
duration. I havent seen anything to suggest theres a fixed end date to that contract.
And the provision that the FCA casts some doubt on here doesnt appear in the 
reasons for contractual variation in the current terms of Ms Hs account with 
Aldermore. So I dont think Aldermore did change Ms Hs interest rates for other 
reasons.
Under the 2020 terms, Aldermore can change interest rates on a notice account due 
to changes in the Bank of England base rate (or other reference rates), other 
changes to our costs, or to reflect regulatory or legal changes.
In its first letter, about rate changes on 1 July 2020, Aldermore didnt set out a reason 
for the rate change. In its second letter, about rate changes on 18 August 2020, it 
listed a number of factors it had considered when deciding to change interest rates. 
That included the Bank of England base rate.
In its response to her complaint, dated 21 July (which was written after the second 
letter about rate changes) Aldermore told Ms H that it reduced interest rates after the 
Bank of England cut the base rate. It said that has a broader impact on rates offered 
across the market for both lending and savings products, and savings rates have 
continued to fall. So it needed to make a further reduction to its savings rates.I think that the two rate changes Aldermore has made, referred to above, are likely to 
be either due to changes in the base rate, or to other changes to Aldermores costs. I 
dont think that Aldermore is only allowed to make one change to its interest rates, 
when there is a change to the base rate.
I think the change in interest rates is permissible under the general and the specific 
terms that apply to Ms Hs 30-day notice account. I dont think these changes breach 
the provision of FCA guidance shes referred to, and I dont think they are unfair.
Ms H also said that, by stopping her from continuing to fund her one-year fixed term 
ISA, Aldermore had made a change to her terms without notice. That breached 
BCOBS 4.1.2 paragraph 3, which requires notice. I agree that paragraph does 
require notice for terms which are changed to the disadvantage of customers. But, 
like our investigator, Im satisfied Ms Hs terms werent changed. She was always 
only permitted to pay money into her one-year fixed term ISA for the first 14 days.
When Ms H paid money into this fixed term ISA, outside of the first fourteen days, 
she was taking advantage of a back-office system for paying money into an ISA like 
this when it takes longer to arrive with Aldermore. The terms of her account dont 
allow for this. Aldermore hasnt suggested its going to make her move this money 
back, but it does say she cant do this any more.
As the terms of Ms Hs account never allowed for this paying in facility to extend 
beyond the first 14 days, I dont think Aldermore has changed these terms by 
removing the facility now. I dont think that breaches the provision of BCOBS shes 
referred to, and I dont think its unfair.
In her replies to our investigator, Ms H also raised a new concern, about an interest 
rate penalty applied to her account. She said this had recently happened again. Our 
investigator commented on the first penalty, but not the second.
Ms H didnt raise this in her original complaint to us. Although I know she has raised  
the first penalty with Aldermore, and it mentioned this to us, it did not anticipate that I 
would be considering that, and reaching a final, potentially legally binding view on it, 
when it wrote to our service about this case. So I dont think I can consider that here. 
Our service can open a separate case for Ms H to look at this issue, if she would like.
If Ms H would like our service to consider any second or subsequent penalty, shed 
need to discuss that with Aldermore first.
Ms H also argues that the replacement of the 2019 terms with the 2020 terms was 
invalid, because it was done without notice. Ive explained Ive been able to consider 
this in reference to the provisions on interest rates only, because I think thats part of 
the complaint Ms H brought to our service. But I cant see that Aldermore has been 
asked for a view on any wider point. If Ms H wishes to argue the 2020 terms are 
generally invalid, or that any specific change contained in there is invalid, shed need 
to discuss that with Aldermore before our service could consider it.
I know Ms H will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Aldermore didnt reply. Ms H sent substantive replies.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H raised a number of additional points in her response to our service. Before I look at 
those, Id like to clarify that our service cannot consider additional points at this stage, where 
those arent directly related to the original complaint and have not been raised as a 
complaint with the relevant business. 
Ms H said that shed requested interest penalty calculations, but those hadnt been supplied. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think Im fairly able to consider that issue here. I 
noted then that Ms H can bring a separate complaint about the first interest rate penalty to 
our service if she wishes to do so. She will need to complain about the second penalty to 
Aldermore before our service can consider it. 
Ms H also said that BBA guidance required a firm to notify its customers of changes to their 
terms, and said If a firm makes a major change or a lot of minor changes to terms and 
conditions in any one year it should provide the customer with a summary of the changes 
and tell them where they can find a full copy of the terms and conditions. Ms H said 
Aldermore hadnt complied with this guidance.
I havent been able to find the guidance that Ms H refers to. This text seems to be taken from 
the 2009 Lending Code. But I dont think that makes a difference to this complaint. 
We know that Ms H knew about Aldermores changed terms, because she quoted the new 
terms in her complaints to Aldermore. Even if I decided that Aldermore should have 
summarised terms for Ms H, and it hasnt, that wouldnt change the outcome of this 
complaint, because this hasnt had an impact on this complaint. That provision is about 
making sure customers know about changes. And Ms H did know about the changes. If Ms 
H would like to raise a separate complaint about failure to summarise changes to terms, 
shell need to give Aldermore a chance to consider it.
Ms H also said that she moved her ISAs in January 2020, so the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
Regulation 62(5) applies: Whether a term is fair is to be determined (a) taking into account 
the nature of the subject matter of the contract, and (b) by reference to all the circumstances 
existing when the term was agreed and to all of the other terms of the contract or of any 
other contract on which it depends.  Ms H hasnt said here which term she thinks was 
unfair. And Ive not identified a term that I think is unfair in this complaint. 
Ms H said Aldermore was under a duty to disclose key features of her accounts. But it hadnt 
disclosed the 75 Day back office funding window. She said she couldnt be bound by terms 
if she didnt have any opportunity to become aware of them before entering into the contract. 
Ms H was made aware that it was a term of her account that she was only allowed to pay 
money into her one-year fixed term ISA for the first 14 days. The fact that Aldermore has a 
back office system which allows funding to happen after this date doesnt change that term. 
Ms H was not allowed, within the terms of her account, to continue to pay in to her fixed-term 
ISA after 14 days. She was breaking the rules of her account when she made payments 
after 14 days. So, when Aldermore stopped her from doing this, it was only enforcing an 
existing term, which it had previously drawn to her attention. 
Ms H said that the key features of her one-year fixed term ISA told her she could deposit 
money into another ISA with Aldermore that allows additional deposits. But thats about taking money out, not putting money in. That provision wouldnt allow her to add more 
money to her fixed term ISA after the initial 14-day funding period had closed.
Ms H said that my provisional decision implied that the 6 April 2019 other reasons interest 
term inclusion was unfair. I didnt intend to imply this, and I dont think I have. I dont read 
this part of the decision in the way Ms H does. 
I did say that I didnt think Aldermore was relying on this other reasons term. As I dont 
think this term was used, its not relevant to this complaint whether or not that term is fair, or 
otherwise enforceable. 
Ms H also said that her ISAs have a determinate investment term of twelve months since 
under HMRC Regulations all her ISA deposits made in 2019-2021 tax-year may only be 
transferred on 14 April 2021 without any interest penalties, but not before. 
I dont agree that not being able to move savings without facing an interest penalty would 
make Ms Hs contract one of determinate duration. But even if I did, this goes back to 
whether Aldermore can use the other reasons term to make changes to Ms Hs interest 
rates. And Ive explained I dont think Aldermore did that. So I dont think this point is directly 
relevant to this complaint.
Ms H said that Aldermores updated terms applicable from April 2020 quote Bank of 
England base rate (or other reference rates), without any qualification as to the meaning of 
other reference rates. Ms H said this was akin to other reasons. But again, I dont think 
this directly affects this case. Aldermore hasnt relied on this term about other reference 
rates to change Ms Hs interest rate, so I cant consider a complaint about this issue here.
Ive considered Ms Hs additional points carefully, but I still dont think this complaint should 
be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman