DRN-2598153
The complaint
This is a complaint that The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold Mr W 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr W has said he was led to believe he had to take the PPI in order to get the loan, and that 
the PPI was not presented as optional. This happened about 24 years ago, and so it 
wouldnt be fair to rely only on what Mr W now recalls  it wouldnt be surprising if he didnt 
now remember the details of everything that happened so long ago. There would need to be 
reasonable supporting evidence for me fairly to say The Co-op acted wrongly in the way 
Mr W has said. And I can see that, at least on the application form that Mr W signed, the PPI 
was presented as an option, with a box you had to tick to take out PPI. So that does make it 
appear probable it was offered as a choice. 
I think its unlikely that the adviser recommended the PPI to Mr W as being particularly suited 
to his individual needs. This means The Co-op didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It would have been for Mr W to decide whether it was suitable.  But even if 
The Co-op had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an appropriate 
one in his circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties. The PPI offered cover for unemployment, and it doesnt appear that 
Mr W had significant savings to fall back on. And even if he did have savings, or other 
means of support, the PPI would have put off the time when hed need to fall back on these. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out.
Its hard to know how well The Co-op explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mr W took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely this would 
have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible The Co-op didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr W would have been affected by any of these. And hed be paying for it monthly, 
so he could cancel it at any time without further cost if his situation changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman