DRN-2861594
The complaint
Mr C complains that Funding Circle Ltd unfairly suspended the opportunity to sell his existing 
peer-to-peer crowdfunding loans on its secondary market. 
What happened
Mr C opened a peer-to-peer crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in November 2018.
His investments were held in an Innovative Finance ISA (IFISA) wrapper. Funding Circles 
platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest 
payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to 
borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part with capital paid at the 
end. When Mr C opened his account, Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its 
platform. This provided a way for investors to access their money early by selling their loan 
parts to other investors by way of a secondary market.
In April 2020 Funding Circle made the decision to temporarily pause the secondary market 
as part of its ongoing measures to protect investor returns while it evaluated the potential 
impact of Covid-19 pandemic. This meant that investors were no longer able to access their 
money early by selling their loan parts before the loans matured. 
Mr C complained to Funding Circle as he felt it was unfair for it to remove the option for him 
to be able to sell his loan parts early on the secondary market. He said that taking away this 
option meant he would be forced to hold on to his investments until the loans matured and 
this could be as long as five years time. Mr C said Funding Circle didnt make it clear when 
opening up the account that it could remove this way of exiting early. Mr C was saving for a 
new car and so he only ever intended to invest on the platform for a fairly short period. He 
said no warnings were given around using the platform as a short to medium term 
investment. Mr C said hed like Funding Circle to reinstate the secondary market so that he 
could sell his loan parts early. 
Funding Circle considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the ability to sell loan 
parts on the secondary market wasnt ever guaranteed and this was made clear in its terms 
and conditions. Funding Circle explained that it has a regulatory obligation to ensure loan 
parts sold on the secondary market are appropriately priced. The ongoing pandemic posed a 
number of significant unknowns, such as the length of the restrictions facing businesses or 
the severity of any resulting economic impact. And so, it wasnt currently possible to reflect 
how those unknowns may impact the businesses which investors, such as Mr C, were 
lending to and price those existing loans accordingly. Funding Circle said it was therefore 
prudent to pause the secondary market to protect investors returns.
Funding Circle also explained that Mr C was still able to have access to his funds by 
withdrawing the accumulated monthly capital and interest repayments from the businesses 
hed lent to.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response he received from Funding Circle, so he referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review. 
One of investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
she said Funding Circles regulatory obligations meant that it needed to fairly and 
appropriately price loans sold on the secondary market and she agreed that the current 
conditions caused by the uncertainty of the ongoing pandemic meant that it wasnt currently 
possible for Funding Circle to do this. Funding Circles terms and conditions explained that it 
could make changes to the services it provides and so she felt Funding Circles decision to 
pause the secondary market was fair.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said he felt he was misled by Funding 
Circles website when opening the account as it said he would always have options to 
access his money early. He said no warnings were given to him about the potential to 
remove the secondary market and that Funding Circles terms and conditions didnt go into 
any detail about which services it could change. Mr C said he didnt agree that Funding 
Circles decision was in response to the pandemic as there were issues with selling on the 
secondary market prior to this. He said its decision is favourable to Funding Circle and 
detrimental to investors and so the secondary market should be reinstated. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive considered Funding Circles regulatory obligations. Funding 
Circle is authorised and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA 
regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and 
guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Funding Circle was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
COBS 18.12.17R Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is 
facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm 
must ensure that the price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and 
appropriate.Funding Circle needed to ensure that the information it gave Mr C regarding his account was 
clear, fair and not misleading. It also needed to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and, more specifically in this case, ensure any price offered for exiting loan parts 
were fair and appropriate.
Funding Circles terms and conditions relevant at the time Mr C opened his account 
explained:
10.2 You can withdraw available funds that have not been lent or allocated for 
lending from your Investor Account. If you want to have access to any funds that 
have already been lent, you will need to transfer your Loan Parts by selling them to 
other Investors.
[...]
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any 
assurance as to how long it may take to do so.
From these terms and conditions, I think Funding Circle made it clear to Mr C that if he 
wanted to access his funds early he would need to either withdraw what funds he had 
available or attempt to sell his loan parts early to other investors. Whilst the secondary 
market provided an option for Mr C to explore when looking to access his funds early, 
Funding Circle made him aware that his ability to sell loan parts in this way was never 
guaranteed. 
Mr C has provided screenshots of Funding Circles website to show what information was 
presented to him at the time of opening his account. The main point Mr C has made in 
regard to these is that the website said investors had options to access their money at any 
time. However, what the website says must be taken in conjunction with that the terms say, 
and the secondary market was just one of those options and one which the above terms and 
conditions made clear wasnt guaranteed. 
Funding Circle has explained why it decided to pause the secondary market. 
Notwithstanding the fact that I don't think it was guaranteed or contractual, Ive considered 
its reasons and think they're also fair and reasonable in the circumstances it faced during the 
onset of the global pandemic. As outlined above, Funding Circle must ensure that it fairly 
and appropriately prices loan parts sold on the secondary market. Clearly, its ability to do so 
has been impaired by the pandemic. Generally, investee businesses ability to repay loans 
has been affected by the pandemic which in turn makes lending riskier. Ultimately, Funding 
Circles choice to pause the secondary market is a commercial decision which its entitled to 
make. This isnt something this service can change. Whilst I appreciate Funding Circles 
decision to pause the secondary market is inconvenient for Mr C as he wants access to all 
his money now to buy a car, Im conscious that allowing him to sell his loan parts to other 
investors could be unfair due to the increased risk of the loans defaulting and capital lost. 
Whilst its not clear to what degree the risk of Mr Cs loan parts has increased, its not my 
role to determine this. 
Funding Circle has provided further reasons for pausing its secondary market since the 
complaint has been passed to me. From these, its clear that there were and currently are 
several considerations which Funding Circle has thought about whilst implementing the 
pause to the secondary market. These include difficulty with pricing, a change in lending 
focus and illiquidity. These are reasonable arguments for its commercial decision to pause 
the secondary market and as Ive previously mentioned, Im satisfied Funding Circle made it 
clear that selling by way of the secondary market wasnt guaranteed. On a final note, I understand Mr C says the decision to pause the secondary market is in 
Funding Circles favour. However, theres insufficient evidence for me to conclude this is the 
case  and if it was, Funding Circle wasnt prohibited from making decisions it benefited 
from, as long as it took the interests of its customers into account first. And for the reasons 
Ive given, Im persuaded thats what it did. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman