DRN-4433987
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the actions of Tuto Money Limited (Tuto) which advised him 
on, and facilitated, the transfer of his two occupational pension schemes in 2018. One of 
Mr Ws occupational pensions was a defined benefit (DB) scheme; the other pension was a 
defined contribution (DC) arrangement.
What happened
In April 2018, Tuto issued a Personalised Pension Report (which I will refer to as the 
advice report) which advised Mr W against transferring the benefits from his DB 
occupational scheme to a personal pension. Tuto had previously gathered information about 
Mr W, and his scheme benefits, including a fact-find exercise that was completed in 
December 2017. He had been referred to Tuto from another firm, which I will refer to as 
Firm B. Mr W had been interested in transferring his DB pension because he had seen his 
transfer value increase substantially and because he wanted to replace his kitchen and 
bathroom. 
In response to Tutos advice to not transfer, Mr W emailed Firm B saying he nevertheless 
wanted to proceed with the transfer despite Tutos advice. Firm B forwarded Mr Ws email to 
Tuto which then issued an addendum to its advice report which covered which personal 
pension scheme Mr W should transfer to (a self-invested personal pension, or SIPP). In its 
covering letter to the amended advice report, Tuto included an application form for the SIPP, 
which Mr W completed. Mr Ws DB pension was transferred to the SIPP on 15 June 2018. 
Mr W also had a far smaller DC occupational scheme from the same employer. This was 
transferred to the SIPP on 17 July 2018. 
Mr W was close to 55 in the run-up to the transfers. He was working but intended to retire 
when he reached 55. He had left the sponsoring employer of his occupational schemes 
several years previously. Following the transfer Mr W took some tax-free cash and invested 
the remainder in a global equity fund. He transferred from the SIPP to another provider in 
2020.
Mr W, who is represented by a claims management company, complained to Tuto in 2022. 
His complaint, in brief, was that Tutos advice had been unsuitable because insufficient 
attention had been given to how his pension was going to be invested after the transfer. Tuto 
pointed out that it had advised against the transfer and had only facilitated the transfer on an 
insistent client basis. Mr W nevertheless felt Tuto hadnt acted in his best interests, and had 
breached various Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules, in facilitating the transfer. He 
referred his complaint to us. Mr W has subsequently confirmed his complaint is about the 
transfer of both of his occupational pension schemes.
I issued a provisional decision last month. I upheld Mr Ws complaint, saying the following:
The transfer from Mr Ws DB scheme 
Firms such as Tuto are subject to the FCA Handbook, and under that to the Principles for 
Businesses and to the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). The following is not a 
comprehensive list of the relevant rules, regulations and principles. But I consider them to be 
particularly relevant here:
Principle 2  A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence;
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly;
Principle 7  A  firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading;
COBS 2.1.1R  A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the clients best interests rule);
COBS 4.2.1R  which states (amongst other things) that a firm must ensure that a 
communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading;
COBS 9.5A  which provides additional guidance on insistent client transactions to 
help firms meet their obligations under the Principles, COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 4.2.1R 
(and other rules).
Tuto advised Mr W against transferring in its advice report dated 12 April 2018. It sent the 
report to Firm B the same day. In its covering letter it said the following:
We have recommended not to transfer in this case. 
That said, it may be that he respects our advice, but wants to do it anyway. If this is the 
case, please can [Mr W] confirm this to us with his reasons for pursuing a transfer. This 
needs to be in writing (although we will accept an email), from him and in his own words. 
We also need to receive the client declaration (enclosed) confirming he has read and 
understood the report.
On 1 May 2018, Mr W emailed Firm B to say he wanted to transfer and his reasons why, 
which were: more tax-free cash than he otherwise could take by remaining in his 
occupational scheme; to consolidate his pensions to allow easier management and control; 
and because he had enough to cover his living expenses. Firm B forwarded on Mr Ws email 
to Tuto 24 minutes later. 
On 3 May, Tuto emailed Firm B with an addendum to its advice report which covered its 
recommendation for the SIPP it thought Mr W should transfer to. The email included an 
application form to open the SIPP, which was signed by Mr W on 4 May. Tuto forwarded the 
completed application form, and ceding scheme discharge forms, to the SIPP provider on 
16 May. On the same day, Mr W signed the declaration saying he understood Tutos 
amended advice.
I think a business, acting with the Principles and COBS rules outlined above in mind, 
shouldnt have acted in the way Tuto did. I say this because: 1. In its covering letter enclosing its advice report, Tutos explained to Firm B exactly 
what needed to happen in order for it to accept Mr W as an insistent client and 
facilitate the transfer on his behalf. The email came before Mr W had confirmed his 
intentions. Tuto shouldnt have set out exactly what steps needed to be taken to 
become an insistent client before their client had even confirmed such an interest. 
Doing so undermines the advice being given and gives the impression that the 
insistent client process is just an additional administrative step that needs to be 
completed rather than something more significant  the rejection of financial advice 
given by a qualified professional and the execution of a transaction that had been 
assessed as unsuitable. 
2. The tone of the covering letter enclosing the advice report suggests Tuto expected 
Mr W wanted to proceed as an insistent client. This suggests to me Tuto hadnt done 
enough to establish Mr Ws understanding of its advice. He was, after all, paying fees 
to Tuto for its professional advice. Choosing to go against that advice would, at face 
value, seem a counterintuitive thing to do. This is especially so considering Tuto had 
advised Mr W that transferring wouldnt be in his financial interests and his objectives  
which it had established as part of its fact-find process  could be met through 
alternative means. Given there appeared to be such a limited rationale for the transfer, 
I think Tuto should have done more to work out why Mr W was not engaging with its 
advice rather than treat it as a given and a prompt to smooth the path to him 
transferring as outlined in point 1 above.
3. Tuto should have done more to question why Mr W wanted to proceed with his transfer 
once he had given his reasons for wanting to do so. I say this because Mr Ws reasons 
for transferring didnt raise anything that Tuto wouldnt previously have had knowledge 
of or been able to consider. And the reasons given by Mr W werent, in my view, 
compelling. I dont consider easier management and control of a pension to be a good 
reason for giving up valuable benefits. Likewise, its not clear why someone would 
want to give up valuable benefits just because they could meet everyday expenses. 
And accessing a larger tax-free lump-sum didnt fit with Mr Ws objectives as recorded 
in the fact-find and wasnt information that Tuto hadnt already been aware of. I dont 
need to labour the point  Tutos amended advice report also found the transfer to be 
unsuitable.
So I think Tuto should have done more to probe Mr Ws motivation for transferring and 
his understanding of the repercussions of doing so. It didnt do so. Instead, Tuto 
appears to have acted on Mr Ws email almost immediately  just two days later it had 
sent Firm B its advice on the SIPP it thought Mr W should open along with an 
application form for that SIPP. Tuto did all this before Mr W had even confirmed he 
had understood the amended advice, which he didnt do until 16 May when the 
application form was sent to the SIPP provider. Mr W said he had no direct contact 
with Tuto in this period. That seems likely to me given the documentary evidence. But, 
for the reasons given above, I think some direct contact was merited here.
4. Although the advice report recommended Mr W shouldnt transfer, the messaging is 
mixed. In the conclusions section, before it goes on to say why Mr W shouldnt 
transfer, the report says: We believe that the reasons you have to consider 
transferring outare valid, reasonable and in your best interest. This undermines the 
advice to not transfer. 
Similarly, the opening paragraph of the Insistent Client Warning in the advice 
addendum says: We are prepared to facilitate this transfer as although we feel it is not 
suitable at this time the action does not go against your best interests (my 
emphasis). I think this is the wrong message to give. Transferring wasnt in Mr Ws best interests  if it had been, Tuto should have recommended it. It also undermines 
the other messages in the addendum, which is that transferring wasnt a suitable 
course of action. 
I recognise Mr W confirmed he had understood the advice report, and the amended advice 
report. And he emailed to say he wanted to go against Tutos advice. It also looks like some 
of the urgency behind the transfer may well have been driven by the imminent expiry of 
Mr Ws transfer value. So I recognise that Tuto was, at face value, acting on its clients 
wishes to transfer and to do so quickly. But, for the reasons given above, Tutos role here 
wasnt just to expedite its clients wishes. 
I think if Tuto had acted as it should have done, Mr W wouldnt have proceeded with the 
transfer. Either Tuto would have declined to act on Mr Ws behalf or it would have done more 
to establish why Mr W wanted to transfer given doing so appeared to be both unnecessary 
and contrary to his best interests. Either way, I think it would have been clear to Mr W  in a 
way that it hadnt been because of Tutos mixed messages, hands-off approach and 
demonstrable willingness to transact  that transferring wasnt a good idea. I dont think it 
likely Mr W would have proceeded in that context. 
It follows from the above that I uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint. Tuto should put things 
right for Mr W in line with the approach outlined below. In coming to this conclusion, Ive 
taken into account the fact that Firm B had a part to play here because it acted as a conduit 
between Tuto and Mr W. But Tuto was the regulated business in relation to DB transfer 
advice. It was Tuto that advised Mr W. And it was Tuto that accepted Mr W as an insistent 
client. In short, if it hadnt been for Tutos actions, Mr W wouldnt have transferred. So Im 
satisfied it is fair and reasonable for Tuto to compensate Mr W in full.
The transfer from Mr Ws DC occupational scheme 
Although Tutos advice report said it was addressing both of Mr Ws occupational schemes, 
it did relatively little analysis on Mr Ws DC pension. As such, it appears that the DC pension 
was transferred just because the DB scheme was transferred and keeping the two pensions 
together made intuitive sense to the parties at the time, rather than because the transfer was 
suitable in its own right. However, for the reasons given above, I dont think Mr W should 
have transferred his DB scheme. So, without any compelling evidence to show why the DC 
transfer was suitable, Im not persuaded this transfer should have taken place. I think Tuto 
has breached Principles 2, 6 and 7, COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 9 (which covers suitability). If 
Tuto had acted as it should have done, Im satisfied Mr W wouldnt have transferred his DC 
occupational scheme. 
Mr Ws two personal pensions
Im aware that Mr W also transferred two personal pensions, with the combined value of 
approximately £30,000, to the same SIPP. Tuto doesnt appear to have advised on these 
(which may have been Firm Bs responsibility), so Ive limited my findings to the transfer of 
Mr Ws two occupational schemes. Mr W has also confirmed that it is the occupational 
schemes that are the subject of his complaint.  
In my provisional decision, I also outlined what steps I thought Tuto should take to put things 
right for Mr W.
Mr W agreed with my provisional findings. Tutos response referred to the redress 
arrangements on a different, unrelated, complaint. This appears to have been a mistake. 
This was pointed out to Tuto. It didnt make any further comments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the case once again, and having taken on board the lack of substantive 
comments from either party in response to my provisional findings, I see no reason to reach 
a different decision on Mr Ws complaint. Therefore, for the reasons outlined in the previous 
section, I uphold the complaint. Tuto must now put things right for Mr W in line with the 
approach Ive outlined below.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr W as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if Tuto had acted as it should have done. I think Mr W would have remained in the DB 
scheme. I also think he would have retained his occupational DC scheme. 
What should Tuto do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Tuto must determine the combined fair value of his transferred 
pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value is greater 
than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from Mr Ws personal pension arrangement at the 
date of the calculation in respect of the sums transferred from his occupational schemes. 
fair value  step one
If Tuto had acted as it should have done, I think Mr W would have remained in the DB 
scheme. Tuto must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr W lost as a result of 
transferring out of his DB scheme in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the 
regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, Mr W planned to retire at age 55. So, the calculation should be based on him 
taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of a final decision.fair value  step two
Tuto must use the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of Mr Ws 
occupational DC scheme if he hadnt transferred.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Value of the 
occupational 
DC pension 
transferredLiquidNotional value of 
occupational DC 
scheme had Mr W 
not transferred 
(obtained from the 
trustees of that 
scheme)Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 90 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
In the event that it isnt possible to obtain a notional value for the occupational DC scheme, 
Tuto should use the following benchmark: For half the investment  FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half  average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Tuto should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sums paid into the pensions Mr Ws transferred to should be added to the fair 
value calculation from the point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, 
income or other payment out should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there 
are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Tuto 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto should:
always calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,if Mr W accepts Tutos offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tuto may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. The tax 
rate assumption is not an actual payment of tax to HMRC but an adjustment to ensure that 
Mr W receives fair compensation.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ws risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr W into that position. It does not mean that Mr W would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr W could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £170,000 plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £170,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Tuto Money Limited should pay Mr W the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £170,000 plus any interest on the 
amount set out above.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £170,000, I recommend that Tuto Money Limited pays Mr W the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Tuto Money Limited doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Christian Wood
Ombudsman