DRN-3458881
The complaint
Mr R complains about a decision by Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, not to 
uphold a claim he made to them to return money he spent on a mobile phone.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in whole or part, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). That section says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. There may also be an opportunity to make a chargeback claim. 
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence there has been a breach of contract here as 
Mr R hasnt been able to demonstrate the phone was returned to the merchant, or 
demonstrate that he has supplied the necessary proof of that return to Barclaycard. He 
hasnt, for instance, been able to supply an email trail with the merchant to demonstrate the 
return or any tracking information for the parcel.
So, I dont think Barclaycard have been unreasonable when rejecting Mr Rs section 75 
claim and I dont think a successful claim could have been made under the chargeback 
schemes rules as there was not sufficient evidence the phone had been returned.
Mr R has explained that Barclaycard were willing to accept theyd lost documents in the past 
and that, in that instance, theyd upheld his claim. But I dont think that could fairly be said to 
have created a precedent that Barclaycard would need to follow here as well.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman