DRN-1731858
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about Kingsway Claims Limited and the length of time they took to progress 
his claim for damages on several cars that he owned.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr H instructed Kingsway to pursue a claim for damages that several of his 
cars sustained after tiles had fallen from the roof of the public house next door. He instructed 
Kingsway to claim against the public houses insurance.
In August 2018, Kingsway organised each of Mr Hs cars to be inspected to understand how 
much Mr Hs it would cost to repair the cars. Mr H disputed some of the costs initially, and 
Kingsway allowed Mr H time to provide more information to support this dispute. This 
evidence, and the engineers reports, were sent to the third-party insurer (TPI) in October.
Unfortunately, the landlord of the public house refused to accept liability for Mr Hs claim. So, 
the TPI was unable to investigate the claim and make any offer. In February 2019, Kingsway 
wrote to Mr H saying this, and explained the only way to proceed would be to take legal 
action. However, as further cost information showed that Mr Hs claim was likely to be for 
more than £10,000, it wouldnt qualify for the small claims court track. And because of this, 
they were unable to continue with his claim themselves.
They explained they may be able to introduce Mr H to a third party who would be able to 
issue proceedings on his behalf. But unfortunately, that third party declined the chance to 
take Mr Hs claim forward. So, Kingsway advised theyd be unable to progress Mr Hs claim 
any further. Mr H was unhappy with this decision, so he raised a complaint.
Mr H complained that Kingsway had taken over a year to tell him they were unable to help 
him. He thought theyd failed to progress his claim effectively, and that the cars had 
depreciated in value over that time. He also explained hed been unable to rent his garage 
out during that time as hed needed to keep the cars parked there as they werent 
roadworthy and were awaiting repair. So, he felt hed lost out financially. He wanted 
Kingsway to recognise this and compensate him for the financial impact the delays had 
caused him.
Kingsway didnt agree. They thought theyd done all they could to progress Mr Hs claim and 
they were unable to control the landlord refusing to accept liability for the claim. So, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr H was unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He agreed that thered been a delay 
between the time Kingsway were instructed and the inspection of Mr Hs cars which needed 
to be recognised. But he didnt think the delays led to failure of Mr Hs claim. He explained 
Kingsway had acted fairly when they decided not to act for Mr H any longer as the landlord 
was refusing to agree for the TPI to investigate the claim. Our investigator explained that the financial impact such as the depreciation of the cars and the use of his garage were 
uninsured losses that could only be claimed through court. So, he thought Kingsway should 
pay Mr H £100 to recognise the delays at the beginning of the process which meant they 
were unable to stop acting on his behalf sooner.
Mr H didnt agree with this. He thought £100 wasnt enough to recognise the inconvenience 
hed been caused by the delays to his claim. He explained the £100 didnt cover the postage 
costs hed incurred sending Kingsway information and evidence. So, he wanted a larger 
amount. As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I want to recognise the impact Mr H has suffered due to the claim and the complaint 
thats arisen. Ive no doubt Mr H has been left frustrated at the length of time the claim has 
been ongoing, and the difficulties hes faced when trying to secure payment to cover the 
damages his cars incurred. I can understand how upsetting it wouldve been to find his cars 
damaged through no fault of his own and hed want to repair them as soon as possible.
But, Im aware some of these difficulties have been due to the landlord of the pub refusing to 
accept liability for the claim meaning Mr H has been unable to claim directly through the TPI. 
Its wouldnt be fair for me to hold Kingsway responsible for the landlords decision. But I can 
consider the service Kingsway provided to Mr H directly, and direct them to compensate him 
for any inconvenience hes experienced as a result of their poor service. And I do think they 
couldve handled his claim better.
Kingsway have confirmed Mr H instructed them verbally on 19 January 2018. I cant see that 
any work of value was completed until engineers were instructed to inspect Mr Hs cars in 
August of the same year. Following the engineers reports, Mr H disputed the valuation of the 
repairs, so the claim wasnt submitted until October. By February 2019, the TPI had 
responded explaining they were unable to consider the claim as the landlord has refused to 
accept liability. This is because the claim Mr H was bringing related to a non-insured event. 
So, without the landlords acceptance, Kingsway were unable to force the TPI to consider 
the claim without taking legal action.
I can understand why Mr H was unhappy that it took 10 months between the initial 
instruction and the submission of the claim to the TPI. Without any explanation to show why 
it took so long, I agree that there have been unnecessary delays. I dont think Kingsway 
taking eight months to arrange an inspection for the cars is reasonable and I think it delayed 
the progress of Mr Hs claim. Had the inspections been arranged sooner, I think the claim 
couldve been submitted sooner and in turn Kingsway and Mr H wouldve been aware earlier 
of the dispute with the landlord.
But after the claim was submitted, I think Kingsway have taken reasonable steps to progress 
Mr Hs claim. When they became aware that the landlord was disputing liability, I can see 
they explained to Mr H that legal action would be necessary. And following this, when they 
realised the value of Mr Hs claim was more than the £10,000 limit for the small claims track, 
they explained fairly they wouldnt have the ability to progress the claim any further. I dont 
think it would be fair for me to hold Kingsway responsible for another partys decision not to 
take on Mr Hs claim as it wasnt their decision to make.
So, Ive then considered what I think would reasonably compensate Mr H for the delays I 
think Kingsway caused. I understand Mr H feels his cars have depreciated due to the length of time the claim has taken. I understand he also thinks hes lost the opportunity to rent the 
garage where his cars have been stored. But these are uninsured losses that can only be 
calculated and awarded through the courts. They arent losses Im able to say Kingsway are 
responsible for. I understand Mr H is currently going through this process and should he be 
successful in this claim, these will be considered.
I also dont think it would be fair for me to say that Kingsways failure to progress the claim 
impacted the outcome of Mr Hs claim. I think its most likely that the landlord would always 
have contested the liability, meaning claim through the courts would most likely have been 
the route Mr H wouldve needed to take.
Whilst I wouldnt have expected Kingsway to know at the beginning of the process that the 
landlord would contest the claim, I do agree Mr H wouldve been able to start the legal 
process sooner had Kingsway acted more proactively. Had there not been a delay of eight 
months from the initial instruction, Kingsway couldve realised sooner that they were unable 
to progress the claim on Mr Ks behalf. And I think Mr Hs realisation of this has left him 
frustrated and feeling as though his time has been wasted.
Our investigator suggested Kingsway pay Mr H £100 to recognise this impact. I think this is a 
fair offer that falls within the guidelines of what I would suggest in similar circumstances. So, 
I direct Kingsway to pay Mr H £100 to compensate him for the upset hes faced.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint about Kingsway Claims Limited 
and I direct them to pay him £100 to recognise impact caused by their failure to progress his 
claim effectively.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman