DRN-1794452
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) has unfairly turned 
down a theft claim he made on a contents insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr B returned from a short break to find his home had been burgled. The 
burglar had got into Mr Bs home through patio doors leading onto his balcony. A number of 
things were stolen. Mr B called out the police and an officer inspected his home.
Mr B made a theft claim on his contents insurance policy. Gresham sent out a loss adjuster 
to investigate Mr Bs claim. It also asked for a copy of the police report and records.
About 18 months later, Gresham turned down Mr Bs claim. It referred to an endorsement on 
Mr Bs policy which said theft claims wouldnt be covered unless all door and window locks 
were engaged when the property was empty. It said there was no evidence the thief/thieves 
had entered Mr Bs home by force. And the police report had said the windows were closed, 
but not locked. So Gresham thought the patio door hadnt been locked when the theft 
happened.
Mr B was unhappy with Greshams decision. He said his door had been locked. And he 
pointed to the report from the loss adjuster which said the lock could have been picked. He 
asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for 
Gresham to rely on the endorsement to turn down Mr Bs claim. He didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show Mr Bs doors were locked when his home was burgled.
Mr B disagreed. He said the doors had been locked at all times. He didnt know how he 
could prove otherwise.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 23 March 2020. In my provisional 
decision, I explained the reasons why I didnt think it was fair for Gresham to rely on the 
policy endorsement to turn down Mr Bs claim. I said:
The endorsement was set out on the insurance renewal documents which were sent to Mr B 
ahead of his renewal in 2017. The endorsement states:
Locks Protections condition 1
We will not be liable under the CONTENTS and/or PERSONAL BELONGINGS SECTION(S) 
for loss or damage by theft or attempted theft from the home unless:
 all existing doors and window locks are put into operation when your household has 
retired for the night and whenever the home is left unattended.Generally, its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim under one of the insured 
events their policy covers. If they can do this, an insurer either needs to deal with the claim, 
or show that an exclusion clause applies that means a claim shouldnt be paid.
In this case, Mr B has made a claim under the theft section of his contents insurance policy 
Im satisfied hes shown a theft happened at his property  Ive seen the police report and its 
clear Gresham accepts a theft occurred too. So on the face of it, Mr Bs made a valid claim 
on the policy.
Gresham seeks to rely on the security endorsement as a reason to turn down Mr Bs claim. 
But in order to do so, it needs to show, on balance, that its most likely Mr Bs locks werent 
engaged. I dont think it has.
The attending police officers report said the thief had got into the property through means 
unknown. It said the balcony door was open, but undamaged. And it stated the windows 
were closed, but in the unlocked position. I think whether the windows were locked or not 
doesnt matter in this case, as theres nothing to suggest entry to Mr Bs home was gained in 
this way.
I accept the police report makes no finding either way on whether or not the door waslocked, 
other than to say there was no damage to it. So Ive gone on to look at the other evidence 
thats been sent to me.
Ive seen further records from the police in this case. Theres a note on page 33 of that 
record which says: Method: Persons unknown have forced entry into victims home as 
trespassers and have stolen property from within. It isnt entirely clear who made this record 
or what this note is based on. But it suggests to me that the police at least considered the 
possibility that force was used to get into Mr Bs home. This would also imply, in my view, 
that the door had been locked when the theft happened.
Gresham has sent me a copy of the damage report from its surveyor. This states that the 
engineer had looked at the doors and windows and hadnt been able to find any evidence of 
forced entry at those points. The report concludes: In our Engineers opinion, the only 
possible way of entry is by using a lock pick device or the deadlocks have not been 
engaged.
Ive thought about this. The report makes it clear that its possible the doors hadnt been 
locked. And there isnt any evidence of forced entry. But it also makes clear that its possible 
that the doors had been locked and the locks were picked. The engineer didnt make a 
finding in this report on which method of entry they thought was most likely, or why. So on 
this basis, I currently dont think this report is enough for Gresham to show that, on balance, 
Mr B breached the security endorsement applied to his policy.
Mr B has been clear and consistent about his routine in locking his patio doors. And I find his 
recollections plausible. Taken together with everything else Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
Gresham has shown its fair and reasonable for it to rely on the security endorsement to turn 
down Mr Bs claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more evidence or information they wanted me to look at 
by 22 April 2010.
Mr B said there was nothing further he could add to what hed already said.
Gresham didnt accept my provisional findings. It said that the policy exclusion was very 
clear that if theres no forced or violent entry, then cover wont apply. The police report had said the windows were unlocked  if Mr B made sure his property was locked every night, 
why were the windows left open? It thought me disregarding the fact the windows had been 
left open was unfair. It said Mr B had provided no evidence to show the lock had been 
picked or force had been used. And it said it was down to Mr B to prove his claim and he 
hadnt done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided it wasnt fair 
for Gresham to rely on the endorsement to turn down Mr Bs claim. Ill explain why.
Gresham says it was down to Mr B to prove his claim and he hasnt done so. As I explained 
in my provisional decision, its for a policyholder to show that theyve suffered a loss due to 
something the policy covers. In this case, Mr B needed to show hed suffered a theft. 
Gresham doesnt dispute that there was a theft at Mr Bs property and the police report is 
clear evidence that a theft took place. So Im still satisfied Mr Bs proven hes suffered a loss 
because of something the policy covers.
Once a policyholder has shown theyve suffered an insured loss, the onus switches to the 
insurer to either accept a claim, or show an exclusion clause should apply. Gresham has 
sought to rely on an endorsement which requires all doors and windows to be locked in 
order for theft claims to be covered. Im still persuaded it hasnt shown, on balance, that its 
most likely Mr Bs doors werent locked.
I acknowledge that Mr Bs windows werent locked. Gresham raises the possibility that the 
thief entered the property through the window and Ive thought about this. But the police 
report says these windows were closed, albeit the levers were in the unlocked position. It 
seems unlikely that if the thief had entered through the windows, that they wouldve closed 
the window behind themselves. So I still think its most likely the thief gained entry through 
the balcony doors.
Greshams own engineers report states that In our Engineers opinion, the only possible 
way of entry is by using a lock pick device or the deadlocks have not been engaged. As I 
said in my provisional decision, the engineer didnt make a finding on which method of entry 
was most likely. Its possible the locks werent engaged, but they also thought it was possible 
the locks were engaged and a picklock was used. So I dont think Gresham has shown me 
its most likely the locks werent engaged at the time of the theft.
Taken together with Mr Bs plausible, clear and consistent recollections about his usual door-
locking routine, I remain of the view that it isnt fair and reasonable for Gresham to rely on 
this endorsement to turn down Mr Bs claim.
Gresham has argued that Mr B hasnt provided his own evidence that the balcony door was 
locked. But I dont think he needed to here  Greshams engineer inspected the door and 
made an inconclusive finding. And given its almost exactly two and half years since Mr B 
made the claim, I think it would be of little use for him to engage his own engineer now.
Ive noted that Gresham now seeks to rely on the policy term which excludes cover where 
theres no evidence of force and violent means to gain entry to a property. Gresham didnt 
rely on this clause when it initially turned down Mr Bs claim  instead it relied on the security 
endorsement. But it seems to me it might now be unfair for Gresham to try and rely on this 
exclusion clause. Thats because it didnt do so originally. And in my view, the consideration 
of the security endorsement and the force and violence exclusion clause are usually closely 
linked. If Mr B is unhappy with Greshams decision after its reconsidered his claim, its open to him 
to raise a new complaint with us once Gresham has had a chance to look into it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I direct Gresham Insurance Company Limited to reconsider Mr Bs claim, without reference 
to the security endorsement, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman