DRN-3517808
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of some solar panels.
Mrs N is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mrs N bought solar panels for her home in or around July 2015. The purchase was funded 
by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mrs N into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
After the CMC brought Mrs Ns complaint to our service, Ikano agreed that the panels had 
been mis-sold, and made an offer. However, the CMC was not satisfied with the offer, 
because instead of offering Mrs N the four usual options which successful complainants are 
invited to choose from, Ikano had only provided one  a refund of Mrs Ns overpayments, 
and writing off the rest of the loan balance.
Mrs Ns complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Ikano ought to 
calculate the four options in the usual way. Ikano objected that this would not be possible 
(for reasons which I will set out below). Since no agreement had been reached, the case 
was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
As it is not in dispute that the panels were mis-sold and that Mrs N should be compensated, 
the only issue I need to decide is what that redress should be.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ns complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs N from the solar panels 
over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
Ikano has already caried out this calculation, and found that Mrs N is paying (or has paid) 
more than she should have. So Ikano needs to reimburse her accordingly. Normally, this 
would involve recalculating the loan to put Mrs N in a position where the solar panel system 
is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Ns monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement.
None of the above is in dispute.
The bone of contention in this case is that, once that calculation has been carried out, our 
service normally expects a lender to offer the following four options as to how she would like 
her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment, resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new reduced monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs N and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment, resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs N and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
However, all of these options envisage the loan continuing for a while after the complaint is 
resolved. That is because in most such complaints, the complainant still owes some money 
to the lender, even after taking the compensation into account.
That is not the case here. Mrs N paid a very large deposit  £4,250, which is nearly half the 
cash price of the panels. Between the deposit and the loan repayments she has already 
made, Mrs N has already paid Ikano so much that, after this complaint has been resolved, 
she will not continue to owe Ikano anything.
For that reason, there was last year, and is today, only one way that Ikano can now 
compensate Mrs N  by refunding the amount of the overpayments she has made (with 
interest), and writing off the outstanding balance of the loan. The loan will be closed and 
reported to the relevant credit reference agencies as settled in full. Ikano will need to 
recalculate its offer to bring it up to date, but otherwise Im satisfied that its offer is fair.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs N first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano must pay 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) must:
Refund the amount Mrs N has overpaid and pay simple interest on the refund at 8% 
a year (that is, the offer Ikano has already made, updated to the present);
Write off the outstanding balance of the loan; and
Arrange for the loan to be recorded on her credit file as settled in full.
If Ikano considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs N how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs N a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. Mrs N should refer back to Ikano if she is unsure of the approach it has taken, and both parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more about the tax treatment of 
this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman