DRN-2346019
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
Marks & Spencer charge card account.
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for this complaint, so to keep things 
simple, Ill just refer to Allianz as the seller in this decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1993. The policy was added to Mr Rs 
Marks & Spencer charge card account when he opened the account in a shop. It cost 64p 
for every £100 owed on the account. If Mr R had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid out 15% of the account balance - as 
at the date Mr R stopped working - each month until Mr R either went back to work or the 
balance was cleared. The policy also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The store card application form which Mr R completed included a separate section about 
PPI. There was a box to tick if the applicant wished to take PPI. Mr R ticked the box and 
filled in his name and date of birth to indicate that he wished to take the cover. Im 
satisfied that Allianz made Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it, knowing that he didnt have to.
From what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, I think its 
unlikely that Allianz recommended the PPI to Mr R. I acknowledge that the form says 
We strongly recommend you take this cover by ticking the box. But I dont think Mr R 
would have considered this pre-printed statement to be a personalised recommendation 
addressed particularly to him.
Overall, I dont think Allianz advised Mr R to buy the policy. This means it didnt need to 
ensure that it was suitable for his circumstances. It was for Mr R to decide whether or not 
to take the PPI, knowing what alternative means hed have had of making his monthly 
payments if he couldnt work. But Allianz did need to give Mr R enough information to 
allow him to decide whether the policy was right for him.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Im satisfied that he chose to take out the policy, so it looks as if he 
wanted this type of cover. And based on what hes told us about his circumstances at the 
time, he wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
provisions about unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions).
Mr Rs told us he cant remember how much sick pay or redundancy pay hed have been 
entitled to from his employer. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any 
payments he received from his employer. Its likely it would potentially have paid out for 
longer than Mr R would have received full sick pay for. And he wouldnt have had to use 
his savings to make his card repayments. So I think the policy could have been useful to 
him. 
The policy was competitively priced and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr R couldnt 
afford it. So even though I think Allianz could have explained the cost and benefits of the 
policy more clearly, its unlikely, in my view, that Mr R would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have taken 
out the policy. And since he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any 
time if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover. As it 
is, Mr R has told us he understands he could have cancelled the policy, but he wanted 
the assurance of the guaranteed pay-out from the policy if hed needed it.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Rs comments, including what hes said about having been 
told hed be charged a lower interest rate on the account if he took out the PPI. But Ive seen 
nothing to support this. The PPI section of Mr Rs signed application form refers to conditions 
of use, which were printed in the same leaflet as the application form. And the interest rate 
was set out clearly there. There was a small reduction if the account holder made their 
monthly payments by direct debit. But there was no mention of any reduction for account 
holders who took out PPI. And I think its unlikely, on balance, that Mr R was told that hed 
benefit from a lower interest rate if he took out the PPI.
Mr Rs also mentioned having been told that payment protection was guaranteed. I cant 
know exactly what was said to Mr R when he took the card out. But as Ive commented 
above, the monthly benefit would have been paid if Mr R had made a successful claim on 
the policy. And I think its likely that hed have understood this. 
Mr Rs told us he felt pressured into taking the policy. To uphold the complaint on this point, 
Id need to be convinced that its more likely than not that unfair pressure was put on Mr R to 
take the PPI. And Im not satisfied that I can fairly reach this conclusion based purely on 
Mr Rs recollection of applying for the card so many years ago. 
Mr R has commented that he opened the account with Marks & Spencer and was never 
aware of any involvement on the part of Allianz. But our adjudicator explained to him that its 
not unusual for companies to use separate insurers to underwrite and administer payment 
protection policies. Allianz has accepted responsibility for responding to complaints such as 
this. And the fact that Mr R may have been unaware of Allianzs involvement doesnt affect 
my conclusion that the policy wasnt mis-sold. Finally, Mr R has mentioned other complaints hes brought in which the full cost of the PPI 
has been refunded to him. But we decide each case individually, based on its own 
circumstances and evidence. And for the reasons Ive set out, I dont find that the PPI policy 
was mis-sold in this case.
This means Allianz doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. But Allianz 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
Allianz got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Allianz didnt tell Mr R, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Allianz has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Allianz Insurance Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Allianz Insurance Plc does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman