DRN-3029167
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.  
What happened
Mr M took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a credit card in 2003.
Our Adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint, HSBC disagreed so this complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here. Having done this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or 
suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr M enough clear and timely information so he could 
decide for himself if it was right for him.
I think Mr M would have known something about the policy  that it would cover him if he 
was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed 
have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. However, Im not persuaded 
that he was made sufficiently aware of some of the other features of the policy.
The policy only covered people for full accident, sickness and unemployment up to the age
of 65. Claims for unemployment also had a 60-day qualifying period. This would have been 
of importance to Mr M because he had already turned 63 at the time that he bought the PPI. 
Therefore, Mr M would have had less than two years in which he could benefit from full 
cover. 
Furthermore, Mr M had some other means of making his payments, meaning that he had 
even less need for the policy in the time remaining before he turned 65.
On balance, based on the available evidence, I am not persuaded that Mr M would have
decided to buy the policy if hed have understood that hed only be getting full cover until the
age of 65. This is because he would have appreciated that his need for the cover was
reduced and therefore wouldnt have seen it as good value for money in his circumstances.
It follows that I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Our Adjudicator also found that HSBC was unable to provide a copy of the terms of 
conditions from the time of the sale. But even if I accept the documents provided by HSBC 
were similar to thcat in place at the time, for the reasons explained above it would not 
change the decision I have made.
Putting things right
HSBC should put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI and:
A. HSBC should find out how much Mr M would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
HSBC should then refund the difference between what Mr M owes and what he 
would have owed.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when HSBC works out what Mr M would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
M paid more than enough to clear his balance, HSBC should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr 
M wouldve owed HSBC something on his credit card. The interest rate should 8% a 
year.
C. HSBC should tell Mr M what its done to work out A and B.
D. HSBC can deduct any amount it may have already paid to Mr M for unfair 
commission from the above total.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman