DRN-2459637
The complaint
Mr V complains that Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd, trading as Sterling Insurance 
(Sterling) have unreasonably said he didnt give them accurate details when he asked for a 
car insurance quote. He feels this led to his insurance being unreasonably cancelled. 
What happened
Mr V signed up to a car insurance policy after using an insurance comparison website. 
Sterling were the broker arranging the policy, and a different company underwrote it. 
Mr V says he gave details of two previous claims  one in 2017 and one in 2018  on the 
website. But Sterling only saw one previous claim when they gave Mr V a quote for cover. 
After the policy was agreed, Sterling found out Mr V had made two previous claims. And 
they found hed been involved in another incident in 2019 that hadnt led to an insurance 
claim. They wrote to Mr V  a couple of weeks before his cover was due to start  and said 
the policy would be cancelled. They refunded all but £20 of what Mr V had paid.
Sterling have since explained that the underwriter for the policy wouldnt have quoted for 
customers whod had two or more claims or incidents in the three years before the policy 
began. And theyve said they kept the £20 as this was their set-up fee for the policy.
Our investigator looked at Mr Vs complaint, but decided Sterling hadnt done anything 
wrong. All the evidence showed theyd only been told about one previous claim when they 
gave Mr V a quote. And it seemed reasonable to cancel the policy when they found out this 
wasnt accurate. As Sterling didnt appear to be responsible for the error, it also appeared 
fair they could charge the £20 fee for their work to set up the policy. 
Mr V didnt accept that view, so the case has come to me for a review and final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V doesnt dispute that hed made two insurance claims in the three years before this 
policy was due to begin. Looking at the conditions the underwriter had for providing a quote, 
that does mean Mr V should never have received a quote in this case. So the question for 
me is whether Sterling were wrong to give one.
Ive looked at the information about Mr Vs previous claims that Sterling received when they 
gave him the quote. This only shows one previous claim. I cant see any evidence of Sterling 
being told there were two claims, or anything about the additional 2019 incident. Nor can I 
see any evidence that there was some mistake by them that caused them to only see details 
of the one claim. 
So I find it was reasonable for Sterling to initially provide a quote, given all the information 
theyd been given said Mr V had only made one claim in the previous three years. 
Once theyd found out there were more claims, the decision to actually cancel the policy 
follows from the underwriters conditions. It seems Sterling were acting as agents for the 
underwriter on that matter, so Im not going to comment too much on it here. 
But I can see Sterling told Mr V on 29 October 2019 that the policy would be cancelled after 
5 November. And I can see cover wasnt due to start until 10 November. So I find Sterling 
did enough to tell Mr V about the issue in enough time for him to ensure he had alternate 
cover in place. 
Finally, Ive thought about whether its fair for Sterling to keep their £20 set-up fee, given the 
policy they set-up was later cancelled. 
In the terms of business that Mr V agreed when he accepted the quote from Sterling, I can 
see it says certain non-refundable fees were included in the price. This included the £20 set-
up fee. The terms also said that if the policy was cancelled before it began, Sterling would 
still charge this fee. 
Given Ive found Sterling didnt do anything wrong when they gave Mr V the quote, I find it 
was reasonable for them to apply their terms as written when they cancelled the policy.
I appreciate that leaves Mr V feeling hes out of pocket, as the policy was cancelled due to a 
lack of information he says he provided to the comparison website he used. But I cant see 
that information was passed on to Sterling, or that they did something that meant they didnt 
receive it. So I find they cant fairly be held responsible for the loss Mr V feels hes suffered 
as a result of their not receiving it.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman