DRN-2085062
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also complains that 
hes been fined £111.25 by the DVLA because the dealer didnt notify it of the change of 
keeper for the car that he part-exchanged.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr P was about two and a half years old, had been 
driven for 17,429 miles and had a price of £23,946; 
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that theres damage to the rear of the car and 
Mr P has provided reports from two garages which explain the damage and quote for 
the repairs;
BMW Financial Services and the dealer say that the damage wasnt present when 
the car was supplied to Mr P but BMW Financial Services offered to pay £1,000 
towards the repair costs; 
the investigator was satisfied that the car was damaged before it was supplied to 
Mr P, that he was unaware of the damage when he inspected the car before it was 
supplied to him and that, when he became aware of it, he immediately contacted the 
dealer;
she recommended that BMW Financial Services should pay for repairs to the car at a 
manufacturer approved, VAT registered garage of Mr Ps choice, refund the £150 
that he paid for a diagnostic report and the £111.25 fine that he had to pay to the 
DVLA (both with interest) and pay him £200 for his trouble and upset;
Mr P has accepted the investigators recommendations but BMW Financial Services 
says that it doesnt agree with paying for the repairs but agrees to refund Mr P the 
£150 diagnostic fee and the £111.25 licensing fine (both with interest) and to pay him 
£200 for his trouble and upset;
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I have to make a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances;
having done that, Im persuaded by the two reports and Mr Ps account of what 
happened that its more likely than not that the damage to the rear of the car about 
which Mr P has complained was present when the car was supplied to him and that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time because of that damage; 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for BMW Financial 
Services to pay for that damage to be repaired by a manufacturer approved garage 
of Mr Ps choice;
Mr P paid £150 for a diagnostic report and I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for BMW Financial Services to pay him £150 (with interest) to reimburse him for the 
cost of that report;
Mr P had to pay a fine of £111.25 because the dealer didnt properly notify the DVLA 
of the change of keeper for the car that he part-exchanged and I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to pay him £111.25 (with interest) to 
reimburse him for that fine;
Mr P says that he also had to pay for two tyres to be replaced soon after the car was 
supplied to him  but tyres are a wear and tear item and I consider it to be more likely 
than not on the basis of the evidence that Ive seen that the depth of the tread on the 
tyres was more than 3mm at that time which was above the legal minimum - so Im 
not persuaded that the tyres werent of satisfactory quality at that time and I find that 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require BMW Financial Services to 
reimburse Mr P for the cost of replacing the tyres; and
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience to Mr P and I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to pay him £200 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr P so I find that it would be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to 
pay for the damage about which Mr P has complained to be repaired by a manufacturer 
approved garage of his choice. 
I also find that it should reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report and the fine that 
he had to pay  both with interest. I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for BMW 
Financial Services to pay Mr P £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
that hes been caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:1. Pay for the damage on the car about which Mr P has complained to be repaired at a 
manufacturer approved garage of Mr Ps choice.
2. Pay £150 to Mr P to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report.
3. Pay £111.25 to Mr P to reimburse him for the fine that hes paid.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Pay £200 to Mr P to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to above. BMW Financial Services must give Mr P a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman