DRN-4276871
The complaint
Mr H has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds decision to accept a third party claim 
under his car insurance policy and record him as being at fault for the incident. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr H said he was involved in a collision with another vehicle. He said 
there was no damage to either vehicle. Later in September 2021 the third party made a 
claim for damage against Mr Hs insurance policy with esure. 
Mr H provided photos of his car showing no damage in the area of impact. esure initially 
disputed liability based on Mr Hs photos and said the damage being claimed for by the third 
party was inconsistent. 
However, the third party later provided photos they said they had taken at the scene of Mr 
Hs car showing damage to the left rear. This was inconsistent with the photos provided by 
Mr H which showed no damage to this area. 
esures engineer recommended an independent assessor (IA) inspect Mr Hs car. This took 
place and the IA reported no evidence of previous repair to Mr Hs car in the area of damage 
showing on the third partys photos of Mr Hs car. The IA recommended esure arrange for an 
inspection of the third partys vehicle for a consistency check of the damage being claimed 
for.
esures engineer said that on further review of the photos provided by the third party and Mr 
H, he thought Mr Hs photos showed a colour mismatch for the rear panel in question and so 
thought it likely Mr H had arranged for this part of his car to be repaired in between the date 
of the incident and the date he provided photos of his car. 
On that basis, esure relied on the engineers opinion - and the photos provided by the third 
party - and decided to accept liability for the damage the third party claimed for. 
Mr H complained to esure about its decision. He said his photos clearly show no damage to 
his car. But esure didnt uphold his complaint. So he asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didnt find that esure 
had reached its decision reasonably. She thought the IAs opinion - having physically 
inspected Mr Hs car and focused on the area of damage in dispute - that there was no 
evidence of recent repair - should carry more weight over the engineers view based on the 
photographs. She found that the photos provided by the third party appeared to have been 
provided from an editable screen - and esure had provided no evidence it had followed the 
IAs recommendation to arrange an inspection of the third party cars damage for 
consistency. 
The Investigator recommended esure change the recording of the claim to allow Mr Hs No 
Claims Bonus (NCB) for this claim and pay him £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
esure didnt agree. It said its engineer carefully studied all of the available evidence and 
reached his decision fairly and esure had acted in line with the policy. esure said if the case 
had gone to court, it couldnt defend the photos provided by the third party showing damage 
to Mr Hs car which were consistent with damage to the third party vehicle. 
Mr H accepted the Investigators view. 
As esure didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is a role for the courts. But we can look at whether an insurer 
properly investigated the claim, reached its decision about liability reasonably and line with 
the policy. 
esure has a very common term which Ive seen in most - if not all motor insurance policies. 
esure says:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings 
which may arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for 
our own benefit.
This means that esure may make a decision a policyholder disagrees with, but esure can do 
this. We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided esure can show it reached its 
decision in a reasonable way and treated Mr H fairly. 
esuree engineer examined the photos - provided by both the third party and Mr H - of Mr Hs 
car. Based on the photos provided by Mr H, the engineer was initially satisfied that the 
damage being claimed for by the third party was inconsistent with the damage (not) showing 
to Mr Hs car. 
When the third party provided photos of Mr Hs car showing damage in the area - and 
inconsistent with Mr Hs photos - the engineer recommended an independent assessor 
inspect Mr Hs car. 
The IA reported four areas of impact damage to Mr Hs car. None of these are to the area 
showing in the third partys photos of Mr Hs car. Key comments from the IA report read;
The purpose of my inspection was to examine the vehicle for alleged damage 
consistent with the vehicle having been involved in a road traffic accident.
I confirm prior to my inspection I have been advised by the insured that the area in 
question related to the rear of the vehicle.
Special attention was therefore paid to the rear bumper and adjacent panels.
So from this, Im satisfied that the IA was clear about the focus of his inspection, being in the 
area of damage in dispute. Having closely inspected this area of Mr Hs car, the IA reported;
This model of vehicle is fitted with impact style bumpers which have the tendency to 
deform and retract on impact.
Bumper alignment was found to be to manufacturer's specification, with no evidence 
of kinetic force having been transferred through to the inner structure of the vehicle.
I found no evidence of recent repairs having been undertaken to the vehicle.
I would suggest an inspection of the third party vehicle may assist with confirming 
damage consistency.On receipt of the IAs report, esures engineer said that unfortunately the IA says no 
damage and no signs of previous repairs. The engineer went on to say;
I have attached the image the PH (policyholder) sent in to show no damage to the 
NSR (near side rear) bumper corner, but I have now highlighted the fact the bumper 
corner appears to be a slightly different colour to the panels adjoining it, it may be 
that the PH has not had the bumper corner repaired and painted which is the reason 
(IAs name inserted here) have said no signs of recent repairs, but exchanged the 
bumper corner that is seen to be damaged in the TPs (third partys) image with a 
second hand pre painted bumper corner, which is why the colour now appears to be 
a slightly different shade than the image taken at the scene which show no difference 
in shade.
Based on the review, I would advise the PHV (policyholders vehicle) has made 
contact with the TPV (third party vehicle) OSF (off side front) wing as per the TP 
(third party) VOE's (version of events).
Before the IAs report, the engineer made no comment on a colour mismatch, despite having 
previously reviewed all of the available photos. The IA recommended a physical inspection 
of the third partys car to check for consistency in the damage being claimed for in light of his 
physical inspection of Mr Hs car- but there is no evidence esure arranged this. 
Given the IA physically inspected Mr Hs car, I find it more reasonable to rely on his 
assessment as to whether there was any sign of previous repair, over the engineers 
assessment based on photos, which can be more difficult to decide on colour mismatch 
depending on the angle, time of day and shadowing. 
esure asked the Investigator to comment on the likelihood of success should this claim have 
gone to court - in light of the third partys photos of damage to Mr Hs car. Our Investigator 
asked esure if it could provide evidence it had sought a legal opinion - which esure 
confirmed it hadnt. 
I appreciate that esure says it would be difficult to defend liability based on the photos 
provided by the third party showing damage to Mr Hs car. But I dont think esure properly 
investigated the claim. I think it should have considered a physical inspection of the third 
partys vehicle in light of the IAs report before reaching a decision. After all, the engineer 
recommended an IA report after reviewing the photos provided by both parties. And I think 
the engineers opinion that Mr H may have exchanged the bumper corner with a second 
hand pre painted bumper corner - an opinion given after the IAs report - carries less weight 
than the IAs finding of no evidence of recent repair from a physical inspection. 
So Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. I think esure hasnt reached its decision on this claim in a 
reasonable way. 
Putting things right
I think a fair outcome is for esure to update the recording of the incident (there is no dispute 
an incident took place) to allow Mr Hs NCB. I think esure should pay Mr H £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to do the 
following: 
allow Mr Hs NCB under this claim. 
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman