DRN-2371018
The complaint
This complaint is about a re-mortgage Mr C arranged with Santander UK Plc. Hes unhappy 
with how long the transaction took, as it resulted in him paying the standard variable rate 
(SVR) on his previous mortgage after his fixed rate deal ended. Mr C paid a little over £600 
in extra interest as a result; to cover this and compensate him for his time, trouble and upset, 
Mr C has asked for a refund of his mortgage arrangement fee of £999.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 11 November 2020, I set out, with reasons, the basis 
on which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that 
provisional decision.
Ill deal first with the point about Santanders requirement for additional legal work to be 
carried out on mortgages over £500,000. Ive not looked in to what those checks are, or 
formed a view on whether theyre necessary or not. Thats matter for Santanders judgement 
as a lender, and isnt something Id generally expect it to disclose to applicants as a matter 
of course. Had it done so here, Im not sure how likely it is that it would have changed things 
in any event.
The application records indicate Mr C had £20,000 of savings, which he had plans for. I 
accept he might have been able to postpone those plans, but he was borrowing £520,999, 
inclusive of the arrangement fee. So to get under the threshold for the extra legal checks, Mr 
C would have had to reduce his mortgage by more than he was noted as having saved. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the outcome of this complaint turns on this point. Rather, it 
turns on how Santander dealt with the application itself.
Id start by saying that a refund of the fee (£999) Mr C paid for the mortgage isnt an 
appropriate reference point. The fee was part of the pricing of the mortgage; Mr C has the 
mortgage so hes received what the fee paid for.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Santander to pay Mr C the 
compensation hes seeking, I have to be satisfied that Santander unduly and excessively 
delayed the application by way of specific errors or omissions. 
Looking at the overall progression of the case, it seems to me that for the most part, its one 
where the normal flow of the application was extended slightly whilst matters arising were 
dealt with. I say for the most part because Santander has accepted it did cause, 
cumulatively, about seven days worth of unnecessary delays, and having reviewed 
everything, that looks a fair summation to me. What I dont find to be fair is how Santander 
originally proposed to compensate Mr C for that.
All other things being equal, its reasonable to infer from this that the offer could have been 
issued seven days earlier, the solicitors work could have started seven days earlier and, by 
logical extension, completion could have happened on 6 August rather than 13 August 2019. 
Mr C has assessed his extra interest charge at £615 over thirteen days; had it been only six 
days, it works out at around £284, so I assess Mr Cs financial loss to be £331. The 
investigator put this to Santander, and it has agreed to reimburse Mr C the £331, with 
interest, in addition to the £150 it has already paid him.
Both parties have confirmed they accept my provisional decision. Santander has also 
verified that a payment of £150 credited to Mr Cs account on 3 September 2019 was the 
initial compensation award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions, so I dont.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I order Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mr C £331 plus interest at 8%* on that amount, calculated from 13 August 2019 to the 
eventual date of settlement. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
*If Santander considered that basic rate income tax should be deducted from the interest 
element of my award, it may do so provided it furnishes Mr C with the relevant tax certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman