DRN-2558584
The complaint
Mr G complains about increases, over the years, to the cost of his home emergency policy 
with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) when he held the policy. 
What happened
In 2009 Mr G took out a home emergency policy with Aviva. Each year, the cost of the policy 
increased at renewal, but Mr G didnt shop around for a more competitive quote. 
In 2019, Mr Gs representative felt that he was paying too much for the policy and raised a 
complaint with Aviva. She said that Aviva had taken advantage of Mr G, as it had been 
overcharging him for several years. She also said that she had found policies that were 
much cheaper. So, she asked for a refund of the overpayment that she calculated Mr G had 
made. 
In its final response, Aviva said that its prices were assessed annually and were amended to 
reflect any changes. The renewal prices were accurate for the level of cover provided and it 
took into account Mr Gs claim history. It said that it was unable to refund any of the 
premiums. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome and referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought that it shouldnt be upheld. His view was 
that Aviva had treated Mr G fairly by the way it had priced the policy. And because of this, he 
couldnt recommend any refund of the premiums paid. 
Mr G and his representative didnt agree with our investigator. They said that the 
representative had a similar policy and paid far less, despite making several claims. That the 
policy premiums were excessive, and that Aviva had agreed that they were high and 
reduced the last years premium to reflect this. She also said that the claims history wasnt 
excessive as it averaged two claims per year. So, Mr G asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr G, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I should say at the outset that my role is to look at whether Aviva has treated Mr G fairly 
throughout the time that he held a policy with them. If I find that Aviva hasnt treated Mr G 
fairly, then I would look at the level of compensation that should be awarded. I should also 
make it clear that we cant tell insurers what factors it should consider when assessing the 
risk of a policyholder making a claim, or what price it should charge, in order to cover that 
risk.
In 2009 Mr G paid £29.88 per month for cover. Over the years the price increased and 
sometimes decreased, until he was paying £89.50 per month. I need to look at whether 
Aviva treated Mr G fairly and in line with how we would expect it to have treated other 
policyholders.
When a policyholder hasnt spoken to an insurer after receiving renewal quotes year after 
year and pays the renewal price without engaging with the insurer or shopping around for a 
cheaper quote, wed think its fair to say that they were inert. We would expect that an insurer 
ought to be aware that the policyholder wasnt engaging and not increase the premiums 
because of a policyholders inertia. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I dont think Aviva increased the premiums because of Mr 
Gs lack of engagement, and Ill explain why. It is common practice for insurance companies 
to offer a discounted premium for the first year and later increase the price in order to recoup 
the discount previously given. Also, it is usual for insurers to assess the risk, which may lead 
to an increase in the premiums. 
In Mr Gs case Aviva said that the premiums were affected because at one point a few 
policies were merged into one. The policy that Mr G had was the top of the range of policies 
that Aviva offered. And, the level of risk was affected because of the claims that Mr G made 
on the policy. 
Usually, insurers would say that making a claim often increases the risk of policyholders 
needing to make further claims, so this pushes up the price of a policy. It is accepted that Mr 
G made claims over the years. Aviva has confirmed that it wouldve assessed the risk and 
priced the policy the same way for any other customer in similar circumstances to Mr G.  
And having reviewed the pricing evidence, I am satisfied that Aviva calculated the premiums 
fairly.
I understand the strong views expressed by Mr Gs representative, that Aviva took 
advantage of Mr Gs vulnerabilities and charged him excessively for the policy and that she 
was able to find an alternative policy cheaper elsewhere. But insurers will often assess risk 
differently and often have different prices for this. Just because cheaper alternatives are 
available, this does not mean that the policies are identical, nor does it mean that Aviva 
treated Mr G unfairly. 
So, taking all of this into consideration, I dont think that Aviva has taken advantage of Mr G 
or acted unfairly. And, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman