DRN-2835459
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt update his address on his current 
account.
What happened
Mr S changed his address in December 2020. He says that a few days before the move he 
logged into his account online and told HSBC about his change of address.
After this he tried to make a payment to a third party but the payment was declined on a 
number of occasions. He phoned HSBC and was told the problem was probably with the 
third partys systems. Eventually (Mr S says he made at least three calls to HSBC) it became 
clear that the payment hadnt gone through because HSBC hadnt changed the address on 
his account. Mr S says that HSBC shouldve done more to investigate the problem. He says 
he had no reason to suspect the change hadnt been made because he made a number of 
online purchases since changing his address using his HSBC card. In all those transactions 
he had used his new address. So HSBC shouldnt have let those payments go through.
HSBC said it had no record of Mr S changing his address. However it offered Mr S £20 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said HSBC provided her details of all the 
times Mr S logged on and off his online banking in 2020 and 2021. The records show that 
before December 2020, the most recent log in to Mr S online banking was on 28 August 
2020. She could see that HSBCs records also showed that Mr S address was changed in 
March 2021. HSBC said there were no known IT issues in December 2020 that mightve 
prevented log ins being recorded.
In light of this our investigator said she couldnt say HSBC made a mistake when Mr S 
address wasnt changed in December 2020.
Our investigator also looked into the service Mr S received from HSBC. She listened to the 
relevant phone calls between Mr S and HSBC. She said that initially Mr S told HSBC that the 
payment he was trying to make was showing as pending and he didnt understand why. The 
agent told him to wait a few days as the payment was showing as successful on HSBCs 
side.
A few days later Mr S called HSBC back as the payment was no longer showing at all. The 
agent advised Mr S to contact the third party to see if there were any mistakes on its side. 
Our investigator thought it mightve been helpful for HSBC to have checked Mr S address, 
but as HSBCs showed the payments had been made she didnt think there was anything to 
suggest that the payments wouldnt be processed at that point. The HSBC agent suggested 
that Mr S spoke to third party again. Our investigator thought that advice was reasonable.
Mr S did that, and the third party suggested Mr S checked his address had been updated 
with HSBC. Mr S contacted HSBC again. Thats when Mr S realised that his address hadnt 
been updated with HSBC.
Our investigator also considered Mr S argument that HSBC shouldnt have let other online 
payments go through in early 2021 given that it had his old address on its system. However, 
she said that ultimately it was down to the retailer to decide whether to allow payments to go 
through or not when the address wasnt correct. 
Mr S remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He 
said HSBC shouldve made more effort to troubleshoot when he told it about his difficulties 
paying the third party. If it had done this, it wouldve realised his address hadnt been 
updated.
Mr S is also unhappy that HSBC hasnt been able to send us a particular phone call between 
him and HSBC. He says that call will show how bad its communication with him has been. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr S has told us that he logged onto his account in December 2020 to let HSBC know about 
his change of address. However, the log in information HSBC has sent us doesnt support 
that, and HSBC have told us that it didnt have any IT issues at the time that could explain 
why such a change wouldnt have been recorded. In the circumstances, I cant say that 
HSBC shouldve updated Mr S address in December 2020.
Mr S is very frustrated by his contact with HSBC about this matter. Theres no dispute that 
he had a number of phone calls with HSBC and the third party in early 2021 to try to 
establish why his payments to the third party were declined. He feels HSBC should have 
done more to troubleshoot and help him, and that checking his address shouldve been one 
of the troubleshooting checks HSBC shouldve performed. He complains that HSBC led him 
to believe the issue was with the third party when it wasnt.
Ive considered the phone calls that have been provided to our service. Although I can see 
that Mr S was directed towards the third party by HSBC, I dont think it was obvious that the 
issue was with Mr S address. So I cant say HSBC shouldve checked his address when he 
told it about the problems he was having making the payment. 
Mr S has also argued that HSBC shouldve declined a number of online payments he made 
to retailers around in early 2021 using his HSBC debit card. Thats because the address on 
his HSBC account didnt match up to the one he used when he made those purchases. I 
understand the point he has made. However, Im not persuaded its fair to say that HSBCs 
fraud detection systems should have stopped those payments. I say that because theres 
likely to be a large number of factors that HSBCs fraud detection systems take into account 
before a payment is stopped. Im also conscious Mr S told us he authorised those payments. 
So Im sure that Mr S wouldve been unhappy if those payments were stopped by HSBC.
 
Finally I can see that Mr S is unhappy with the information HSBC has provided us in 
connection with this complaint. He says it has provided us with a copy of a phone call that 
isnt relevant to the complaint and hasnt been able to find another one that he says shows 
HSBC led him to believe the issue was with the third party. I understand Mr S frustration 
about this. However, it isnt for me to punish HSBC. My role is to try to resolve his complaint 
on the basis of all the information available.Taking the matter as a whole, I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman