DRN-2822817
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of his car.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr A was supplied with a new car through a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for 36 months, with monthly rental payments of £358.56.
When the agreement came to an end, Mr A arranged to return the car. The car was collected 
on 23 October 2020, and the collection agent visually inspected the car for damage. A 
further inspection of the car took place on 25 November 2020 at MBFSs Defleet Centre.    
Mr A was then invoiced for £420.30 for damage to the left-hand front wheel, front bumper, 
front door and rear door. He was also invoiced for an additional 28-days usage.
Mr A wasnt happy, and he complained to MBFS. He said hed handed back the car when 
the agreement ended, and the collection agent agreed there was no damage to the car when 
it was collected  he thought the damage had been done after the car was collected. 
Mr A also sent in photos and a video of the car from the day of collection. MBFS agreed he 
shouldnt have been charged for the additional usage and removed this charge. But they 
said there was damage to the car that fell outside of their Vehicle Return Standards (VRS). 
And they thought they were right to charge Mr A for this. Mr A was unhappy with MBFSs 
response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, while the collections agent may have said the car was in a good 
condition, its for MBFS to determine what charges should be applied in line with their VRS. 
Which is why a second inspection is carried out. And she said that, from the evidence shed 
seen, the damage MBFS were charging for was present on the car at the second inspection.
The investigator also said the car had travelled 182 miles between collection and the second 
inspection. But she thought it was more likely that the damage wouldve occurred in the 
three years, and 24,406 miles, Mr A had the car for. So she didnt think MBFS had done 
anything wrong by charging Mr A for the damage.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said the initial inspection was very detailed, and 
the second inspection took place 33 days, and over 180 miles, later. He said that the 
damage to the left-hand front wheel is within MBFSs VRS, and that the first inspection 
report doesnt show any damage to the front bumper or the left-hand front door, which is 
supported by his video evidence. And he believes that, if the damage was present when the 
car was collected, it would show on the first inspection report. So hes asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a contract hire agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the contract hire agreement, which Mr A signed on 10 October 2017. 
Under the heading Vehicle Return Standards, the agreement confirmed when the vehicle is 
returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. The contract goes on to explain what is, and 
isnt, considered acceptable under the VRS. 
MBFS have also said they also provide customers with another copy of their VRS, six 
months before the end of any agreement. Given all of the above, Im satisfied that Mr A 
shouldve been reasonably aware of where the car would be inspected. Because of this, I 
dont think MBFS did anything wrong by completing an inspection at their Defleet Centre, 
after the car was returned to them. And I dont think that an inspection taking place at the 
point of collection changes this.
Ive seen the report from the first inspection, that took place on 23 October 2020 at 18:47. 
The section headed Condition this has been left blank. And, under the section headed 
Result, the report says, Second Inspection Required. Whats more it appears to me, 
looking at the video taken at the time of this inspection, that it was too dark for a detailed 
inspection to take place.
Ive also seen the report from the second inspection, which took place on 25 November 
2020. This says there was rim damage to the left-hand front wheel, scratches to the left-
hand front bumper chrome moulding, a dent in the left-hand front door, and poor paint finish 
on a previous repair to the right-hand rear door. All of this damage exceeded the VRS. The 
report also contains a video clearly showing all of the damage being charged for.
Mr A has supplied photos and video of the car, which he says he took on the day of 
collection. Comparing these to the video provided with the second report I can see that the 
left-hand front wheel has rim damage that exceeds the amount of fair wear and tear in the 
VRS. And this damage is clearly present in Mr As photos and videos. 
Mr As photos and video also shows what may be damage to the front bumper and left-hand 
side front door, which matches with the damage in the report video. But his photos and video 
arent close enough to see this damage clearly. Mr A hasnt provided a photo of the right-
hand rear door, and his video isnt close enough to see the quality of the paintwork.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that most of the damage Mr A is being charged for is 
either present (wheel rim damage) or highly likely to have been present (damage to bumper 
and dent in door), when the car was collected from Mr A. With regards to the repair to the paintwork, I need to consider whats more likely than not to 
have happened. And I consider it more likely than not that this this repair took place during 
the three years Mr A had possession of the car, rather than the month between collection 
and the second inspection. This is because of the vast difference in the two time periods, 
and that its highly unlikely MBFS would attempt to repair some of the damage before then 
formally inspecting the car for damage.
So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, I think that MBFS acted 
reasonably by charging him for the damage to the car, and I wont be asking them to amend 
their invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman