DRN-4021534
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc were unethical with what they told him regarding a 
capital repayment to his Santander loan.
What happened
Mr P says that he made a lump sum of £7,500 on 11 October 2022 to reduce his Santander 
loan balance. He says he was told that the payments moving forward would be 94p, but the 
adjusted monthly payment could take up to three months to process. Mr P says that the next 
payment was £150.55, but his issue is that the call handler didnt inform him that this would 
be his next payment amount. He believes she should have told him this. He said he asked 
Santander if the repayments could be adjusted to a more practical amount over the 
remaining loan term and they refused. Mr P made a complaint to Santander. 
Santander did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. They said he was told by the call handler that 
the monthly instalment following a capital repayment would take up to three months to 
reduce, at which point Mr P agreed to go ahead with the capital repayment. They said Mr P 
was also told at the end of the call he would receive a letter confirming the new monthly 
payments within three working days. Santander said they couldnt agree that there had been 
any error. 
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He advised Santander that his repayments would 
stop as he was raising a complaint with our service, but they told him that missed payments 
would be registered on his credit file, which Mr P feels is incorrect if an active complaint is 
present. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said on 11 October 2022, 
Santander informed Mr P that it would take up to three months for the reduced monthly 
repayments to take effect, so he thought it was reasonable that Mr P ought to have been 
aware that the payment may not be reduced by the following repayment. He said although 
Mr P told him that he thought that this was just standard wording, Santander upheld their 
obligation by telling Mr P this could take some time. He said they sent Mr P a letter dated 11 
October 2022 confirming the contractual repayments to be made moving forward. 
Mr P asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said if Santander knew that 
payments would reduce to 94p at the time he made the call then they also knew the amount 
that would be due on the next payment, but this wasnt disclosed to him on the call, which he 
finds this to be unethical. Mr P says he would have made alternative arrangements with 
payments if he knew that the next payment would be £150.55. He said Santander did not 
state that the next payment would be higher, only that it may take three months to reflect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr P that it is not within this services remit to tell a business to make 
changes to their policies or procedures, such as what verbiage they should use on the 
phone when a capital repayment is made. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Santander to make changes to their 
policies and procedures, if necessary. 
I know Mr P feels Santander told him incorrect information about if an active complaint is 
present then he should be able to stop his repayments. But Santander have a duty to 
accurately report his payment history to the Credit Reference Agencies. So they did tell him 
the correct information that he should continue to make his repayments even though he was 
bringing his complaint to our service, otherwise this would affect his credit file. 
Ive listened to the phone call that Mr P had with Santander on 11 October 2022. He asks if 
he made a lump sum repayment how would the repayments get recalculated if he paid 
£7,500. The call handler says for 7,500, your monthly payment can take up to three months 
to take effect, but that will bring it down to only 94p. Mr P asks if the loan term is reduced 
instead, what would happen. The call handler tells him that the monthly repayment would 
stay the same, but he would have one more payment. Mr P then agrees to pay the £7,500 
and have the lower repayments. The call handler informs him he would get a letter in three 
working days to confirm this.
Im satisfied that Mr P was told that it could take up to three months for the monthly 
repayment change to take effect. Because of the wording used here, Im persuaded that an 
expectation was set for him on the call that it was possible that the monthly repayment would 
stay the same (and therefore be higher than 94p) until the change took effect. And Mr P still 
agreed to their process and he made the capital repayment. Mr P did not ask the call handler 
to tell him the exact amount of his next direct debit payment, so I dont agree Santander 
were unethical with how they handled his query and they followed their process.  
Mr P has said he would have made alternative arrangements if he knew that the next 
payment wouldve been £150.55. But if he was in any doubt what the three months to take 
effect meant for his repayments, then it wouldve been proportionate for him to ask the call 
handler how this would affect him. Santander sent him a letter dated 11 October 2022, which 
told him that the next payment due on 1 November 2022 was £150.55 and his 1 December 
2022 payment (and future payments) would be 94p. So Im satisfied that they informed him 
before his next direct debit was collected of what the next repayment would be. And as he 
had agreed to the change then Im satisfied Santander did not act unfairly by not agreeing to 
rework the loan. So it follows I dont require Santander to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman