DRN-3361943
The complaint
Mr E complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited  trading as 
Scottish Provident unreasonably took instructions that led to a reviewable whole-of-life 
assurance policy lapsing. Before it lapsed, the policy was held by a trust for which Mr E was 
one of three trustees. 
What happened
Mrs R took out this policy in 1998, and immediately put it in a trust. She made herself, Mr E 
and one other person trustees at that point. Mrs R appears to have paid the monthly 
premium, and made decisions about the policy from that point on. 
In 2011, Mrs R registered a lasting power of attorney. That gave another person  Ms H  
power to make decisions that affected Mrs R personally. It doesnt appear this was sent to 
Scottish Provident until much later  in 2020.
In 2018, the policy failed one of its reviews. Scottish Provident wrote to Mrs R with four 
options for managing that. They also sent a copy to Mr E  who was Mrs Rs financial 
adviser. But Mr E says he didnt receive that letter. 
Scottish Provident received a response choosing the fourth option on the list. But the 
response wasnt signed with Mrs Rs signature. So Scottish Provident wrote to her again and 
asked for a document to confirm her identity.
The form was then returned to Scottish Provident with Mrs Rs signature next to the previous 
one. A note was also added, saying power of attorney reg with yourselves. My 
understanding is that the first signature was therefore the attorneys  Ms Hs. 
Scottish Provident wrote to Mrs R and Mr E confirming theyd accepted the instruction and 
carried out the chosen option. Mr E again says he didnt receive the letter. 
That option led to the policy lapsing in May 2020. Mr E and Ms H seem to have noticed this 
a few months later, and complained to Scottish Provident. 
In response, Scottish Provident felt theyd taken reasonable steps to confirm Mrs Rs 
instruction, having made it clear what her options were. So they wouldnt reinstate the policy.
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. But our investigator agreed with Scottish Provident  
reasonable steps had been taken to make Mrs Rs options clear, and then to confirm her 
instruction. The lapsing of the policy followed from her choice, rather than any failing by 
Scottish Provident. 
Mr E has passed on Ms Hs comments in response to that view, asking for a final decision. 
They feel more should be expected of Scottish Provident to have enquired about Mrs Rs 
mental capacity once they were told about the power of attorney. And to have estimated how 
long the policy would last with the option chosen, before it lapsed. 
On that basis, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator  for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain my thinking.
I find it reasonable Scottish Provident sought instructions about the policy from Mrs R. She 
had initially taken out the policy, and she was a trustee of the trust the she gifted it to. So 
Scottish Provident could expect her to make decisions that suited her circumstances and the 
objectives of the trust. 
I cant see Scottish Provident were given any information to suggest Mrs R lacked the 
capacity to make her own decision in 2018. I cant see theyd been told about the power of 
attorney, or that any concerns had been raised with Scottish Provident about whether Mrs R 
could make decisions about the policy.
There was though a hint in the correspondence from 2018. The signed document Ive 
mentioned above referred to a power of attorney. And while it didnt say it was for Mrs R, that 
feels like a safe assumption, given the circumstances. But that alone stops short of saying 
Scottish Provident needed to question Mrs Rs ability to make decisions about this policy. 
A power of attorney doesnt necessarily mean someone has lost capacity to make their own 
decisions. Nor  alone  does the fact someone has reached a certain age. I find there 
needed to be more here to suggest Mrs R didnt understand what she was being asked, 
before Scottish Provident needed to do more to challenge her choice. 
As it was, Scottish Provident had a signed instruction from Mrs R  trustee and settlor for the 
trust that owned the policy. It was reasonable they accepted that as being her instruction. 
Ive thought about Mr Es point that more should have been done to explain the choices 
available to Mrs R. But I find there was repeated warning that the option shed chosen would 
mean the policy would end when the payments werent enough to cover the cost. This 
warning was notably repeated when Scottish Provident wrote to Mrs R to ask for some 
identification, before she confirmed her instruction. 
I find the warnings were enough to explain the consequences of the choice being made. 
Also, the letters Scottish Provident sent to Mrs Rs financial adviser  Mr E  gave another 
opportunity for the trust to consider the position. Mr E was also a trustee, and Id expect him 
to have stepped in if the decision was at odds with the trusts objectives at that point. 
It's unfortunate Mr E seems not to have received any of the letters Scottish Provident have 
shown us were sent at the time. But I cant see thats because of a failing by Scottish 
Provident. The letters had the correct address on them, and their dates and content are 
consistent with the letters that were sent to Mrs R. I cant see any evidence that only the 
letters to Mrs R were sent, so I conclude the letters to Mr E were sent too, but for some 
unknown reason werent seen by him. 
Ive thought about Mr Es comment that an estimate for how long the policy was going to last 
with the option Mrs R chose would have led her to make a different decision. But thats not a 
requirement with these sorts of letters. The information just needed to be clear enough that 
Mrs R could make an informed choice. And I think it meets that standard.The absence of an estimate still left Mrs R on notice that the policy would end when it ran 
out of money. Her decision could then factor in that the policy could end at any point after 
shed made her decision. The letter with the options made it very clear that only the other 
options  which either cost more or provided less cover  carried any guarantees about the 
policy lasting another five years. 
With the above in mind, I conclude that it was reasonable for Scottish Provident to accept 
Mrs Rs instruction, and that they gave her sufficient information to make an informed choice 
at the time. I see no errors or mistakes that Scottish Provident should be responsible for. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E as trustee of 
the Mrs R Flexible Gift Trust to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman