DRN-4454801
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service provided in relation to the repair of his washing
machine under his Kitchen Appliance Protection insurance policy with Fortegra Europe
Insurance Company Limited. 
 
What happened
On 20 May 2022, Mr S made a claim under his policy as his washing machine was making a 
grinding noise when operating. An engineer attended five days later and said the machine 
would probably need to be replaced. Mr S was told that he would check the cover under the 
policy and let him know the options. Mr S chased for an answer on 27 May and was told that 
a new drum had been ordered and it would be fitted on 27 June 2022. After Mr S complained 
about the delay, the new drum was fitted on 17 June 2022. 
The repair was carried out but Mr S says that when he used the machine for the first time 
after the repair, it leaked causing substantial damage to his kitchen. Mr S says it caused 
three wooden cabinets to swell and become dark and dirty; plinths were also damaged; and 
the carpet in the living room was affected and had to be cleaned. Mr S says he switched off 
the water quickly but it continued dripping water for the whole weekend. Mr S says there was 
no emergency support from the insurer and when he spoke to them on 24 June 2022 it said 
it could not attend until the following Friday. Fortegra attended then and found that one of the 
pipes at the back of the machine had not been connected properly. It rectified this and I 
understand the machine has been working since. 
Mr S is very unhappy with what happened. He has made a number of points in support of his 
complaint. I have considered everything he has said and have summarised the main points 
below:
He bought the policy for peace of mind but received poor service and Fortegra 
caused damage to his kitchen.
He has three young children and there was a month delay in getting the part and 
repairing the machine, which was inconvenient and challenging. 
The repairer wasnt expecting the repair he turned up to do and said hed never 
repaired an integrated washer and dryer before. The repairer told him the machine 
should have been replaced, rather than repaired. He called two other people while 
there to query what he should do. The repair took four hours and Mr S had to help 
the repairer several times, as it was not a one man job.
The repairer left in a rush and didnt test the machine before he left. If he had the 
damage would not have happened.
The repairer left the old drum, which weighs around 25-30kg behind and is almost
the size of the washing machine in his living room. He couldnt dispose of it in his 
household waste, so had to put it in his garage. Fortegra finally collected it in 
September 2022.
He begged Fortegra to attend sooner in response to the leak, as his new kitchen was 
being ruined. 
He and his family couldnt use the dishwasher or kitchen sink while waiting, in case it 
caused more problems.
Fortegra apologised for the time taken to tell Mr S whether the machine would be repaired, 
as well as the time taken to do the repair and that he had to assist the repairer. It offered £50 
compensation for this. Fortegra also accepts that the condenser at the back of the washing 
machine tub was not fitted correctly and this would have caused a leak. However, it said 
consequential loss is not covered under the policy and so it is not responsible for the 
damage to his kitchen. 
In addition, Fortegra disputes that using the washing machine one time would have caused 
the damage that Mr S is claiming happened to his kitchen anyway. Fortegra says the water 
from the washing machine would have been clean fresh water, so would not have caused 
dirt or staining. Fortegra also says that the water would have travelled down and therefore 
would not have affected the side panels, the other cupboards (especially considering the 
dishwasher cupboard is three along from the washing machine) or the plinths. And it would 
not have been leaking for long before Mr S turned it off and would not have caused the 
extent of damage Mr S has said. 
Fortegra says the leak might have caused some damage to the cabinet that houses the 
washing machine but there was already visible damage to that housing in the photos taken 
from the first repair visit.
One of our Investigator looked into the matter. He did not recommend that the complaint be
upheld, as he was not persuaded the damage to the kitchen was likely caused by the leak
from the washing machine. The Investigator was also satisfied that the offer of compensation
already made was reasonable for the other issues.
.
Mr S did not accept the Investigators assessment. He said Fortegra said itd taken before
and after photos to show the damage to the washing machine housing existed before it
carried out the repair. However, this was date stamped after the repair was carried out. It
then provided the same photo date stamped before the repair. If Fortegra actually has
photos of the damage before the repair was done then he would concede the matter but if it 
has lied and not taken such photos as it claimed then it needs to take responsibility for that. 
Mr S also said that there is no record that Fortegras engineer followed proper testing 
procedures after the repair, which he should have done.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter in October 2023, the main part of which Ive 
copied below: 
Mr S was unhappy with the time taken to repair the machine. I can understand it 
would have been inconvenient without the washing machine for any period of time, 
given he has three children as well. Fortegra had to order a new part but it took four 
weeks altogether. Ive not seen any convincing evidence about why it took this long, 
so I think on balance it could have been done sooner than it was.
Mr S reported the machine making grinding noises and shaking. The repairer 
Fortegra sent out diagnosed that this was due to a problem with the drum and 
replaced it. After the drum was replaced, Mr S reported the leak. It is accepted that 
the leak should not have happened, and was due to an error by Fortegras repairer 
and it arranged for the leak to be fixed.Mr S asks if the repairer followed proper testing of the machine, and any record of 
that, for leaks before leaving his property. However, I dont think I need to take that 
point any further, as Fortegra accepts that it was responsible for the leak. The 
dispute is about whether this was the cause of all the damage Mr S has reported to 
his property.
Fortegra provided a photo which it says was taken before the repair was carried out, 
which it says shows swelling at the base of the washing machine housing. It does 
appear to show that but I also note there was some doubt about the time and date 
this photo was taken. This is also the only photograph provided by Fortegra.
 I do think it likely that it caused some water damage to the washing machine 
housing. I say this because I note that the repairer that attended to the leak recorded 
that he had huge battle refitting machine as previous flood has swollen surrounding 
fittings. However, I cant see that there was any record of an issue refitting the 
machine after replacing the drum. So it seems to me that this damage to this 
cupboard was likely caused by the leak from the washing machine.
Fortegra did not take any photos of the other cupboards or the kitchen which would 
assist in my determination of the likely cause of the damage to them.
Mr S has provided some photos in support of his complaint. One photo is of the 
threshold between a tiled floor (presumably of the kitchen) and a carpeted room. Mr 
S says the carpet in that room was wet and smelly. It is difficult to see in the photo 
any water marks or whether it is wet or not. Another photo shows the bottom of an 
open kitchen cupboard and plinth.
There are dirty marks on the plinth and there is what looks like water damage to the 
bottom and the top of the plinth, with the top showing signs of the painted/laminate 
coating chipped and damaged
There is also a photo of what looks like the dishwasher door partly open and signs 
that it has rubbed against a wet housing panel and taken off the laminate coating and 
another showing water dripping from bottom of a cupboard door. Finally, there is a 
photo showing a small puddle of water on tiled floor of the kitchen, away from the 
cupboards and washing machine. The damage visible in these photos is quite 
extensive.
I can understand that there would have been a large volume of water leaking from 
the washing machine when he turned it on. However, Mr S says that the machine 
was turned off and the leak stopped relatively soon afterwards, though the water 
continued until the contents of the washing machine had drained. Mr S says it was 
not stopped soon enough to stop the damage.
I have considered the photos he has provided. I note the damage to the dishwasher 
housing is on a side panel that sits on top of the plinth, so it is raised off the ground 
by several inches. It is difficult therefore to see how this was caused by a leak from 
the washing machine, which was some distance away from the dishwasher.Water does spread and I can see that if the plinths were sitting on top of water, they 
might absorb that water upwards. However, the plinth that the side panel is sitting on 
does not show signs of water damage. The photo also shows the coating on the 
corner of the cupboard door next to the dishwasher is peeling back and some 
swelling. However, this again is not touching any plinth. It is therefore difficult to see 
how any water leaking from the washing machine would have made contact with the 
bottom corner of a kitchen cupboard door, and the side panel of the dishwasher, both 
of which are several inches off the ground and not sitting next to any other kitchen 
part that might have soaked up the water.
I also note that photos of the damaged plinths show that most of the damage is [to 
the] top of the plinths where they would meet the cupboards, rather than the bottoms. 
In addition, it looks like they have been chipped. Again, it is difficult to see how this 
damage to the tops rather than the bottom of the plinths could have been caused by 
any leak from the washing machine.
I also note that the plinths are dirty and stained. Mr S says this was caused by the 
water leak but this does not appear to be consistent with the evidence available. I do 
not consider it likely that the stains on the coating of the plinths, which are several 
inches high, would be caused by clean water from the washing machine.
Overall, I do not think there is enough evidence for me to reasonably conclude that 
the damage to these cupboards and plinths was likely caused by the leak from the 
washing machine.
Having determined I think it likely Fortegra caused some damage to the washing 
machine housing, I think some compensation is due for that. I also consider 
compensation is due for the initial repair taking too long and the need for a further 
visit to fix the leak, which should not have been necessary. There is no evidence 
about what might need to be done regarding the washing machine housing.
Having considered everything, I therefore think that a global award of compensation 
to recognise there is likely some damage to this housing and for the handling of the 
claim to be appropriate. I consider the total sum of £250 to be appropriate.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further comments or 
evidence they want considered. 
Fortegra has confirmed it accepts my provisional decision.
 
Mr S has not responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has added anything further, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings. I therefore remain of the opinion that Fortegra should pay £250 compensation for 
the damage caused to the washing machine housing and the trouble caused to Mr S by the 
handling of the claim.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd
to pay Mr S the sum of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience cause by its
handling of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman