DRN-2456783
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charge used to calculate the excess mileage cost at the end of his 
hire agreement with Lex Autolease Limited (Lex). 
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire agreement for a vehicle with Lex in July 2015. The annual mileage 
for the agreement was 10,000, meaning a total of 20,000 miles over the two-year 
agreement. After this, an excess mileage charge of 13.05 pence per mile (ppm) plus VAT 
would apply. 
Mr M extended his agreement in July 2017 for an additional six months. The agreement 
extension confirmed a new total mileage allowance of 25,000 miles, and a new excess 
mileage charge of 19.58ppm plus VAT. 
When the extended agreement came to an end in February 2018, Mr M kept the vehicle on 
an informal basis. Lex confirmed that the total mileage allowance would become pro rata. Mr 
M handed the car back on 10 September 2019. 
When Mr M handed the car back, the total mileage was 48,958. Lex informed Mr M that this 
was 7,933 miles over the total mileage allowance, and a charge of £1,553.28 plus 20% VAT 
applied for this. 
Mr M complained to Lex about this charge. He said theyd used the excess mileage charge 
of 19.58ppm for the whole of the agreement, rather than using the lower charge for the first 
two years. 
Lex sent Mr M their final response to his complaint in December 2019. They told him that the 
agreement extension showed the new excess mileage charge of 19.58ppm, and that this 
applied to the whole of the agreement. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M bought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr M. She thought the agreement extension, that Mr M had signed, was clear 
about the new excess mileage charge and that it applied to the whole of the agreement. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the agreement extension wording is unclear, and it shouldve 
been explained clearly to him that the higher charge would apply retrospectively. Mr M says 
he was already in excess of the mileage allowance at the end of the original two-year 
agreement, so he expected to pay an excess mileage charge, but at the lower rate.
 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time the original agreement started, Lex set the excess mileage charge at 13.05ppm. I 
believe this wouldve been partly based on an assessment around how much any additional 
mileage would devalue the vehicle when it was returned to them. 
Instead of returning the vehicle at the end of the agreement, Mr M decided to extend it. In 
extending the agreement, Lex and Mr M renegotiated its terms. I can see that the term of the 
agreement was changed from 24 to 30 months, Mr Ms monthly payments changed from 
around £300 a month to around £230 a month, the total contract mileage allowance was 
increased from 20,000 to 25,000, and the excess mileage charge changed from 13.05ppm to 
19.58ppm. 
At the point of the agreement extension, I think it was fair for Lex to reassess how much any 
additional mileage would devalue the vehicle when it was returned to them, and how much 
Mr M would need to pay on a monthly basis to keep the car. 
So, I find that it was fair and reasonable for Lex to renegotiate the terms of the agreement as 
it did when Mr M requested an extension. 
Mr M says that Lex didnt make it clear that the new excess mileage charge would apply to 
the original period of the agreement. 
Ive seen the extended agreement, which confirms that the revised duration of hire is 30 
months. It sets out Mr Ms monthly payment amount, and says that upon termination of the 
contract, the excess mileage charge will apply if the vehicle exceeds the new total contract 
mileage of 25,000. I think the agreement is clear that the excess mileage charge applies to 
the whole term of the agreement. So, I find that Lex didnt mislead Mr M when he signed the 
extended agreement, and he ought reasonably to have been aware that the new excess 
mileage charge would apply to the whole term. 
Mr M says that when the extended agreement ended, he continued to hire the vehicle on an 
informal basis. There was no written agreement for this, so no excess mileage charge 
should apply for this period. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr M contacted Lex at the end of the extended agreement, and a 
discussion took place about the monthly payments to continue the agreement on an informal 
basis. Mr M also asked Lex if the mileage allowance would be extended on a pro rata basis. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr M was aware that by keeping the car, it was still subject to the terms 
of the agreement, including the mileage allowance, and an excess mileage charge. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that Lex fairly renegotiated the terms of the agreement 
when it was extended, and that it provided Mr M with enough information to decide whether 
to extend, or to hand the car back at the end of the original term. Mr M chose to sign the 
extended agreement, which I think was clear, so hes responsible for the excess mileage 
charge that Lex have billed him for. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman