DRN-1192249
The complaint
Ms K has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the way her 
motor insurance policy was cancelled.
What happened
Ms K took out insurance through Aviva and had a black box installed on her car. 
Unfortunately, Aviva cancelled her policy as it stopped getting any data from the black box 
on her car. It wrote out to her explaining that she needed to get in touch or ensure that data 
was being sent from her black box within seven days. And as neither things happened Aviva 
cancelled her policy.
As Ms K wasnt happy about this she complained to Aviva and asked for her policy to be 
reinstated. She explained that she had been in hospital having a baby and had been advised 
not to drive so there wasnt any data from the black box on her car. But Aviva didnt change 
its position and chased Ms K for the outstanding premium, so Ms K complained to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms K and partly upheld her complaint. She thought 
Aviva shouldve looked to reinstate Ms Ks policy when she called to explain that she hadnt 
been using the car or arranged alternative cover, waiving the remaining premium. And she 
also thought Ms K should only be charged pro-rata for her telematic fee (£150) but accepted 
that it was entitled to charge other fees. 
As Ms K didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Aviva took the action it did and looked to cancel Ms Ks policy. But I 
think it has produced an unfair outcome in the particular circumstances of this case. 
I say this as it isnt disputed that Ms K wasnt driving at the time, and had been told not to by 
her doctor, so that is why there wasnt any data from the black box on her car. And it is quite 
possible Ms K missed any communication around this time as she was in hospital or just 
trying to look after herself at a difficult time. Plus, I havent seen any evidence that Aviva 
made other efforts to contact Ms K which I would expect it to do given it was moving to 
cancel her policy. 
Either way, Aviva was fully aware of Ms Ks position when she called around the time of 
cancellation. It was clear there wasnt any issue with the collection of data from the car, it 
just simply wasnt being used. So I agree Aviva shouldve taken steps to help Ms K at that 
point in time and shouldve taken other steps to contact her before looking to cancel the 
policy in the first instance. 
As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Ms K to only be charged time on cover for her policy and only be charged pro-
rata for her telematic fee. She had made a claim on her policy so Aviva has chased for the 
remaining premium but that doesnt feel fair as Ms K didnt do anything wrong. So, it should 
simply charge Ms K for the portion of premium she used up until the point of cancellation and 
waive any cancellation fees.
Finally, I can see this has caused Ms K a great deal of stress and inconvenience both at the 
time, as she would have used her car when she was feeling better, and since as she has 
been chased for payment. So I think that she should be awarded £150 compensation. And 
Aviva should also ensure that any cancellation markers are removed and provide a letter 
explaining this to Ms K so the fact that she has had a policy cancelled doesnt affect her in 
the future.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to only charge Ms K for her time on cover, to pay her £150 compensation. It should 
also remove any cancellation markers and provide a letter of explanation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman