DRN-3198307
The complaint
Mr J complains that a finance agreement he had with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) was misrepresented to him.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the agreement should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr J. If he was told something that was false, and if that false statement 
of fact led him to enter into an agreement he would not otherwise have entered into, I would 
think the agreement had been misrepresented to him and Id ask VWFS to take some action.
Mr J says he was told a discount of three-monthly repayments would be deducted from the 
financed figure. He also says it was always his intention to redeem the arrangement after 
VWFS had made their three-month contribution to the finance.
I think it is most likely that Mr J believed that to be the case because:
He settled the agreement before his first payment was due and after VWFS had 
made their contributions under the three months free promotion.
He has provided evidence that he always had the funds available to do so and it 
therefore seems reasonable to suggest had he not been persuaded otherwise he 
would simply have settled the credit balance in full at the onset.
I dont think its likely Mr J would have entered into the agreement, which would have 
resulted in him paying substantially more than the amount being financed, when he 
could have paid in cash and did so later. 
I think its therefore most likely that the finance agreement was not explained properly to 
Mr J. 
  
Putting things right
In those circumstances the relevant legislation says we should endeavour to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been in had the agreement not been 
misrepresented to them.
The amount of credit provided after the deposit was taken into account was £23,190.16. Mr J 
says he was told three monthly payments would be deducted from this amount but, whilst I 
dont dispute he believed that, I havent seen evidence that was the case. The agreement 
was signed electronically by Mr J in September 2020 and explained that no payments would 
be required for the first three months. It would not make sense to refund them if the 
agreement was resettled early as Mr J would be benefitting twice.
Mr J has subsequently settled the agreement, but I dont think he should have had to have 
paid any interest for the period he had the car as he would not have had to pay that if the 
agreement hadnt been misrepresented. So, VWFS should refund any interest Mr J has paid 
over the first three months of the agreement and they should add 8% simple interest to that 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to refund any interest Mr J has paid over the first three months of the 
agreement and add 8% simple interest to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman