DRN-2362175
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund cash machine 
withdrawals she says she didnt make or allow anyone else to make. 
What happened
Between 6 April 2020 and 5 June 2020 16 cash withdrawals took place from Mrs Ds current 
account totalling £1,331.84. The cash machines used are ones which Mrs D has 
occasionally used to withdraw money in the past and all but one transaction took place at a 
shop local to Mrs D, which Ill call Shop K. 
When the complaint was initially brought to our service, Mrs D said she was shielding due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic and wasnt leaving the house other than for essential shopping. 
Since then, she has told us that she worked Monday to Friday 9am-5pm and only stopped 
working in December 2020. 
Mrs D has confirmed that during the time the disputed withdrawals took place she lived 
alone, was in possession of her debit card and hadnt shared her PIN with anyone.
Mrs D mentioned that since March 2020 she hadnt received any paper statements from 
NatWest and that she didnt have access to online banking or mobile banking, which is why 
she hadnt become aware of the transactions sooner. NatWest has confirmed that Mrs D 
wasnt registered for online banking. Mrs D said she only realised that the money was 
missing from her account on 7 June 2020 when she got a mini statement from a cash 
machine using her debit card. 
Upon noticing the transactions, Mrs D got in touch with NatWest to report what had 
happened. Mrs D also said once she had reported the transactions, she didnt receive any 
written communication about the claim and found NatWest to be rude.
NatWest investigated Mrs Ds concerns and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. 
The bank felt Mrs D had authorised the disputed withdrawals because the transactions were 
carried out via chip and PIN and there was no plausible explanation as to how someone else 
could have got hold of these items. Mrs D was unhappy with the banks position and made a 
complaint. 
On 9 June 2020 NatWest sent a final response to Mrs D via email explaining it was not 
upholding her complaint as there was no point of compromise. This letter referred to 
disputed transactions totalling £151.99. 
A second final response was emailed to Mrs D on 17 June 2020. This letter referred to a 
conversation with Mrs D on 16 June 2020 and addressed the additional information she 
provided to NatWest about cash machine withdrawals totalling £1331.84. NatWest explained 
the new information had been considered but the outcome remained the same. 
As NatWest had not agreed to refund the money, Mrs D referred her complaint to this 
service for a fresh look. One of our Investigators looked into Mrs Ds complaint and said the 
bank had acted fairly. In summary, he felt unable to conclude that the withdrawals had been 
made fraudulently and suggested they were more likely than not authorised by Mrs D. 
Mrs D didnt accept our Investigators outcome. She said the transactions on her account 
were unusual. She said this was not only due to the amount of withdrawals that took place, 
but also the time of day. Some of the withdrawals were made when she was shielding.
In a separate email Mrs D said that the withdrawals took place during the times she would 
have been at work and therefore the withdrawals couldnt have been made by her. 
Mrs D has also said that some transactions took place late at night and that no one could 
have entered her property and accessed her card without her knowledge as she has an 
alarm. 
The Investigator was not persuaded to change his view. He concluded that Mrs Ds 
testimony wasnt consistent around where she would have been at the time the withdrawals 
took place. He also said the transactions on her account were not unusual compared to her 
general withdrawal activity and were consistent with Mrs Ds average monthly withdrawals.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me.  
When I started to review the complaint, I undertook some further investigation. I asked the 
bank to provide more information about the transactions in dispute, including merchant 
information, location information and time data. The bank explained that contactless 
transactions can be processed and reconciled at a different time to when the customer 
actually made the transaction. The transaction history provided by the bank also showed that 
genuine transactions had taken place within seconds of some of the disputed withdrawals. 
For example, on 7 May 2020, at 20:24:25, an undisputed transaction for £12.50 takes place 
with the card present at a merchant, which Ill call N. Less than a minute later at 20:25:06 a 
disputed withdrawal of £51.99 was made at shop K for £51.99. 
The evidence I was able to gather about the timing of the transactions suggested it was 
more likely than not that Merchant N and shop K are linked and based at the same 
geographical location. I was able to establish that the registered owner of both businesses is 
the same person. I felt the available evidence strongly suggested there was a cash machine 
at the convenience store. 
We told Mrs D about my further investigation and what I had found out. She confirmed that 
she didnt have anything else to add to the case and had explained everything she could. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
In cases when there is a dispute about what happened, I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence.Theres lot of money involved in this dispute so I can understand Mrs Ds concern. But 
having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I think NatWest is 
entitled to hold Mrs D liable for the disputed withdrawals. I will explain why. 
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mrs D made the disputed transactions herself or 
authorised for them to be made on her behalf, it would not be fair to ask NatWest to refund 
them. But Mrs D has said that she did not make them herself and that she did not share her 
card and PIN with anyone else either. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs Ds genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable NatWest to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mrs D consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
 
Ive considered the options for whats most likely to have happened. These are that the 
withdrawals could have been made by an unknown third party, by someone known to Mrs D, 
or by Mrs D herself. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to 
conclude that Mrs D authorised the transactions. This is because:
To carry out the disputed withdrawals needed access to Mrs Ds card and PIN. Mrs D 
explained that she hadnt written her PIN down or shared it with anyone. Its clear that 
whoever carried out the transactions knew Mrs Ds PIN because there werent any incorrect 
PIN entries. Im unable to find a plausible explanation for how someone else would have 
known this information. It is also hard to see how anybody other than Mrs D could have 
carried out the spending when shes explained her card was always in her possession and 
no one else could have accessed it. 
Mrs D said she couldnt have carried out the transactions as she was shielding during the 
time the transactions took place. On a separate occasion, Mrs D said she was at work during 
the times the withdrawals took place. Mrs D said she could evidence that she was at work, 
however when requested, she didnt provide us with any further detail to consider. So I dont 
think all of what Mrs D has told us helps me to understand what potentially could have 
happened as some of her evidence contradicts. 
Having reviewed the transactions in dispute carefully, there are genuine transactions that 
take place very close in time to disputed transactions. Im not persuaded this evidence points 
to a third party being involved. I dont think its likely that anyone else could have 
successfully taken Mrs Ds card from her less than a minute after shed last used it herself, 
make a transaction and then return it to her before she left the location without her noticing.  
The pattern of withdrawals doesnt fit that of an opportunistic fraudster. At the time the 
disputed withdrawals started to take place, Mrs D had over £20,000 in her account. On 
getting hold of Mrs Ds card and PIN Id expect a fraudster to spend as much as they could 
and as quickly as possible. But this wasnt the case. The disputed withdrawals were typically 
for smaller amounts and were not the maximum that could have been withdrawn at the time, 
even though balance checks were carried out before some of the disputed withdrawals. 
In addition to this, between the first disputed withdrawal and Mrs D raising concerns about 
the transactions, there had been a total of 17 balance enquiries. Some of the balance enquiries were made immediately before undisputed withdrawals. So I think Mrs D would 
have noticed a discrepancy in her balance at an earlier point. 
The level of service NatWest provided
Mrs D mentioned that shed stopped receiving paper statements from the bank, however the 
available evidence shows that statements on her account were being produced monthly. 
Mrs D also said that she wasnt having any problems with her post and was receiving other 
post as per normal. 
I have listened to the calls that took place between Mrs D and NatWest when the 
transactions were reported. I am satisfied that NatWest were not rude and I consider the 
bank provided appropriate information about next steps. In particular, NatWest informed 
Mrs D that it was unable to uphold the claim and she should report it to the Police so they 
can investigate further.
Mrs D mentioned she hadnt received written communication about the fraud investigation or 
complaint after she reported it to the bank, however two final response letters were sent to 
Mrs D by email. The first letter was sent to Mrs D on 9 June 2020 and the second letter was 
sent on 17 June 2020. I do acknowledge that during the telephone call where Mrs D reported 
the transactions to NatWest, she told the adviser she had a new email address. The adviser 
wasnt able to update Mrs Ds email address over the phone and asked Mrs D to update it in 
branch. The letters were both initially sent to the email address which Mrs D no longer had 
access to, which was unhelpful. However, the letter dated 17 June 2020 refers to a 
conversation that took place between the bank and Mrs D on 16 June 2020 about the 
outcome of her complaint, so I am satisfied that Mrs D was aware of all key information. 
Overall
Having considered everything, Im as satisfied as I can be that the transactions were more 
likely than not made by Mrs D. And I think confusion in the communication between Mrs D 
and the bank has now been ironed out and did not cause her detriment. As such, I cannot 
fairly and reasonably require NatWest to take any further action in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman