DRN-3662801
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to only pay part of his claim.
What happened
Mr H had private medical cover with Aviva. He required prostate surgery and so claimed on 
his policy. Mr H said the insurer wont pay his claim in full despite knowing that its done so 
for other consumers. 
Aviva said that the treatment Mr H needed was called Nanoknife treatment and that it wasnt 
part of the regular treatment path. By that, it meant its not readily available to everyone as 
usual treatment. Instead, Aviva said Nanoknife is experimental. It considered Mr Hs claim 
against the experimental part of the policy and accepted it. Aviva said it wont pay the claim 
in full because the policy Mr H has only offered payment in part  thats to say there are 
limitations to the cover he has. It also said it wouldnt comment on other consumers 
circumstances where the same treatment may have been offered. 
Our investigator said Aviva had settled Mr Hs claim fairly because it did so within the policy 
terms. He said that the policy allowed Aviva to pay for his treatment up to the amount it 
wouldve paid for the most relevant approved treatment. He said that any amount left unpaid 
was for Mr H to settle personally. He also said that it wouldnt be appropriate to comment on 
other cases and that there would be too many variables in the level of cover that would 
impact other consumers claims. 
Mr H didnt accept this. In summary, he still wants Aviva to pay his claim in full and feels that 
hes being treated differently to other consumers. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I say that because Im satisfied that Aviva has 
already settled Mr Hs claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The claim made by Mr H was for prostate cancer treatment. The surgery he required wasnt 
approved, or recognised, as usual treatment for this condition. Aviva therefore correctly 
considered the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines and its 
position on his proposed treatment path. In summary, NICE said that the treatment wasnt 
part of the regular approach for this type of illness and so Aviva correctly categorised it as 
experimental treatment. 
Aviva has a set approach to experimental treatment as defined in its policy terms. And so, 
Ive considered how Aviva applied those terms in Mr Hs claim. To be clear, the terms say;
Experimental treatment
We do not cover experimental treatment, unless it meets the criteria set out below. We only 
pay for treatment that is:
 approved by European Medicines Agency (EMA) and Medicines & Healthcare products 
Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and is used within terms of its licence, or
 part of a nationally approved clinical guideline (The National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence or Scottish Intercollegiate Guidelines Network), or
 supported by best quality evidence (prospective randomised controlled trials that have 
been published in peer reviewed journals, independent of conflicts of interest and applicable 
to the members clinical condition), and offered by a specialist with documented evidence of 
positive clinical and patient reported outcomes within a hospital that is equipped with staff, 
equipment and processes to provide it. 
If your treatment meets these requirements, we will not exclude treatment on the basis that it 
is experimental. Before we can decide if your proposed treatment is eligible, we must receive 
all the clinical details we need from your specialist, including a completed Treatment 
Request Form. We must confirm your cover in writing before any treatment begins.
BUT:
Even if we consider your treatment to be experimental because it does not satisfy the 
requirements listed above, we will still pay for the lowest cost of either:
 the experimental treatment or
 the equivalent established treatment usually provided for your condition, if this is available
Aviva decided to cover some of the costs for Mr Hs Nanoknife treatment because it satisfied 
the above terms. However, the term also explains that itll only pay the lowest cost of the 
equivalent established treatment provided for Mr Hs condition. Aviva said the most relevant 
equivalent treatment was Robotic Prostatectomy and Ive not seen any persuasive medical 
evidence that successfully challenges that view. Mr Hs specialist also agreed with that 
categorisation. Aviva has, therefore, fairly considered Mr Hs claim against that term and Im 
satisfied its paid all associated costs of Mr Hs treatment within that limit. 
I accept that theres an outstanding balance payable for Mr Hs care, but for the reasons Ive 
explained, this isnt for Aviva to settle because its already paid towards those costs in 
conjunction with the policy terms. Mr H suggested that Aviva, in other similar cases, has 
settled the cost of treatment in full. But Im unable to comment on other claims that Mr H isnt 
involved with. Ive considered Mr Hs claim and I think Aviva has handled this fairly because 
its done so within the policy terms. 
Ive also seen evidence that Aviva told Mr H that any shortfall for the costs associated with 
the treatment wouldnt be Avivas responsibility to settle. It also reminded Mr H that it 
wouldnt accept any responsibility for any side effects he may experience. Its for these 
reasons I think Aviva shouldnt have to take any further action on Mr Hs complaint. 
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 Scott Slade
Ombudsman