DRN-3500334
The complaint
Mr S complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr S acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr S was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £400. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £23,607.
Mr S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and reviewing Mr S bank 
statements. It says Mr S was self-employed and so it reduced his income to reflect this tax 
obligations and this left a monthly income of around £3,275. It says it also considered Mr S 
expenditure and this didnt raise concerns. It noted there was adverse information on Mr S 
credit file but this was historic. Moneybarn didnt think it acted irresponsibly by providing the 
finance.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr S didnt agree and said that when he visited the showroom he was initially told he 
wouldnt get finance for the car he was considering. He looked at another car but was then 
told that finance would be provided for the first car even though he said he would struggle to 
make the repayments. He said that out of his income he had to pay other people around 
£500 a week therefore the agreement wasnt affordable.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before granting the finance, I thought Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr S about his ability to repay. I say this because it 
carried out a credit check and received copies of Mr S bank statements which 
showed both his income and expenditure. However, just because I thought it carried 
out proportionate checks, I said this didnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, I thought about what the evidence and information showed.
Mr S is self-employed and his income and expenses from his work go through is 
personal accounts. I looked through the bank statements in the months leading up to 
the agreement and these showed Mr S receiving income from various different 
parties as well as weekly working tax credits. Moneybarn explained that it considered 
Mr S income and then applied a deduction to account for his tax obligations. I didnt 
find this unreasonable and having looked through the information I thought the 
monthly income figure of around £3,275 was reasonable. However, given the nature 
of Mr S income and that the agreement was for five years I thought the variability of 
income needed to be considered as part of the assessment and potentially a larger 
buffer allowed to reflect this.
Given the size of the monthly repayments and the nature of Mr S income I thought a 
full review of his expenditure should have taken place to ensure the lending was 
affordable.
Mr S personal account was used for his business and so he had several expenses 
recorded and due to the nature of his work the amounts varied. However, in the 
months leading up to the agreement, Mr S business expenses (excluding cash 
payments) averaged at around £2,000. 
Mr S also made several cash withdrawals which he said were to make payments to 
labourers or suppliers. These were much lower in December but in November 2017 
and January 2018 were over £2,000. Taking the average gave around £1,856 and 
this supported Mr S comment that he was paying cash of around £500 a week for 
work related costs. 
Based on the evidence provided, Mr S average total of work related costs was 
around £3,850. This was higher than the amount Moneybarn had suggested was 
used for his income figure. 
Even taking a higher number for Mr S income of around £5,450 (that is without 
deducting anything for his tax payments), this would have left him with around £1,600 
once his busines expenses had been deducted. Mr S then had his personal 
expenses (including rent, fuel, food and other bills) and these totalled around £1,400. 
Therefore, after taking this into account he would not have had enough money to 
make the monthly repayments of £400. 
I also noted that there were returned direct debit payments recorded in Mr S 
statements in November 2017 and January 2018.
Based on the reasons set out above, I didnt think that the agreement was affordable, and I 
didnt think Moneybarn acted fairly when approving the finance application.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. Moneybarn confirmed it had nothing further to add in 
response to it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the checks carried out were reasonable 
however I think that had the information gathered been properly assessed Moneybarn would 
have realised that the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr S. As no new information was 
provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed, and I am 
upholding this complaint. Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Mr S has made, including any deposit. However, Mr S did have use of the car 
for around 18 months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of around £400 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would 
be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr S likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have been 
if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr S should pay is £225 for each 
month he had use of the car. This means Moneybarn can only ask him to repay a total of 
£4,050. Anything Mr S has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment.
Mr S agreement was terminated, and the car sold. I also understand that the debt was sold 
and so to settle this complaint, Moneybarn should either buy back the debt or ensure the 
following actions take place.
To settle Mr S complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund all the payments Mr S has made, less £4,050 for fair usage.
oIf Mr S has paid more than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr S has paid less than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once Moneybarn has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr S credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr S asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman