DRN-4278557
The complaint
The estate of Y complains about the administration of shares by Computershare Investor 
Services Plc (Computershare).
It says Computershare caused delays to the sale of the shares by putting up unnecessary 
obstacles and as a result it was caused distress and inconvenience. It also says it was 
caused financial loss because it had to instruct a solicitors firm to deal with the sales 
process and the value of the shares decreased by the time they were sold in May 2022.  
The estate also complains about poor customer service and says Computershare didnt act 
promptly or with compassion which made the process difficult for the estate.  
What happened
Mrs Y sadly passed away in November 2020.
On 26 November 2020 Computershare, having been notified of her death, sent a letter and 
bereavement information pack to one of the executors of the estate.  
That letter outlined three options of either holding, transferring, or selling the shares. It  
explained the steps required to sell the shares and that the sale could only take place once 
the death had been registered and the relevant documentation had been provided.
In February 2021 Computershare wrote to one of the executors and indicated that it couldnt 
proceed with the registration without the grant of representation and a certified sales form 
together with any share certificates if applicable. It then sent a second letter reiterating that it 
required a grant of representation. 
On 31 March 2021 the solicitors firm acting for the estate sent Computershare a copy of the 
grant of probate.
On 30 April 2021 Computershare wrote to the solicitors firm and indicated that it was unable 
to locate the shareholding from the information that had been provided. 
On 18 May 2021 the solicitors firm provided additional information about the shareholding to 
Computershare.
On 27 May 2021 Computershare sent an information letter and bereavement pack to the 
solicitors firm.
On 11 June 2021 a Deceased Estate Sales Service (DESS) form was received by 
Computershare, but the share certificates werent included. 
On 21 June 2021 Computershare wrote to the solicitors and indicated that the shares 
couldnt be sold until the death had been registered. It referred the firm to its bereavement 
pack for more guidance on how to do this.  
On 10 August 2021 the solicitors firm re-submitted the DESS form without the share 
certificates. 
On 17 August 2021 Computershare wrote to the solicitors acting for the estate confirming 
receipt of documentation on 11 August 2021.  It noted the records had been updated with 
the executors details and that the documents had been forwarded to The Share Centre to 
be processed. 
On 31 August 2021 the solicitors firm sent the DESS form but without the share certificates 
indicating that they werent available.
Computershare then reminded the solicitors firm that the original share certificates were 
needed and there was an exchange of correspondence about how the estate could proceed 
without those. 
On 13 September 2021 the solicitors firm requested a replacement certificate. 
On 14 September 2021 Computershare sent the letter of indemnity form to the solicitors 
firm to be completed.
On 16 September 2021 the solicitors sent the indemnity form to Computershare. 
On 4 October 2021 Computershare wrote to the solicitors acting for the estate and 
explained that in order for it to issue a duplicate share certificate, the indemnity form had to 
be signed by both executors. 
On 15 October 2021 the completed indemnity form was received by Computershare. 
On 21 October 2021 a new certificate was produced for the shares.
On 23 November 2021 the solicitors firm acknowledged receipt of the certificate and 
requested further clarification with regards to the process of selling the shares.
On 25 November 2021 Computershare responded and explained that the DESS form could 
be downloaded from its website. It also noted that the dealing service was changing in 
November 2021 and that it would be transitioning to a new provider.   
On 29 November 2021 the Share Centre ceased trading and a new service began. So, the 
forms issued in November 2020 were no longer valid.
In February and March 2022 there was an exchange of correspondence between the 
solicitors firm and Computershare regarding the sale process.
On 31 March 2022 one of the executors contacted Computershare to find out why the sale 
had not yet taken place. She explained that it had been extremely challenging to complete 
the process to sell the shares and she felt that all of the information had already been 
provided to Computershare. The executor also said it was very upsetting that she continued 
receiving correspondence in respect of the shares which contained her mothers name. 
Computershares representative explained that it had received some of the information and 
the new share certificate had been issued but it still required a completed DESS sales form. 
He said that they had to receive that form so that they had an instruction to sell the shares. 
He noted that a form had previously been provided in August 2021, but he said as that was 
an old form it was no longer valid. The representative said he would send a copy of the 
correct form to the solicitors firm, and to the executor. A form was sent to the solicitors firm 
on that day.
On 24 May 2022 the solicitors firm provided the completed form and documentation to 
Computershare.  
The sale of the shares was completed in May 2022.
The estate then complained to Computershare about how long it had taken to sell the shares 
given the late Mrs Y had passed away in November 2020.
Computershare didnt uphold the estates complaint. It said that each time it had received a 
request for information it had replied, and that it had given the estate information about the 
process in relation to selling the shares on several occasions. 
The estate referred its complaint to our service, and it was considered by our investigator. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator noted the 
time it had taken to administer the sale of the shares and acknowledged that this would have been frustrating and challenging for the executors of the estate. However, she didnt think 
that Computershare had acted incorrectly or caused the delay. 
The investigator said that Computershare had set out the requirements for the sale of the 
shares early on in the process and she was satisfied it had acted within the framework of its 
processes and requirements. She noted that once Computershare had been provided with 
all the correct information, in May 2022, it had processed the sale of the shares promptly.
The estate disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary it said that the 
timeframe taken to sell the shares was far too long. It said that Computershare hadnt 
contacted the estate when there was a problem but instead it had been forced to contact 
Computershare to find out what was happening. 
The estate said it felt that it was being blamed for what had happened and it was being 
implied that it was incompetent. It pointed out that it had been able to competently carry out 
all the various processes for the rest of Mrs Ys estate, but it said it had needed to instruct a 
solicitor to sell the shares because it said Computershare had made this process so difficult.
The estate said it had already provided the DESS sale form, but Computershare had then 
sent a new form and so it had been made to provide it again.
The estate said it had received poor customer service from Computershare and it had 
caused delays. It questioned why Computershare hadnt contacted the executors, if the 
solicitors firm hadnt provided all the required information.    
Computershare confirmed that once it had received correspondence from the solicitors firm 
acting on behalf of the executors, then it would communicate with that firm rather than the 
executors.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the late Mrs Y passed away in November 2020, one of the executors of the estate 
notified Computershare, who then issued her with some information about its process where 
the holder of the shares is deceased. 
That bereavement information pack gave guidelines about registering the death of an 
individual and the documentation that would be required. The documentation noted that if 
the estate exceeded the inheritance tax limit, then Computershare would need to be 
provided with a grant of representation, the form of which would depend on whether there 
was a valid will. 
The letter explained that if the estate was unable to locate some or all of the share 
certificates then it would need to send a written request for an indemnity. 
The information pack also set out a checklist as follows:   
Action Checklist 
Please make sure you can tick all the below boxes and return all additional forms if 
applicable. Please note, due to the volume of correspondence received by this service, we 
cannot hold onto incomplete submissions. Any incomplete submissions received by The 
Share Centre will be immediately returned.Registration
The death has been formally registered with the registrar and you have received written 
confirmation that the shareholding has been updated.
All sections of this form have been completed, including the fields requesting the deceaseds 
nationality and National Client Identifier (for example National insurance number, please see 
help sheet for further information).
You have enclosed two forms of identification for each Executor (please refer to the 
Confirming your identity section below).
All Executors have signed the declaration.
If the shares are held in paper certificate form, a Certificated Dealing Sales Instruction form 
has been completed for each holding and signed by all Executors. You have enclosed the 
form(s) and all related certificates.
As the estate has said, it has taken a significant amount of time from notifying 
Computershare of the death in November 2020, to the shares being sold in May 2022. 
Having considered the exchange of correspondence and telephone contact in this complaint, 
I think there were five different issues which delayed matters being progressed, which I will 
address in turn below.
Grant of representation
I consider that Computershare had to be satisfied that it was taking instructions from those 
who had authority to act on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs Y. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to either require documentary evidence that formally showed that 
authority, or a declaration that this was a small estate, before it took any actions in respect of 
the shares.   
I am satisfied that the circumstances in which it required a grant of representation were set 
out clearly in the letter and accompanying information it sent out on 26 November 2020. 
I note Computershare also noted in that correspondence:
Important information
If an original or official copy of the Death Certificate or Grant of Representation has not been 
submitted already, you will need to do so before we can start to formally register the death. 
Any mailings it is necessary to send will continue to be addressed to the registered holder 
until the formal death registration has been completed. For your information, an official copy 
is one that has been certified by either a solicitor or notary public.
This was reiterated in a letter sent to one of the executors on 17 February 2021 which 
explained why the registration had not yet been completed. It said:
We are unable to proceed with your registration and sales instruction at this time due to the 
following reason(s):
1. We would require a Certificated Sales Form to be completed and returned along with any 
share certificates (if applicable) which you can download from www.computershare.trade. 
These do not need to be enclosed for registration purposes but please note that we will not 
sell any shares until these documents have been received.
2. The Grant of probate or Small Estates Declaration has not been received by Investor 
Services at Computershare. In order to be eligible for the Deceased Estates Sales Service 
this step must be completed first. An original or an official copy needs to be sent to:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
XxxxxxxxxSo, I dont think Computershare acted unreasonably by requiring this legal documentation or 
that it delayed matters unnecessarily because I think this requirement was set out in the 
early stages of the process.  
Insufficient information provided to identify shareholding
In its letter of 26 November 2020 Computershare said:
As we act as Registrar for a large number of companies, it is not always possible to conduct 
a search of the registers based solely on a holder's name. In order to assist us to locate 
other holdings, please provide us with the name of the company or companies, in which the 
shares may be held. Alternatively, if you can provide us with a copy of a share 
certificate/statement, this will greatly assist us in locating any holdings.
So, I am satisfied that it was made clear at the outset that Computershare would require 
detailed information in order to locate the shares.
I am also satisfied that Computershare informed the estate that it needed further information 
and it specified the nature of the information it needed to locate the shareholding in its letter 
of 30 April 2021, where it said:
Holder identification
We're sorry but we have been unable to positively identify a shareholding from the 
information you have provided. As we act as Registrar for a large number of companies, it is 
not possible to conduct a search of the registers based on the information you have 
provided. To assist us in positively identifying a shareholding, please provide us with the 
following information:
 Shareholders full name including any joint holders
 Shareholder Reference Number (SRN)
 Full address
 Previous address details
 Name of the company in which the shares are held
 Copy of a share certificate or Nominee statement
 Copy of a tax voucher
If you can provide us with this additional information, it will help us to respond to your 
enquiry.
So, I dont think Computershare acted unfairly in requiring further information and I dont 
think it delayed matters unnecessarily because it had outlined at the outset that it would 
need detailed information to locate the shareholding. 
Share certificates not provided
I consider that Computershare made it clear that share certificates would need to be 
provided in the initial information it sent. This was then reiterated in information sent to the 
solicitors firm in May 2021. 
The share certificate is a part of the evidence demonstrating ownership of particular shares 
and the number of shares owned. So, I dont consider that was an unnecessary requirement 
from Computershare because the estate of the deceased was seeking to sell the shares.
I am also satisfied that Computershare set out this requirement clearly on several occasions, 
so I dont think it caused any unnecessary delay to the process. 
The indemnity form wasnt signed by both executorsAs the share certificates werent available the solicitors firm sent an indemnity form to 
Computershare in September 2021. Unfortunately, it was only signed by one of the 
executors, so Computershare wrote to the firm on 4 October 2021 and said:
Thank you for your recent communication.
To enable us to issue a duplicate certificate, please make sure that the attached indemnity is 
signed by both executors.
If you would like any more help, please call one of our dedicated customer service 
representatives on the telephone number shown at the top of this letter.
I think the purpose of asking all the executors to sign the document was to ensure that all 
those responsible for administering the estate were aware of the request for a duplicate 
certificate and agreed with that request. So, I dont consider this to be an unreasonable 
request 
The requirement for a new DESS form and the validity of previous forms provided.
I can appreciate that having spent some time going through this process and having already 
submitted a DESS form,  it would have been frustrating for the executors to then be informed 
that a new form was required. Computershares representative explained, in a phone call in 
March 2022, that this was because the old form issued in November 2020 was no longer 
valid. And Computershare has also explained that The Share Centre which issued the old 
form ceased trading in November 2021. 
I have listened carefully to that phone call where one of the executors contacted 
Computershare to clarify what was happening with the sale of the shares. She explained that 
as far as she was concerned all the information had already been provided. As I have 
mentioned, the executor was informed that the sales form that had been previously 
submitted was an old form, so it was no longer valid.  
I can see, from the point of view of the estate, that submitting a new form would have 
appeared to be repeating a step that it had already taken. 
I also note that any delay had a detrimental impact on the executors because they continued 
to receive correspondence which referred to their deceased relative and that was causing 
them some distress.  
However, I also take into account that the action checklist contained within the initial 
information explained that Computershare wouldnt hold onto incomplete submissions. That 
meant that when a form was rejected because something was missing or incomplete, a new 
form would need to be provided. So, I think once the new share certificate had been issued 
following receipt of the indemnity form, a new sales form wouldve been needed in any 
event. And I note that in its correspondence in November 2021 Computershare directed the 
estate to where that could be downloaded.  
I am also satisfied that new forms were then issued to the solicitors firm following the phone 
call in March 2022.  
I consider the decision, that part of the business would cease trading, was a commercial 
decision and not something therefore that falls within my remit here. I am satisfied however, 
that the correspondence Computershare sent in November 2021 indicated that there were 
going to be changes to the services it offered. 
It wasnt expressly stated in that letter that Computershare required a new form to be 
completed and I think it wouldve been helpful if it had set this out more clearly.  However, I 
think this was because it was a fairly generic letter setting out the services it offered.  
Having said that, I think that letter gave the estate information as to where the relevant form 
could be found on the website, and I think if the estate was unsure of what was still required, 
it could have contacted Computershare and spoken to one of its representatives, as one of the executors did in March 2022. I think that as Computershares website gave information 
about the upcoming changes to its dealing service, and the relevant form, it wouldnt have 
been too onerous to locate a new up to date form there.
Summary
I appreciate that the estate has been frustrated by the time it has taken for the sale of the 
late Mrs Ys shares to be administered. I also note that this would have been a distressing 
and upsetting time for Mrs Ys relatives, particularly when receiving correspondence 
containing her name. 
However, I think that information about what was required for the sale of the shares to take 
place, was set out by Computershare in the initial stages of the process. In addition, I  
consider that Computershare did respond to questions raised by the estate throughout the 
process. It also provided contact details for its customer representative service where further 
information and assistance could be found.  
It is unfortunate that various issues arose during the process where information was 
incomplete, and those matters halted the progress of the sale. 
I note the point raised by the estate questioning whether Computershare should have 
contacted the executors directly if there were outstanding items required for the sale of the 
shares. I think it was reasonable for Computershare to communicate directly with the 
solicitors firm because the firm was instructed by, and acting on behalf of, the estate.  
Overall, I think that Computershare was ultimately acting to ensure that the shares were 
correctly identified and the instructions it received were legitimate. So, I dont think that it 
was trying to obstruct or delay the process.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint brought by the estate of Y against 
Computershare Investor Services Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman