DRN-1971945
The complaint
Mr M and Ms R complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has refused to settle 
their claim under their contents policy fairly. They also complain about the poor customer 
service they received during their claim.
What happened
Mr M lost his wedding ring and made a claim through their contents insurance with Lloyds. 
He sent Lloyds an estimate from his original jeweller for a replacement costing £500.
Lloyds offered Mr M either a £500 voucher for use at its nominated jeweller, or a cash 
settlement of £175 to replace the ring elsewhere. It said the cash settlement is reduced 
because it gets a discount from its suppliers, as explained in its policy booklet. 
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the nearest
equivalent less any discounts available.
Lloyds said its nominated jeweller had confirmed that it is able to offer a like-for-like 
replacement for Mr Ms ring. 
Mr M said he found this very disappointing as the voucher is only valid at Lloyds nominated 
jeweller, instead of the jeweller where they bought the ring originally. Mr M said hed asked 
Lloyds to specify the section of the policy that denies them an equivalent cash settlement to 
use at the jeweller of their choice, but no one from Lloyds had been able to clarify this. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Lloyds offered Mr M a 
voucher to the value of his ring at its nominated jeweller. He said a commercial relationship 
between insurers and jewellers is common practice, is fair and in line with the policy. He said 
Lloyds doesnt insure sentimental value - only the items value and its nominated jeweller 
was offering an exact match. The investigator said the cash offer was correctly calculated, 
as the cost of the voucher to Lloyds is £325, minus £150 policy excess, leaving £175. 
Mr M disagreed, saying the policy term allows replacement of a ring as new if available and 
it is from his jeweller and so the or otherwise part isnt relevant. He said had Lloyds position 
been explained they wouldnt have taken the policy. He understood about sentimental value 
but wanted service from a family-owned firm including free after-care. He wanted to know 
where it states Lloyds dont have to replace an item from the original business, and where 
they dont have to offer the full value. Mr M requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at the policy and the decisions taken by Lloyds on Mr Ms claim to see if it 
has treated him fairly. I have decided that it has, and I will explain my reasons here.
Policies such as Mr Ms include a term which sets out how the insurer will settle a claim. In 
this case the relevant term states, We can either repair or replace any item or make a 
money payment instead. This is known as a subrogation term and it gives the insurer the 
authority to reach a decision on how a claim should be settled. 
It may seem unfair to Mr M that he doesnt have a choice about using his preferred jeweller 
at the same value, but we dont think this is unreasonable in principle  the insurer is paying 
for the claim, and so its fair that it decides how the claim will be settled and, as a result, how 
much it costs. It follows that the amount the insurer offers the policy holder as a cash 
alternative will usually be the amount it would have paid to replace the item through its 
nominated jeweller, at a discount. This amount, after deduction of the policy excess, is what 
Lloyds has offered to Mr M and Ms R.
We might still say the application of this term is unreasonable where the policy holder isnt 
put back in the position they were in prior to the damage or loss. In other words, we expect 
to see the policy holder has been indemnified for their loss. In considering this point I have 
seen that the ring offered by Lloyds nominated jeweller is an exact match to the one Mr M 
lost. And so I think he has been indemnified by Lloyds offer of a voucher to cover his loss.
Mr M said the second part of the policy term; We will pay the cost of replacement as new if 
available or otherwise the nearest equivalent less any discounts obtainable, allows 
replacement of his ring as new if available. He said that as it available from his preferred 
jeweller, the or otherwise... part of the term is not relevant in this case. This might be the 
case without the subrogation term that precedes this, but has to be read as following on from 
Lloyds authority to settle the claim as it chooses.
Mr M wanted to know where in the policy it states that Lloyds dont have to replace the 
object from its original place of purchase or offer the full value of the object if not replacing 
from the original company. Insurance policies dont set out every eventuality that may occur 
and generally state what the insurer will do to settle a claim. 
Mr M mentioned the service enhancement he would get from his preferred jeweller. 
Unfortunately, this isnt an insured service and so we cannot take this into consideration in 
deciding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman