DRN-3761041
The complaint
Mr K has complained that he was mis-sold a Retirement Account by Scottish Widows 
Limited and was given mis-leading financial advice and information by them. 
What happened
Mr K held a Group Personal Pension (GPP) with Scottish Widows. 
Mr K received a letter from Scottish Widows in mid-July 2017 which said that after reviewing 
his GPP they believed that they could reduce the charges that he was paying on his 
pension. This would involve transferring his GPP to a Scottish Widows Retirement Account. 
Scottish Widows also said that a Retirement Account would give Mr K access to all pension 
freedoms when he came to take his retirement benefits, without having to move to another 
plan. 
The letter went on to explain that Scottish Widows would soon give Mr K a telephone call to 
discuss this in more detail and to explain the options and benefits available to him.
Mr K did subsequently receive a telephone call from Scottish Widows and following from this 
discussion he decided to transfer his GPP to a Scottish Widows Retirement Account.
Scottish Widows then wrote to Mr K on 1 August 2017 to confirm that they had contacted 
him by telephone to discuss his GPP and that Mr K had decided to proceed with transferring 
his GPP to a Retirement Account. Scottish Widows also said that Mr Ks new Retirement 
Account would be invested in the same way as his GPP.
Mr Ks GPP was invested in the Scottish Widows Cash fund, Pension Portfolio Four fund 
and Pension Protector series 2 fund. In Mr Ks new Retirement Account the investment in 
Scottish Widows Pension Protector series 2 fund was replaced with the Pension Protector 
series 4 fund. His investment in the Cash and Pension Portfolio Four fund were not changed.
On 1 August 2017 Scottish Widows sent Mr K a Keyfacts illustration for his new Retirement 
Account. This illustration told Mr K that the investment in his Retirement Account was 
Balanced - targeting annuity 100%. The illustration also said that the investment funds held 
by Mr K were split 18.75% in Scottish Widows Cash fund, 25% in Scottish Widows Pension 
Portfolio Four fund and 56.25% in Scottish Widows Pension Protector fund.
The illustration also said: As you have chosen to invest your plan in the Balanced - targeting 
annuity Governed Investment Strategy, the funds your plan invests in may change as you 
near retirement.
On 3 August 2017 Scottish Widows wrote to Mr K to thank him for choosing a Retirement 
Account and sent him his Retirement Account Policy Provisions and his Policy Schedule.
When Mr K completed the switch of his pension to a Retirement Account in August 2017, the 
plan value was approximately £256,000. By the end of July 2021 the value of Mr Ks 
retirement Account had increased to approximately £320,000. At that time Mr Ks Retirement 
Account was invested in the Scottish Widows Cash fund and Pension Protector series 4 
fund. There was no longer any holding in the Scottish Widows Pension Portfolio Four fund.
Mr K says that he checked the value of his Retirement Account in mid-June 2022 and noted 
that the value had fallen. In August 2022 Scottish Widows sent Mr K an annual statement for 
his Retirement Account. This statement showed that the value of Mr Ks Retirement Account 
at the end of July 2022 was approximately £250,000. As a result of this fall in value Mr K 
decided to move the investment of his pension to a Scottish Widows control account in 
June 2022.
Mr K was unhappy about this fall in the value of his pension. He complained to Scottish 
Widows about this. He has said that the fall in value was from his investment in the Scottish 
Widows Pension Protector series 4 fund. 
Mr K has also said that when he had his telephone call with Scottish Widows in 2017, he had 
told them that he was a very cautious investor and did not want to risk his pension losing too 
much value. Mr K also said that he was assured by the Scottish Widows representative that 
he spoke to that the funds he was transferring into were very conservative and that 
fluctuations in value would be minor and without any significant drops in value. 
Scottish Widows didnt accept Mr Ks complaint. They said that when they had contacted   
Mr K and offered him the opportunity to move his GPP to a Retirement Account, the choice 
was based on a comparison of the charges on his GPP versus the Retirement Account. 
Scottish Widows have said that Mr K has saved costs of approximately £800 a year by 
moving his GPP to a Retirement Account.
Scottish Widows also said that the Pension Protector series 2 and 4 funds are mirrored 
funds meaning that the underlying investments across the two funds were the same, and 
therefore the same fluctuation in value would have happened across all series of the 
Pension Protector fund. This meant that Mr K would have seen the same fall in value if he 
had still been invested in his GPP.
Scottish Widows also said that they only gave Mr K information in July 2017, so that he 
could make an informed decision about a possible transfer to a Retirement Account. They 
said that they didnt give him any financial advice. Scottish Widows also said that they would 
not notify customers about their fund dropping in value and it would always be the customers 
responsibility to maintain their pension.
Mr K didnt accept Scottish Widows response and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
An Investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service reviewed Mr Ks complaint and 
concluded that during their telephone conversation in 2017, Scottish Widows had provided 
Mr K with sufficient relevant information for him to make his own decision as to whether he 
wanted to switch pension accounts. The Investigator was also satisfied that the investment performance of Mr Ks Retirement 
Account wouldve been the same as his GPP, as the underlying assets of the Pension 
Protector series 2 and 4 funds were the same. 
Mr K didnt agree with the Investigators view. Mr K replied to say his complaint to Scottish 
Widows wasnt just him being unhappy about the investment performance of his Retirement 
Account. Mr K says that Scottish Widows misled him because they told him that the Pension 
Protector fund was very cautious with only minor fluctuations in value.
As Mr K didnt agree with the Investigators view, he asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scottish Widows have said that they contacted Mr K in July 2017 as they believed that he 
could save on annual charges if he switched his GPP to a Retirement Account. 
Mr Ks Scottish Widows GPP was invested in three funds, one of which was the Pension 
Protector series 2 fund. Once he had completed the switch to his Retirement Account, he 
was invested in the Pension Protector series 4 fund in place of the series 2 fund. Mr K has 
complained about the drop in the value in his Retirement Account between July 2021 and 
June 2022, when his Retirement Account was invested in the Scottish Widows Cash fund 
and Pension Protector series 4 fund. He has said that the fall in the value of his pension is 
due to his investment in the Pension Protector series 4 fund.
Ive seen factsheets for both the Pension Protector series 2 and 4 funds from May 2022. The 
information contained in the factsheets includes details on the funds investment aim as well 
as asset allocation and the funds top ten holdings. The information in the series 4 factsheet 
is identical to the information set out in series 2 factsheet. I therefore think that the funds 
were being invested in the same way.
The factsheets also set out details of past performance of the funds. This shows that both 
discrete and cumulative past performance of the series 4 fund is better than the series 2 
fund. I think it likely that this difference is due to the lower charges applying to the series 4 
fund, rather than there being any difference in the way that the funds are invested.
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr K in August 2017 to confirm the details of the telephone 
conversation that Mr K had with them. The letter stated: You decided to proceed with 
transferring your existing plan to our Retirement Account. We have mapped your investment 
choice to its equivalent in Retirement Account. This means you will remain in the same 
investment choice.  
The letter went on to say: You could have sought financial advice, which would have 
provided you with recommendations based on your personal circumstances. A charge would 
usually apply for the advice. We made it clear that we have not provided you with advice. We 
have provided you with information and you have decided on the best course of action for 
your circumstances.
I therefore think that Scottish Widows were telling Mr K that his Retirement Account would 
be invested in the same way as his GPP and that they had not provided Mr K with any 
financial advice, they had only given him information, during their telephone call. Also, if Mr 
K had wanted to receive financial advice, then he could have arranged to do so, but he didnt.
No recording of Mr Ks telephone conversation with Scottish Widows in July 2017 is 
available. To try and gauge how the conversation might have progressed, I have had sight of 
the suggested word patterns slides that were available to representatives of Scottish 
Widows at the time of the telephone call. I have therefore reviewed these as I think that they 
can provide an indication of the comments that the Scottish Widows representative likely 
would have made to Mr K at that time.
The suggested words for the beginning of the call do include an explanation that the 
representative cannot provide advice and that they will be able to provide information on a 
customers Scottish Widows plan, its features and the options available. This is consistent 
with the information set out in Scottish Widows letter to Mr K following their telephone call.
In relation to investment risk, the suggested words do point out that with any investment fund 
there is the risk that the value of a customers plan will go up and down in value. There is 
also suggested words if a customer isnt changing their investment funds within their 
Retirement Account. This says that when Scottish Widows are proposing to move a 
customer to the same fund within their Retirement Account then they wont see any 
difference to the fund movement compared to their existing GPP.
As Mr K was retaining the same investment choice that he had within his GPP then I think 
that these suggested words are reasonable. Also, the fund factsheets that Ive seen confirm 
that series 2 and 4 of Scottish Widows Pension Protector Fund were invested in the same 
way.
I note that there is further suggested wording for customers in PIA funds  being mapped to 
GIS equivalent. 
The wording says Depending on the retirement outcome you have selected  you may find 
that in the last 5 years before your retirement date that the charges will be more than Ive 
quoted above  The reason for this is that we gradually switch to lower risk funds.
I think that this suggested wording wouldve applied to Mr K. At the time of the telephone call 
he was a little over a year away from his normal retirement date. Mr K was also invested in 
Pension Investment Approach (PIA) funds within his GPP and was being moved to a 
Governed Investment Strategy (GIS) within his Retirement Account. Scottish Widows have 
said that the Governed Investment Strategy was the same as the Pension Investment 
Approach applied under Mr Ks GPP.
Scottish Widows sent Mr K a valuation for his GPP in November 2016. This showed Mr Ks 
pension investments at that time were split between Scottish Widows Pension Protector 
fund, Cash fund and their Pension Portfolio Four fund. 
The valuation went on to say We will start to switch your fund(s) across to the Pension 
Protector fund 5 years from your retirement age. We will start to switch your fund(s) across 
to the Cash fund 5 years from your retirement age. 
I think this is referring to a strategy more commonly referred to as life styling, where ahead 
of an investors normal retirement date their investment funds are typically moving away 
from equity investments to fixed interest and cash investments. I think that the above 
suggested wording is referring to this process. In November 2016 Mr Ks GPP was invested 15.4% in the Cash fund, 46% in the Pension 
Protector fund and 39% in the Pension Portfolio Four fund. By the time that he had switched 
to his Retirement Account, his pension was invested split 18.75% in Scottish Widows Cash 
fund, 56.25% in Scottish Widows Pension Protector fund and 25% in Scottish Widows 
Pension Portfolio Four fund. I think that this indicates that the funds that Mr Ks pension was 
being invested in were being moved from the Pension Portfolio four fund into the Cash and 
pension Protector funds. 
I therefore think that if the Scottish Widows representative had followed this suggested 
wording during his telephone call with Mr K in 2017, which I think he would have done, he 
was referring to this process only. I dont think that he wouldve been telling Mr K that the 
Pension Protector fund is low risk, or that it will only have minor fluctuations in value. I also 
dont think that this is saying that the Pension Protector fund is suitable for a very cautious 
investor. Instead, I think that he would only be referring to the Pension Investment 
Approach/Governed Investment Strategy.
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr K in May and October 2018 to inform him that he was 
approaching his normal retirement date and to ask how he wanted to draw his retirement 
benefits. 
Mr K didnt respond to these letters so Scottish Widows wrote to him again in 2019 to explain 
that they had extended his normal retirement age from 65 to 75. Scottish Widows also told 
Mr K that as they hadnt received any response from him, then the Governed Investment 
Strategy would no longer apply to his Retirement Account. Instead, Mr K would remain 
invested in the funds that he held at that time.  
I dont think that Scottish Widows were responsible for monitoring or reviewing the 
investment of Mr Ks pension plan. Instead, all investment decisions were made by Mr K. I 
therefore think that as Mr K had decided not to draw his pension at age 65 and had been 
told by Scottish Widows that the Governed Investment Strategy was no longer applying to 
his pension, then he could have changed the way in which his Retirement Account was 
invested, to fit in with his new selected retirement date, if he had wanted.  However, Mr K 
continued to hold these funds through to June 2022.  
I therefore havent seen any evidence to show that Scottish Widows gave Mr K any financial 
advice when Mr K switched his GPP to his Retirement Account. I also havent seen any 
evidence to show that Scottish Widows ever told Mr K that the investment strategy that was 
applying to his GPP was suitable for him, or that they ever gave him any financial advice on 
setting up the investment strategy within his GPP. I think it more likely that that the 
investment strategy being applied through Mr Ks GPP was put in place when he became a 
member of the GPP through his former employer.
I have also seen no evidence to show that Scottish Widows told Mr K that his existing 
investment strategy was suitable for his stated very cautious approach to investment risk. 
Instead, I think that all Scottish Widows did was to mirror the investment approach that he 
had been taking in his GPP across to his new Retirement Account, whilst providing Mr K with 
information at the time, so that he could make an informed decision. 
If Mr K had thought that this investment approach was no longer right for him then I think that 
he could have instructed Scottish Widows to change his investment funds. Mr K was told in 
2019 that the Governed Investment Approach would no longer apply to his pension, but 
again chose to keep the investment of his Retirement Account unchanged.
Finally, I dont think that its reasonable to have expected Scottish Widows to contact Mr K to 
tell him that his Retirement Account was falling in value. Scottish Widows were the administrators of Mr Ks Retirement Account and were not his adviser. I therefore think that it 
was Mr Ks responsibility to monitor the investment performance of his plan.
I dont think that Scottish Widows have acted unreasonably or unfairly and I am therefore not 
upholding Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint against Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman