DRN-1456543
 
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with her insurers UK Insurance Limited (UKI), who have declined her claim 
under her home emergency cover for a leaking shower. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs F contacted UKI to report a leak from her shower. An engineer came out 
and couldnt find the source of the leak but saw evidence of water damage. The engineer 
noted that the leak only happened when the shower was in use and advised Mrs F not to 
use the shower. The engineer advised Mrs F to contact UKI to see if she was covered for 
further work.  
Mrs F contacted UKI and was told that the claim would be declined for two reasons.  First, 
the shower only leaked when it was on. Second, she had alternative washing facilities 
namely a bath and so it couldnt class the claim as an emergency. 
Mrs F was unhappy with its decision and brought the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found that UKI acted fairly in declining it.  
He said that UKI were right in not classing this as an emergency as Mrs F did have separate 
facilities to use and hadnt suffered total loss of hot and cold water.  
Mrs F didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I will now give my reasons why.
In considering this complaint I have considered the evidence available to UKI to see if it 
made a fair decision in denying categorising this as an emergency.  
Mrs F had originally taken out this policy in 2006 and each year she had renewed the policy. 
UKI has said that the terms of the policy havent changed from 2006 to the claim date.  
UKI defines an emergency in the policy as:
An incident in the home occurring during the period of membership, which if not dealt with 
quickly will:
(a) make the home unsafe or insecure for its occupants; or(b) cause damage to the home and its contents; or
(c) leave the home with a total loss of its main source of heating, lighting or hot or cold 
water
Mrs F confirmed that the leak was only evident when the shower was in use. By not using 
the shower, her home was no longer unsafe. If it had been the case that the only means of 
bathing was the shower, then I think a claim under the policy would be successful. But Mrs F 
accepted that she had a bath which she could use and she wasnt without hot or cold water, 
this couldnt amount to an emergency.  
I sympathise with Mrs F for the problems she faced in dealing with her shower, but I think 
that UKI acted fairly when it declined the claim and I cant ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman