DRN-4001785
The complaint
The estate of Ms J complains that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited didnt freeze the interest 
on a lifetime mortgage after Ms J died. It says that Covid-19 caused delays in preparing the 
property for sale. The estate has also complained about buildings insurance that was 
arranged by Aviva after Ms J passed away, the premium for which was added to the 
mortgage debt.
Mrs P is representing the estate.
What happened
Mr J and Ms J applied for a lifetime mortgage with Aviva in 2003. When Mr J passed away 
the lifetime mortgage continued in Ms Js sole name until she passed away in October 2019.
Mrs P has said that she began preparations to clear the house in January 2020, but then 
when Covid-19 hit in March 2020 she needed to shield so she lost over a year.
In November 2020 Aviva asked Mrs P if the property was insured, and she was unsure. As it 
didnt receive proof the property was insured by the end of February 2021 it arranged a 
policy with effect from 1 March 2021. The premium for the policy was added to the mortgage 
debt. That policy was renewed on 1 March 2022 for a further year, with the premium again 
being added to the mortgage debt.
The property went on the market in June 2021 and was sold on 18 March 2022, redeeming 
the Aviva mortgage. Aviva refunded £336 post-completion, which was a rebate for the 
unused element of the annual buildings insurance policy that it had arranged.
One of our investigators looked into things and said she didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly 
in not freezing the interest or in arranging and charging for a buildings insurance policy for 
the property.
The estate of Ms J didnt accept our investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman 
decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust the estate of Ms J wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome
I hope Mrs P will accept my condolences for her loss. Ive a great deal of sympathy for the 
position she was in, losing her mother and then dealing with the estate during uncertain 
times. Things cant have been easy for her.
What I have to consider is whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
And if not, consider whether the estate has suffered a loss as a result.
The terms of a lifetime mortgage mean consumers dont make any monthly repayments, but 
instead interest accrues on the loan until the property is sold.
The starting point in deciding this complaint is that the terms of the mortgage allowed Aviva 
to charge interest until the property was sold, so it was entitled to do so.
Whilst our service investigates complaints against businesses, we are not the regulator and, 
as such, were unable to implement wider industry changes. That is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
The estate of Ms J feels that more should have been done to provide support during the 
Covid-19 pandemic. It doesnt feel interest should have accrued as it says the process to 
prepare the property for sale was impacted due to circumstances outside of its control.
The estate has said the delays were outside of its control; that is, the time it took to sell the 
property and redeem the mortgage wasnt its fault. But equally the fact matters couldnt be 
progressed wasnt Avivas fault either. I can only uphold a complaint if Im satisfied a 
business has done something wrong, I cant order it to make a gesture of goodwill or order it 
to freeze the interest when it did nothing wrong in continuing to charge it.
Under the terms of the mortgage, the estate had twelve months  from the date Ms J passed 
away  to redeem the mortgage. By the time of the first Covid-19 lockdown five months of 
that time had already passed, so one would have expected at that stage the property to have 
already been fully prepared for sale, probate to have been obtained, and for the property to 
be on the market. That would then have allowed seven months for a sale to be agreed and 
to complete. This means that Covid-19 shouldnt have interfered with the process, as the 
parts that required Mrs P to be at the property should reasonably have already been 
completed by the time of the first lockdown.
Despite the property not being prepared before she needed to shield, that still doesnt 
explain why matters couldnt be progressed even whilst Mrs P was shielding. For the stage 
of sorting through to decide what to keep and what should be cleared, Mrs P wouldnt have 
needed anyone else to be present in the property. Once shed sorted through the property 
and decided what could be cleared, then she could have arranged either for a skip to be 
delivered, or for a house clearance company to clear certain areas, without needing contact 
with any other party as by then businesses were operating within Covid-19 guidelines  with 
extra protection for those people shielding. 
In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, on 20 March 2020 the FCA released specific 
guidance for lenders with regards to mortgages. This guidance didnt extend to equity 
release mortgages. In situations where the guidance did apply, payment deferrals were 
offered to borrowers but interest on mortgages would still accrue. So, Aviva refusing to 
suspend interest charged during this period, doesnt go against the guidance released by the 
FCA.
The estate may feel its request is perfectly reasonable, and it may be. But equally Avivas 
decision not to accede to that request is also perfectly reasonable as it simply didnt have to 
agree to it.In view of all that and as interest has been applied in line with the agreement that Mr J and 
Ms J accepted, I dont consider that Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances.
Ive carefully considered the point the estate of Ms J has raised about the insurance that was 
arranged by Aviva and charged to the mortgage account. Mrs P has said that she didnt 
receive all the emails from Aviva. That is unfortunate, but as our investigator explained, this 
point doesnt turn on that.
In November 2020 Mrs P was asked if the property was insured and she said she didnt 
know. But she didnt go back to Aviva either with a copy of a policy (if it was insured, or that 
she had subsequently arranged) or to confirm there was no insurance in place. 
Mrs P says she didnt receive the emails of 13 November and 14 December 2020, or those 
of 11 January and 11 February 2021. However she says she did receive the emails of 2 
February 2021 (which had the email trail including the November to January emails) and of 
1 March 2021 (which also included the 11 February email). In addition the email of 
11 February was also copied to Mrs Ps solicitor and on that date a copy of the 13 November 
email (plus all the documents referred to) was posted to Mrs P at home.
In Mrs Ps email of 7 February 2021 (in response to the email of 2 February) she said that 
she was uncertain if the property was insured. So it seems shed not done anything about 
that matter in the time since the call of November 2020, and as Ms J had died in October 
2019 it seems unlikely the property was insured as otherwise a renewal notification would 
have been sent in that 16 month period.
Aviva responded on 11 February (copying in Mrs Ps solicitor) saying that if it didnt receive 
confirmation by the end of February that the property is insured, then it would arrange 
insurance itself and charge the costs of that to the mortgage account.
Mrs P said she didnt receive that email, however she did receive a copy of it on 1 March as 
part of the email trail when Aviva said it had now arranged for the property to be insured.
So we know that by 1 March 2021 at the very latest Mrs P was aware that Aviva had 
arranged an insurance policy and charged the cost of that to the mortgage account, but she 
still didnt either provide proof the property was already insured or ask Aviva if that could be 
cancelled and she arrange her own policy. Instead the policy continued and was then 
renewed a year later on 1 March 2022.
As Mrs P took no action about arranging her own insurance at any time between her 
receiving the email on 1 March 2021 and the property being sold on 18 March 2022 then I 
dont think Aviva did anything wrong in having put its own insurance in place and charging 
the costs of that to the mortgage account. If Mrs P had, at any time, arranged her own 
insurance for the property then Aviva would have cancelled its policy and refunded any 
rebate upon cancellation to the mortgage account.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage account require the property to be insured and, 
having considered everything, Im satisfied Aviva didnt act inappropriately when it arranged 
its own insurance policy and charged the costs of that to the mortgage account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms J 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman