DRN-3664161
The complaint
Mr G complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited were unreasonable in their rejection of his 
home insurance claim. He also says their contractors caused additional damage during their 
inspection.
What happened
Mr G has a home insurance policy with Fairmead and he claimed for damage that had been 
caused by an escape of water in August 2021. He says a family member had left the shower 
running and this had led to tiles coming off the walls and subsequent damage to carpets and 
rooms below.
Fairmead rejected Mr Gs claim on the basis of a policy exclusion which stated:
THIS INSURANCE EXCLUDES:-
dd) Loss or damage caused by the escape of water due to a failure of or lack of sealant 
and/or grout
Mr G didnt agree that was fair. He provided a photo of some grouting which he said was in 
good condition. Fairmead maintained their rejection of the claim, so Mr G asked us to look at 
the matter.
An investigator here did that, but they agreed Fairmead had acted fairly based on their 
contractors report. And they didnt think there was sufficient evidence of their contractors 
causing damage to the living room ceiling.
Mr G disagreed, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but having done so I cant uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
As is the case in many insurance claims, the insurer will instruct contractors to assess the 
damage to help determine whether or not the loss is covered. In this case, Fairmead asked 
some leak detection specialists to carry out an inspection. And they said:
Testing of the shower enclosure found leaking water from failed grouting and defective 
seals; the shower being left on would not cause failed grouting and seals that easily.
The report contains photographic evidence which supports this. And that means it was 
reasonable for Fairmead to reject the claim on the basis they did. Although that isnt to say 
the report cant be questioned or challenged.
Mr G provided his own photographic evidence which I accept appears to show some 
grouting in reasonable condition. But that alone doesnt disprove the findings of the leak 
detection specialists, and it isnt enough for me to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I consider it reasonable to say that leaving a shower raining against the tiles ought not lead 
to them starting to fall off  unless there was already some sort of failing or defect. I also 
note theres a telephone call note in which Mr G is recorded as having said grout possibly 
not up to scratch. So, despite Mr Gs concerns, Fairmead werent unreasonable.
Ive also considered Mr Gs explanation that the leak detection specialists caused damage to 
his living room ceiling. He says they accepted that to be true at the time and had taken 
photos, which they said theyd include in their report  but were not included. And they have 
since said they arent responsible.
Mr G has provided an email from his decorator in which he says he completely redecorated 
the living room in November 2020, and that there is now a water stain present which wasnt 
there when the job had been completed. While I appreciate that demonstrates the room was 
in good decorative order at that time, it doesnt automatically follow that any damage which 
has since occurred was caused by the leak detection specialists.
So, this appears to be Mr Gs word against theirs and Im not sufficiently persuaded by his 
testimony that I can conclude them to have been responsible.
Overall, while I appreciate how strongly Mr G feels about this matter, I just havent seen 
enough to be able to find in his favour.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman