DRN-4263932
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M are unhappy with the service provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
when dealing with a claim under their home emergency insurance policy. 
Mrs M and Mr M are both parties to this complaint. Mr M has primarily dealt with this service. 
For ease of reference I have referred to Mr M throughout this final decision. 
What happened
Mr M took out a home emergency insurance policy underwritten by IPA. The home 
emergency insurance policy included the following definition:
Emergency
A result of a sudden and unforeseen event at the home that, if not
dealt with quickly will:
1. expose you or anyone else in the home to a health risk or
2. cause a risk of or loss of or damage to the home and or any of
your belongings or
3. render the home uninhabitable.
The What your policy covers section explained the following would be covered:
-A leak from the internal gas supply pipe in your home between the meter and a gas 
appliance. We will repair or replace the section of pipe, following the isolation of the 
gas supply by the National Gas Emergency Service. Please contact your Utility 
Company for restoration of gas supply who will be able to arrange this for you 
-Complete failure or breakdown of your primary heating / hot water system resulting 
in no hot water and/or heating.
In March 2023 Mr M called his gas company (company C) to report a gas leak. Company C 
cut all gas supply to Mr Ms home. Mr M contacted IPA to report what had happened. IPA 
arranged for one of their engineers to investigate. 
The notes recorded from the engineers attendance stated Dismantled fire to access gas 
controls Spoken to customer, advised him that I couldn't locate any leak. I have capped 
gas run to gas fire as a precaution. Tightness test again was ok. Customer will now need a 
rerun to the gas fire. Gas supply back on, customer now has heating and hot water. Warning 
placed on fire as coals are damaged.
Later that same day a representative from IPA contacted Mr M and explained that no further 
work would be provided under the terms of the policy. Mr M disagreed saying that the policy 
terms say IPA will will repair or replace the section of pipe. Mr M was also told the policy is 
designed to cover a state of emergency. Because Mr M has access to central heating and 
hot water, the policy wouldnt provide any further cover. 
Mr M complained to IPA about the way theyd dealt with his claim, specifically not paying for 
the replacement pipe needed to reinstate the supply of gas to his gas fireplace. IPA didnt 
offer anything in settlement of the complaint. 
Unhappy with IPAs response, Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
service for investigation. The investigator found that the service provided by IPA was 
reasonable. This was because the home emergency had been resolved in line with what the 
policy was designed to do. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. Mr M said The policy is very clear, capping the 
supply to an appliance is not referred to as a possibility within the policy. If a qualified 
engineer from IPA revisits and concludes that there is not a gas leak, I would kindly request 
that the supply to the gas fire is re-connected
IPA didnt respond to the investigators findings. As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has 
been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
similar reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mr Ms policy was intended to provide emergency cover. So a claim under this policy would 
result in repairs to prevent an emergency situation from escalating. The main point of dispute 
in this complaint is whether there was a gas leak that IPA failed to repair in line with the 
policy terms. 
Mr M feels strongly that there was a gas leak, and IPAs engineer didnt repair or replace the 
section of pipe which has left him without gas supply to the fireplace in his lounge. When 
evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or both) I have to make a finding on the balance of 
probabilities. That is what I find is most likely to have happened in view of the available 
evidence and wider circumstances. 
The evidence supports that the engineer took reasonable steps to establish whether there 
was a gas leak, and the source of it. The notes recorded from the engineers attendance 
stated Dismantled fire to access gas controls. Tightness test with cap in showed no stop, 
meter ok. Removed disc, 0 drop either, sprayed ldf on gas controls and tightened any nuts 
and test points. Performed another tightness test, still no drop checked all visible 
pipework, ensured gas valve at fire was shutting off. Still no drop in gauge or analyser.
Following these steps, the notes recorded that Mr M was informed advised him that I 
couldn't locate any leak. I have capped gas run to gas fire as a precaution. Tightness test 
again was ok. Customer will now need a rerun to the gas fire. Gas supply back on, customer 
now has heating and hot water. Warning placed on fire as coals are damaged.
At the time of attending to Mr Ms call out, Mr Ms gas supply had been disconnected. So he 
didnt have access to heating or hot water. The engineer couldnt locate a leak but did issue 
a gas safety warning, explaining the coals are damaged. Although a gas leak couldnt be found, as a precautionary measure, the engineer capped the 
gas run to the gas fire. Given what had been recorded about the gas fireplace, I think this 
action was reasonable. Without capping the gas run to the gas fire, Mr M wouldve been left 
without any heating or hot water. As a result of the work completed by the engineer, the 
primary heating and hot water system was left functioning as it should be. 
After the engineer had attended, I cant say Mr Ms home remained at risk in line with the 
home emergency situations that his policy was designed to cover. It is accepted that Mr M 
no longer has a gas supply to his fireplace in the lounge. But theres isnt evidence of a leak, 
and Mr Ms home has access to its primary heating system, and hot water. So I cant say 
there is evidence of an insured event thats covered by the policy. So I wont be asking IPA 
to do anything in settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman