DRN-2635894
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland plc has held her liable for an ATM cash withdrawal 
that she says wasnt dispensed.
What happened
Mrs R authorised an ATM cash withdrawal of £300 in March 2020. She says she heard the 
ATM counting money, but it didnt dispense the cash; nor did it, Mrs R says, return her card 
nor provide a requested receipt. She says the ATM screen showed the message, 
Insufficient funds.
Mrs R got in touch with BOS, since the £300 she says wasnt dispensed was debited from 
her account. BOS temporarily refunded the £300 and it also applied a £10 interest 
adjustment credit. Subsequently, however, BOSs investigation concluded that there had 
been no error with the ATM, and that the £300 cash was successfully dispensed. BOS 
therefore debited back the £300 refund and reversed the £10 interest adjustment credit.  
Mrs R referred her complaint about BOS to us. After looking into things, an investigator here 
was satisfied the ATM cash withdrawal was successfully made, so didnt recommend that 
Mrs Rs complaint be upheld. Mrs R didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ive explained the reasons for my decision 
below. 
BOS dont own the ATM in question. So following Mrs Rs claim that the ATM didnt dispense 
the £300 cash withdrawal she authorised, Id expect BOS to obtain information from the ATM 
operator to fairly and reasonably decide whether or not the cash was most likely dispensed, 
taking into account Mrs Rs submissions and all the available evidence. 
Mrs R has expressed strong feelings about what she says happened. However, I am 
satisfied from the information BOS obtained from the ATM operator that:
£300 cash was dispensed (specifically by way of fourteen £20 notes and two £10 
notes);
use of the ATM by different people both before and soon after Mrs Rs withdrawal 
request suggests the ATM was functioning correctly;
the ATM subsequently balanced with no cash difference. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs R has said, including what she has said about the 
ATM not returning her card or a receipt; the message, Insufficient funds, she says the 
screen showed; that she says she has a witness to this; the noise she says was coming from 
the machine; what she says about her calls with BOS and that it sent her a new card 
immediately; and that in July 2020 she saw a man at the same ATM whose cash also wasnt 
dispensed. 
However, the information I have seen from BOS suggests Mrs Rs most recent card was 
sent to her in 2019. The scans of her card Mrs R has sent us arent inconsistent with this. 
And I havent seen anything else that persuades me BOSs records about this are incorrect. 
If her card was retained in the machine, as Mrs R says, I think its unlikely she would now 
still be in possession of the same card. I likewise think that if BOS had issued a new card 
(again as Mrs R says) that there would be a record of this on its systems. This leads me to 
have some doubt about the reliability of Mrs Rs recollections. 
Overall, I accept that its possible the ATM didnt dispense the cash withdrawal Mrs R 
authorised. But given that the ATM appears to have been working correctly at the time, that 
the ATM journal shows the cash was dispensed, and that the ATM was balanced with no 
cash difference  and everything else I have said above  I dont think, on the evidence, that 
this is probable.
On balance, therefore, I am satisfied that the evidence indicates Mrs Rs cash withdrawal 
was dispensed by the ATM, and BOS therefore acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman