DRN-1674291
The complaint
Mr A, on behalf of S, complains that The New India Assurance Company Limited unfairly 
turned down a claim on S employers liability insurance policy.
What happened
S trades as a bar. In October 2019 S made a claim on its employers liability insurance policy 
for an incident that occurred at the insured premises, which led to S license being 
suspended for a short time.
The incident concerned the removal of a customer from the insured premises which led to S 
manager and security staff becoming involved, police being called and the customer being 
taken to hospital for treatment.
S license was suspended at the end of October, but the suspension was overturned on 
appeal and S was able to operate again by mid-November. No charges were brought 
against S staff by the police. 
S made a claim on its employers liability policy for help with its appeal costs and for loss of 
income whilst it was closed. New India declined S claim on the basis that the claim resulted 
from a situation that was within the control of the policyholder. 
New India also say that the claim made on the policy was solely in relation to the costs of the 
appeal and not for loss of income and that loss of income is not covered by the policy in any 
event. 
Our investigator focussed on the claim S made for the costs of the appeal. She thought S 
complaint should be upheld and that New India should now consider that claim in line with 
the remaining policy terms. Thats because she didnt agree that suspension of S license or 
the events that gave rise to it, were in S control.
New India doesnt agree. It says it declined the claim based on the information given to it by 
S broker and it remains of the view the policy doesnt respond in the circumstances of this 
claim. Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that S complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
The starting point is the policy terms. They provide cover for loss of license under section 9 
of the insurance. The term relevant to S claim says:
The Insurer will indemnify the Insured for
1 loss sustained in respect of depreciation in the value of the Insureds interest in the 
Premises or the Business
2 costs and expenses incurred by the Insured with the written consent of the Insurer for any
subsequent appeal
arising from
(a) the Licence being revoked suspended or forfeited under the provisions of the appropriate
legislation governing such licences
(b) renewal of the Licence being refused after due application for such renewal to the 
appropriate authority
at any time during the Period of Insurance provided that the revocation suspension forfeiture 
or refused renewal is for reasons beyond the control of the Insured
The issue for me to decide is whether the renewal of S license was suspended for reasons 
beyond S control.
New India says the incident which gave rise to the suspension of S license was within S 
control because it occurred as a result of an incident in which S manager and security staff 
were involved. It says those members of staff were within S control and so the claim for 
appeal of the suspended license isnt covered.
Ive thought about what New India has said but I dont agree. Ive considered the witness 
evidence that S has provided about the incident, the suspension notice, its subsequent 
reinstatement, as well as the circumstances surrounding this claim. Ive concluded that the 
incident itself that gave rise to the claim, whilst not uncommon for a late-night bar, resulted 
from S staff ejecting a customer who had become aggressive/violent. And theres nothing in 
the evidence Ive seen that suggests any wrongdoing on the part of S staff in that case. In 
fact I imagine S had a duty of care to its existing customers to remove a patron who had 
become aggressive or violent. Had there been evidence of wrong doing on the part of S 
staff, I might have had more sympathy with New Indias position. In that scenario it could be 
said that their actions wouldve foreseeably led to a loss of license. But thats not the position 
here. S license was suspended for a brief period, no one working for S was charged by the 
police and S continued to operate a short time after it was closed down. Because of this I 
dont think it can be said that the suspension of the license was within S control. 
And I dont think the construction of the policy term I have set out above is intended to 
exclude this sort of scenario in any event. Because of that I think Ss complaint should be 
upheld.
Putting things right
To put things right New India should consider S claim for loss of license retrospectively 
under the remaining terms of the policy. If New India reimburses S for any costs it has 
already paid to appeal the suspension, it should pay S interest of 8% per year simple, from 
the time S paid those costs until S is reimbursed. 
I appreciate that S wishes to claim for loss of income on the policy. Im not deciding that 
issue as part of this complaint but from what Ive seen it doesnt appear that S has cover for 
this as part of its insurance with New India. If S doesnt agree it should take that up with New 
India directly. And Id expect New India to provide S with a substantive response explaining 
its position.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold S complaint against New India Assurance Company 
Limited and direct it to comply with my award of fair compensation set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A on behalf of 
S to accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman