DRN-2248827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) unfairly declined their legal expenses insurance claim.
NFU uses intermediaries to help administer its legal expenses insurance, so any reference 
to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such 
intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr and Mrs M took out legal expenses cover on a claims occurring basis, which 
means it will cover insured perils so long as they occur during the insured period. In 
this instance their policy with NFU was active from July 2010 when it was taken out 
to July 2014 when it was cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs Ms neighbour installed a post in 2011, which they claimed was allegedly 
obstructing access to their prescriptive right of way. This claim was declined, 
however, as there was no cover available for the purposes of establishing whether 
Mr and Mrs M had a prescriptive right of way. But NFU said that cover could be 
available if the post was causing a legal nuisance, although it was unclear if the post 
was in fact causing any obstruction. In any event, Mr M eventually removed the post 
himself, thereby putting an end to any alleged nuisance.
While I appreciate the gate since installed by the neighbour in September 2019 was 
in the same position as the original post, it is not the original post that is again 
restricting access; it is the gate. The gate is an entirely different structure and is 
seemingly causing much more of an obstruction than the post ever caused on its 
own, as Mr and Mrs M have seemingly been able to access their land freely up until 
the point the gate was installed. I therefore consider the gate to be a distinct and 
separate nuisance to the installation of the post in 2011, which was resolved by Mr M 
when he removed it.
Given that the nuisance caused by the installation of the gate is different and distinct 
to the supposed nuisance caused by the installation of the post, I consider the date of 
occurrence in this instance to be the date in which the gate was installed (and 
physical access blocked) in September 2019, as this was the date of the event that 
led to the current claim. It cannot reasonably be said that the gates installation is a 
continuation of the original nuisance caused by the post because, as Ive outlined 
above, this matter was resolved when the post was removed, meaning that this 
particular nuisance ceased. And neither do I consider the neighbours intent to try 
and stop Mr and Mrs M from using the land to be an insured event for the purposes 
of the policy wording. There was only an actionable nuisance when the gate was 
physically installed. The intent to install it or the desire to block access is not 
actionable in law until the access is actually blocked/restricted. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy was not active at the time the gate was installed (i.e. the date 
of occurrence) as it had been cancelled around five years prior. I therefore do not 
consider NFU to have acted unfairly by declining Mr and Mrs Ms claim on the basis 
that they had no cover in place at the relevant point in time. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, who may want to consult 
any current legal expenses insurance policies they have in place to see if it will cover their 
claim. But in the circumstances, I do not think NFU have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman