DRN-3990097
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with PSA Finance 
UK Limited (PSA) was of unsatisfactory quality. He says PSA shouldve accepted his 
rejection of the car but instead he was forced to sell the car back to the supplying garage.
He wants PSA to refund all his payments, pay him the £2,500 government grant, refund the 
cost of the report he obtained, and compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
been caused.
What happened
Mr B obtained a new car using a hire purchase agreement with PSA in June 2021.
He says that, within six months, he reported several faults, the main three being, a knocking 
noise when turning, a rattle in the roof, and the heated seats not working properly. He 
returned the car to the supplying garage for repair four times, but he says it failed to fix the 
faults, so he wrote to PSA to tell it he wanted to reject the car.
PSA obtained an independent report and, based on its findings, didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Mr B obtained his own independent report which concluded there were faults with the car 
which needed further investigation and could most likely be repaired under warranty.
Whilst the complaint was being investigated by our service, Mr B agreed to the supplying 
garage to buy the car back because he needed to obtain a replacement vehicle.
Our investigator concluded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, 
and that PSA should have accepted his rejection of the car. But he noted the finance had 
been settled by the supplying garage when it bought the car back and that Mr B received 
enough to cover the deposit hed paid. He didnt think PSA needed to refund any of the 
monthly payments as the cost fairly reflected Mr Bs use of the car. And he didnt think PSA 
needed to reimburse Mr B with the £2,500 government grant he received when he obtained 
the car in June 2021, because the grant was still available until 14 June 2022, which was 
before Mr B arranged to obtain a replacement car.
The investigator recommended PSA refund Mr B £264 for the cost of the report he obtained, 
plus interest. And that it pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
PSA agreed with the investigators conclusion. Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint was 
passed to me.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld and I explained why. I said:
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, 
this service can consider complaints relating to it. PSA is the supplier of goods under 
this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
Mr B has asked whether he can make a claim under section 75, or section 75a, of 
the Consumer Credit Act. Mr B has a hire purchase agreement, and the creditor and 
supplier of the goods is PSA. Section 75 and 75a dont apply to this type of 
agreement. But Mr B paid the deposit for the car using his credit card. I understand 
he has recently approached the credit card issuer to make a section 75 claim, but 
that this has been rejected. I cant comment on this further as this complaint is only 
about what PSA did or didnt do wrong.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that, under a contract to supply goods, theres 
an implied term that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold 
this complaint, I would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and so a breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault(s) 
materialised.
I am not going to repeat the detail of the timeline of events here. In summary, the car 
was brand-new when it was supplied. So its reasonable to expect it to be fault-free 
for a reasonable period of time. Mr B reported three faults (a knocking noise when 
turning, the heated seats not working, and a rattle in the roof) around four months 
after he obtained the car and when hed driven it around 4,300 miles. From early 
November 2021 to early February 2022, the car was returned to the supplying 
garage four times for repair. But Mr B said the faults werent fixed and told PSA he 
wanted to reject the car.
PSA arranged for an independent inspection of the car. This was carried out in March 
2022 when the car had been driven 8,690 miles. This concluded that:
1. A rotational torque load knocking could be heard from the O/S 
driveshaft/suspension area on both left and right cornering. The inspector 
suggested the driveshaft might need replacing, although further inspection was 
required. He thought the fault was unlikely to be present at the point of supply 
and might be due to an aggressive driving style.
2. A light intermittent rattle could be detected from the top area of the N/S B pillar. 
The inspector thought this was unlikely to have been present at the point of 
supply; may have been made worse by Mr Bs apparent attempt to repair the 
roof; and that it should be easily repairable.
3. The inspector couldnt find a fault with the heated seats.
Mr B arranged his own independent inspection. This was carried out in April 2022 
when the car had been driven 9,962 miles. This concluded that:1. There was a clicking noise from the front of the vehicle on both left and right 
hand locks. The inspector thought this required attention.
2. There was a resonance/noise from the nearside B pillar around the area of the 
seatbelt anchor. The inspector concluded that the attempted repair had been 
unsuccessful.
3. The offside front heated seat only operated intermittently.
4. There was oil staining on the undertray and nearside suspension wishbone. The 
inspector thought this required further investigation.
The inspection report concluded that there was no specific evidence to show these 
faults were present at the point of supply. But that, as the car was still under 
warranty, the faults should be investigated further and repaired as required.
I firstly need to decide whether I think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
Im persuaded from Mr Bs testimony, from the supplying garages job cards, and 
from the two independent reports, that there were faults with the car (as listed 
above). But for me to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied, I would need to conclude that the faults were present, or developing, when 
the car was supplied.
The second independent report didnt conclude whether the faults were likely to have 
been present when the car was supplied. The first report concluded that the noise 
from the B pillar was unlikely to have been present when the car was supplied. But it 
hasnt explained why. It does suggest that repairs carried out by Mr B might have 
caused some issues. But Mr B denies carrying out any repairs himself. And the first 
report concludes that the knocking noise when cornering might be due to an 
aggressive driving style. Ive considered this carefully. Taking into account what I 
said earlier  that its reasonable to expect a brand-new car to be fault free for a 
reasonable period of time - it seems surprising that the car developed the faults 
within four months without excessive mileage. Although the first report mentions 
aggressive driving style as a possible cause, the same report also notes that the car 
had an appearance considered less than commensurate with regard to the vehicle 
age both externally and internally. This would suggest to me that the car had been 
well looked after which wouldnt suggest the dangerous driving approach the report 
mentions.
On balance, I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  
because it was brand new and developed three faults within about four months, and 
an oil leak within around ten months.
Under the terms of the Consumer Rights Act, Mr B had a right to reject the car within 
the first 30 days. Ive not seen evidence that he rejected the car during this period.
After the initial short-term right to reject, Mr B had a right for the car to be repaired or 
replaced.
He told us he returned the car to the garage four times and that some repairs were 
carried out. But its clear to me that those repairs were unsuccessful because the 
independent reports, which confirmed the faults, were completed after the attempted 
repairs.Whilst the reports suggest repair as a remedy, I dont think that would have been a 
fair and reasonable outcome. Thats because the supplying garage already had four 
attempts at repair. I think at this stage it would have been fair and reasonable for 
PSA to accept Mr Bs rejection of the car.
But PSA cant do that now, because in June 2022 Mr B agreed to the car being 
repurchased by the supplying garage. Mr B was clearly unhappy with the car and had 
some concerns about its safety because of the undiagnosed knocking sound. He 
decided he wanted a replacement car, but he couldnt afford to continue to pay for 
the existing one as well. He decided to accept the supplying garages offer to buy the 
car back. I dont think this was unreasonable, because the faults hed reported 
remained after hed given the supplying garage four opportunities to investigate and 
carry out repairs.
Ive considered carefully what PSA should do to fairly compensate Mr B, taking into 
account that he no longer has the car, and the hire purchase agreement has been 
settled. My aim is, as far as it is possible, to put Mr B back in the position hed be in if 
he hadnt been supplied with an unsatisfactory quality car. For ease, Ive used sub-
headings for each of the items Ive considered.
Settlement of the hire purchase agreement
The hire purchase agreement ended in June 2022 when the outstanding finance 
settled. So Im satisfied Mr B does not owe any money under the terms of the 
agreement. PSA should ensure the agreement is showing as settled on Mr Bs credit 
record or remove it altogether.
Deposit
I find its fair that PSA refunds the deposit Mr B paid, plus interest at 8% simple per 
year from the date the deposit was paid to the date of settlement. The invoice shows 
Mr B paid a deposit of £1,000.00.
Government grant
In April 2021 when he obtained the car, Mr B received a government grant of £2,500 
for the purchase of a new electric car. The investigator didnt think this should be 
reimbursed to Mr B because it was still available when the hire purchase agreement 
was settled  so he could have benefitted from it on the purchase of a new 
(replacement) electric car. But by June 2022 when Mr B was arranging the supply of 
a new electric car, the scheme had been downgraded and wasnt available on cars 
costing more than £32,000. Im satisfied that Mr B benefitted from the grant in April 
2021 and that PSA should pay him the equivalent sum now to off-set the cost of the 
new car.
Monthly payments
Mr B made 13 monthly payments of £336.79. Mr B has had use of the car and I find 
its fair that he pays for that use. I think the monthly payments hes made fairly reflect 
the use hes had of the car.
In coming to that conclusion, Ive taken into account that Mr B says he planned to 
buy the car at the end of the agreement and that, if he hadnt had that intention hed 
have just taken out a lease agreement. I accept the monthly payments under a lease agreement may have been less than the amount he paid under the hire purchase 
agreement. But I cant say for certain how much hed have paid to rent a car, and, on 
balance, Im satisfied that the monthly payments arent unreasonable to reflect the 
use hes had of the car.
Ive also thought about Mr Bs view that its not appropriate to charge him for use 
when the car has increased in value over the time hes had it. But I dont find that 
makes a difference. If he hadnt been supplied with an unsatisfactory car, he would 
have still needed a vehicle and would have had to have paid for it. So I dont find hes 
in a worse position by having to have paid what he has. Whilst I understand why he 
felt he had no choice, he agreed to the supplying garage buying the car back from 
him. The price the supplying garage was able to re-sell the car at doesnt have a 
bearing on the amount of compensation that it is fair to award Mr B.
But Mr B obtained a brand-new car and he reasonably expected it to be fault free. 
Whilst the faults didnt stop him driving the car, it has clearly spoiled his enjoyment of 
it. And its clear he had some concerns that the faults may have impacted his safety. 
The car was also with the garage for attempted repair for eight to nine days. Taking 
all this into account, I think its fair that PSA pays Mr B £300 to compensate him for 
his lack of enjoyment of his new car.
Cost of independent report
Mr B has provided evidence that he paid £264 for the cost of the independent report. 
Mr B wouldnt have incurred this cost if the car had been of satisfactory quality or if 
PSA had concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at an earlier stage. So I 
think PSA should reimburse this cost, plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date he paid it to the date of settlement.
Distress and inconvenience
Being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality has caused Mr B 
distress and inconvenience. He returned the car to the supplying garage four times.
He also says that, whilst he was supplied with a courtesy car, this was a petrol car 
which cost him more to run that the electric car hed chosen.
Taking into account that Mr B reasonably gave the supplying garage four chances to 
put things right, and he incurred some additional running costs, I think £400 is fair 
and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused and the costs 
hes incurred.
Amount received on termination of the agreement
When the supplying garage bought back the car, Mr B says he received £3,198.22, 
after settlement of the finance. Its fair that PSA should deduct this sum from the total 
amount it compensates Mr B.
So, in summary, I was minded to order PSA Finance UK Limited to:
1. Record the hire purchase agreement as settled on Mr Bs credit file or remove it 
altogether.
2. Refund the deposit Mr B paid of £1,000.00 plus 8% simple interest per year from the 
date it was paid to the date of settlement.3. Pay Mr B £2,500, being the amount of the government grant.
4. Pay Mr B £300.00, to reflect his loss of enjoyment of the car.
5. Pay Mr B £264 for the cost of the independent report, plus 8% simple interest per 
year from the date Mr B paid for the report to the date of settlement.
6. Pay Mr B £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and to 
cover his costs.
7. PSA Finance UK Limited can deduct £3,198.22 from the amount it pays Mr B, to 
reflect the amount hes already received from the supplying garage.
Mr Bs response to my provisional decision
Mr B said he paid £2,500 deposit, £1,000 on his credit card when he first visited the 
supplying garage and £1,500 when he collected the car. Hes provided copy bank 
statements showing the payments.
He explained, in detail, why he didnt agree with my provisional decision. He provided his 
reasoning in substantial multiple submissions. Im not going to list what he has said, but I 
have fully considered all his submissions. In very brief summary, he doesnt think his 
monthly payments bear any relation to the use he had of the car, or its depreciation. And he 
doesnt agree that the payment he received when he sold the car back to the supplying 
garage should be deducted from the compensation he receives. 
PSAs response to my provisional decision
PSA said the paperwork it has doesnt evidence a deposit payment of £1,000.
And it didnt agree with paying Mr B £2,500, the amount of the government grant. It said, in 
summary, that the grant didnt form part of the finance agreement; that Mr B benefitted from 
it, but it was never a payment that PSA received; if PSA pay it to Mr B it will be bettering his 
position  it was applied as a discount, not a cash sum to be used for any purpose; and that 
it had no control over the application of the grant, or the governments decision to stop 
providing it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has replied at some length, and in several submissions, to my provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mr B would have preferred to enter into some form of negotiation and that he 
would like me to respond to each of the points hes made. Im sorry, but Im not going to do 
that for the reasons I explained previously - Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. In saying that, I understand Mr Bs strength of 
feeling on this matter and I respect his professional experience.
Im satisfied from the bank statements and invoices Mr B has provided that he paid a deposit 
of £2,500 and this should be refunded in full, plus interest, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
Ive considered what PSA has said about the government grant. It says the grant didnt form 
part of the finance agreement, PSA never received it, and that it was applied as a discount 
on the manufacturers price of the car. It says Mr B shouldnt receive the grant as cash to be 
used for any purpose. Ive considered this carefully, but it hasnt changed my conclusion. 
Mr B received the benefit of the grant in April 2021. In April 2021 he was supplied with a car 
that wasnt of satisfactory quality, so he had to obtain a replacement car. The grant was no 
longer available, so Mr B no longer had the benefit of the £2,500 through no fault of his own. 
I accept the grant didnt form part of the finance agreement. But the failure to supply Mr B 
with a satisfactory quality car  means PSA is responsible for compensating Mr B and to 
ensure, as far as is possible, that he isnt in a worse financial position. I find its fair that PSA 
pays him the equivalent amount of the grant.
Mr B doesnt think its fair that PSA retains all of his monthly payments. He says he paid 
£4,378.27 (13 payments of £336.79). But he says, when the supplying garage bought the 
car back, it paid £2,220 less than Mr B paid for it. He says this is a better way of calculating 
the cost of his use of the car.
He's also unhappy that I concluded PSA can deduct £3,198.22 from the overall 
compensation figure, being the amount Mr B received after he sold the car back to the 
supplying garage and the finance was settled. He says PSA has received payment in full, 
following settlement of the agreement, plus interest on his monthly payments. It shouldnt 
benefit from the amount he received from selling the car.
I understand Mr Bs arguments, but it remains fair that he pays for the use he had of the car. 
Thats because, if hed been supplied with an alternative, fault free, car, he would have 
incurred the same costs for driving it. I appreciate that the monthly rentals may be going 
towards the purchase of the car if he decided to purchase it at the end after paying the 
balloon. And, whilst he told us he intended to buy the car, I cant conclude with certainty that 
this is what he would have done and, until that point, the agreement is like a hire agreement. 
The monthly payments seem a reasonable sum to pay for his use of the car, considering the 
circumstances.
The matter is complicated by the fact that Mr B sold the car before he finished paying for it. 
But my aim is, as far as is possible, is to put him back into the position he would have been 
in had he not been supplied a faulty vehicle. And, taking that into account, the cost of usage 
is relevant as Mr B would have incurred that cost elsewhere if he hadnt bought this faulty 
car. And, in trying to put him back in the position hed be in if he hadnt been supplied with a 
faulty car, its fair that the amount he received from the sale of that car  which he hadnt 
finished paying for  is taken into account.
Mr B has made reference to the additional costs of the car he now has, and the higher cost 
of that car. But I cant compare the new car with the old because, whilst the cars have 
similarities, there are significant differences between the cars including the brand, technical 
capabilities and specification levels which would result in a different price. 
Mr B also asks why the whole transaction is not null and void because PSA didnt accept his 
rejection of the car under the Consumer Rights Act. But there is nothing in the Act that says 
the agreement should be treated as null and void. Our role is to consider what impact the 
businesss actions have had on him, and this is what I have done. 
Mr B has also explained in detail why he thinks he should be awarded damages of £10,225. 
I set out in my provisional decision why this services decision may be different from the 
outcome of court proceedings, and I explained that we have no ability to make awards for damages in the same way a court would. Mr B is free to reject my decision and pursue his 
claim through the courts if he chooses to do so.
Putting things right
PSA Finance UK Limited should:
1. Record the hire purchase agreement as settled on Mr Bs credit file or remove it 
altogether.
2. Refund the deposit Mr B paid of £2,500 plus 8% simple interest per year from the date it 
was paid to the date of settlement. *
3. Pay Mr B £2,500, being the amount of the government grant.
4. Pay Mr B £300.00 to reflect his loss of enjoyment of the car.
5. Pay Mr B £264 for the cost of the independent report, plus 8% simple interest per year 
from the date Mr B paid for the report to the date of settlement. *
6. Pay Mr B £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and to cover 
his costs.
7. PSA Finance UK Limited can deduct £3,198.22 from the amount it pays Mr B, to reflect 
the amount hes already received from the supplying garage.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires PSA Finance UK Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. PSA Finance UK Limited must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PSA Finance UK Limited should pay 
compensation, and take the actions, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman