DRN-2746879
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as O have complained that Allianz Insurance Plc incorrectly valued
their van and also told them the settlement amount didnt include the cost of the new tyres
and alloys, after O claimed on their motor trade insurance policy. Mr O, director of O, has 
complained on Os behalf.
What happened
Mr O claimed on Os motor trade policy after being involved in an accident that wasnt his
fault. After some discussion over the value of the van, Mr O and Allianz agreed on a value of
£7,056. Mr O said this was on the condition that this didnt include the cost of the new tyres
and alloys hed recently added to the van. He said Allianz told him it didnt, as they could be
claimed as an uninsured loss. Mr O said he called Allianz twice to confirm this, as his broker
told him to double check.
Allianz said the calls hadnt been recorded due to the advisor working from home. However, 
it thought there had been a misunderstanding as the value did include the tyres and alloys. It
said this was supported by it telling the broker the value included these costs. However, it
said it would reconsider the value if Mr O provided receipts for the tyres and alloys, plus
confirmation for how much hed sold the original tyres and alloys for. Mr O said hed bought
new tyres and alloys with the expectation that hed be able to claim the money back as an
uninsured loss.
Unhappy with Allianzs response Mr O brought Os complaint to our service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 March 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Os policy say in the event of a total loss Allianz will pay up to
the insured value. This is defined as the sum for which the Insured Vehicle or a vehicle of
equivalent quality and specification could have been purchased by You at the time of the
loss or damage. Its unclear whether Allianz considers that O should be able to purchase a
new vehicle at trade value or retail value, but it appears to have used retail value to produce
a valuation, as it thought that was more in line with what O would need to pay for a new one.
We dont value vehicles, instead we look to see if the insurer has made a fair and
reasonable offer, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this, we usually
consider the valuations provided in relevant trade guides as we generally find them
persuasive.
Ive reviewed the valuations provided in three trade guides. These give values of £5,072
(including VAT), £3,685 (excluding VAT) and £4,500 (excluding VAT).
Allianz said its engineer produced a base valuation for the van and then added money on to
take account of the new alloys and tyres. Even when deducting the £1,176 value of the tyres
and alloys this would mean Allianz valued the van at around £5,880. As this is higher than
the amounts given by the trade guides, I think that valuation is fair. As Allianz then paid O
£7,056 I think hes already been paid the additional amount for the tyres and alloys by
Allianz.
Also, Allianz offered to review the valuation if O provided further information to show how
much theyd bought the van for, the invoice for the tyres and alloys and how much theyd
sold the old ones for. I think this offer was fair and reasonable, although its unclear if this
information was provided by O.
I can understand Mr Os frustration at understanding that he was going to receive an
additional amount for the tyres and alloys. His testimony has been consistent and its clear
that it was important to him, as he phoned up twice to double check. I havent been able to
listen to the call, but it seems most likely that Allianz gave Mr O information that led him to
believe he would be paid extra for his alloys and tyres, even if it correctly told the broker that
they were included in the valuation. This might be because there seems to be other
modifications to the vehicle which werent included in the valuation. However, Im not going
to make a finding on whether this was Allianzs fault. Thats because even if I thought Allianz
had provided the wrong information, I think its already paid O for the tyres and alloys within
the settlement, so I dont think being given the wrong information would have caused him a
loss.
I appreciate being given the correct information might mean that O wouldnt have gone and
bought new the new tyres and alloys with the expectation of receiving the money, but as I
think hes already been paid for them, I dont intend to require Allianz to do anything further.
Allianz didnt reply but Mr O didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said Allianz knew 
what theyd told him on the phone and must have known the call wasnt recorded. He said 
hed double checked the value of wheels and asked if could find a replacement van with 
alloy wheels for the amount Allianz had paid O. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Os comments but there isnt anything thats persuaded me to depart from 
my provisional decision. I accept that the information Allianz gave Mr O led him to believe 
that the wheels would be claimed separately as an uninsured loss. But I remain satisfied that 
overall Allianz has paid a fair and reasonable amount to settle Os claim, for the reasons set 
out above.
Mr O has asked if I can find a van for the amount Allianz paid him. Its not for me to identify a 
van, but to consider the information provided by Mr O and Allianz. Also, any adverts would 
show vans for sale now. Whereas the guides take account of likely selling prices at the time 
of the loss. 
I appreciate my decision will be a disappointment to Mr O, but Im not going to require Allianz 
to pay anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman