DRN-3305762
The complaint
Mr F complains that Vanquis Bank Limited have irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr F was accepted for a Vanquis credit card in March 2015, with an initial credit limit of
£250. The credit limit was later increased to;
£1,000 in October 2017
£2,000 in March 2018
£3,000 in August 2018
Mr F contacted Vanquis in November 2018 and informed them that he had changed jobs
and his salary had fallen from £25,000 to £20,500 and he was experiencing financial
difficulty so a £25 a month payment arrangement was set up for three months.
In February 2019, Vanquis were informed that Mr F had entered into a debt management
plan with a debt management charity and Vanquis froze interest and charges on his account.
Mr F raised a complaint with Vanquis and said the lending and multiple credit limit increases
were irresponsible.
Vanquis did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. They said that they made several checks based on
his individual circumstances. Vanquis said that in March 2015, Mr F told their call handler
that he was employed, earning £19,000 per annum. Vanquis said that every month, they
carried out a risk assessment to see if he could maintain a credit limit increase.
Vanquis said their data showed that Mr F had not defaulted on an account since around
October 2013, he hadnt missed any external debt repayments for 19 months in August
2018, his external debt had fallen from April 2015 to August 2018 and by August 2018 he
had missed/paid late four times on his Vanquis card. Vanquis also said that prior to the credit
limit increases, that Mr F had been making payments of over 300% of his contractual
monthly payment and he had not utilised his full credit limit  his credit limit utilisation was
89% or under for all of the credit limit increases, therefore they were satisfied that the credit
limits they approved were affordable to Mr F.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. He also supplied a copy of his credit file to our
investigator. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said at the time the initial
credit limit was granted, Mr F did have a default recorded, however, this was 18 months prior
to being accepted for the card. Our investigator said that the initial credit limit of £250 was
modest compared to Mr Fs income and was affordable for Mr F.
Our investigator said that each time the credit limit was increased, Mr F had no new defaults
registered, no short term loans and his external debt had only marginally increased. He said
that Mr F was paying roughly three times the minimum payment and he hadnt been utilising
the full credit limit available to him. He said that this showed that Mr F had been managing
his borrowings well.
Our investigator said that it appears that Mr Fs credit file shows that his financial difficulties
mainly occurred in 2019, but that didnt mean that Vanquis were wrong in increasing his
credit limit. Mr F asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said in the years prior
to the Vanquis card being approved his credit score and levels of borrowing havent been
great and that between June 2018 and January 2020 he had missed some sort of payment
which affected his credit score due to the volume of debt incurred from not just Vanquis but
other lenders.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mr F, Vanquis needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to; the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
Initial credit limit
Ive looked at what checks Vanquis said they did prior to accepting Mr Fs application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Mr F
had gave them, such as being employed, earnings of £19,000 and they looked at the
information on his credit file. Vanquis said that Mr Fs credit file showed he had external
unsecured outstanding debt of £3,438.
But thats not all the credit file showed. It showed that Mr F had defaulted in the past. The
most recent default was 18 months ago. So Vanquis would have been aware that Mr F had
previously not maintained an agreement.
So Ive considered if the checks that Vanquis carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Mr F was given. Based on the data showing that Mr F had no accounts in arrears,
his last default was 18 months prior and given the low initial credit limit in relation to his
earnings, Im persuaded that the checks Vanquis carried out here were proportionate.
It may help to explain here that, while information like a default on someones credit file may
often mean theyre not granted further credit  they dont automatically mean that a lender
wont offer borrowing. Here, Vanquis considered the information that Mr F had on his credit
history and still made a decision to lend which, in the circumstances, I think was reasonable.
October 2017 credit limit increase - £250 to £1,000
Ive looked at the information that Vanquis had available to them when they increased Mr Fs
credit limit. I can see that Mr F had either exceeded his credit limit or made a late payment
on five different statements between his account being opened and the October 2017 credit
limit increase. This may suggest that Mr F may not manage his credit limit effectively here.
So Ive looked at the data Vanquis had around the time to get a broader sense of how Mr F
was managing his finances prior to his credit limit being increased.
The data shows that Mr Fs external debt had fallen to £2,381, which was over £1,000 lower
than when he was accepted for the Vanquis account. There were no external accounts he
had here showing arrears, there are no new defaults or new adverse credit information
showing against his credit file.The last time he incurred a late payment charge on his Vanquis account was on his January
2017 statement as he missed his December 2016 payment. This was 8/9 months prior to the
credit limit being increased. In the meantime, Mr F made payments which were 2-3 times the
minimum monthly payment requested from Vanquis and utilised roughly 50% of the credit
limit. So I am persuaded that despite the overlimit charges and late payment charges
previously, that by the time Vanquis increased Mr Fs credit limit to £1,000 in October 2017,
he was in control of his finances and that the increased limit would be affordable and
sustainable at this time, therefore Im satisfied the checks that Vanquis made prior to
increasing Mr Fs credit limit here were proportionate.
March 2018 credit limit increase - £1,000 to £2,000
Ive looked at the information that Vanquis had available to them when they increased Mr Fs
credit limit to £2,000. This time they doubled his credit limit. So I would need to see that the
data Vanquis had available to them would support the increase. Im persuaded that it did and
Ill explain why.
Mr Fs external debt around this time was £2,439, which was similar to the level the last time
his credit limit was increased. None of his accounts were showing in arrears and by this time
his default had been registered nearly four and a half years ago and Mr F had nearly fully
repaid this debt.
His March 2018 statement shows he has approximately used 89% of his available credit,
however, he is paying nearly three times his contractual minimum monthly payment which
would suggest that Mr F had disposable income available to meet an increased credit limit.
He had not had any late payment charges or exceeded his credit limit since the last credit
increase, which further suggests that it was affordable for him. So again, Im satisfied the
checks that Vanquis made prior to increasing Mr Fs credit limit here were proportionate.
August 2018 credit limit increase - £2,000 to £3,000
Ive looked at the information that Vanquis had available to them when they increased Mr Fs
credit limit to £3,000. This time they increased his credit limit by 50% in a short period of time
(five months) prior to the last increase. So I would need to see that the data Vanquis had
available to them would support the increase in a short period of time. Im persuaded that it
did and Ill explain why.
The data shows that by August 2018, Mr F had satisfied his default which was registered in
October 2013 so this may have increased the disposable income Mr F had to meet an
increased credit limit. The data also shows that prior to this timeframe, Mr F had no accounts
in arrears and was managing his finances. I say this as his Vanquis card shows that prior to
the increase he has paid at least a 50% higher payment than his contractual minimum
payment and he was utilising approximately 77% of his credit limit. This had reduced from
the 89% from the last credit increase, which could indicate that Mr F didnt need to rely on all
the available credit available to him. His external debt was at £2,888, which was relatively
similar to what it had been throughout the life of the Vanquis account. So Im persuaded that
the checks that Vanquis made prior to increasing Mr Fs credit limit here were proportionate.
I realise that Mr F says he was experiencing financial difficulties around the time of the credit
limit being increased for the final time. But Im not persuaded that Vanquis would have been
able to foresee that Mr Fs income would reduce by as much as it did or that Mr F would take
on extra credit arrangements when he hadnt been utilising all of the credit available to him
through Vanquis.
I say this as the data Vanquis had available to them showed Mr Fs external debt was beingmanaged well and apart from initial problems where he exceeded his credit limit up until late
2016, he had always paid at least his contractual monthly payment on time and often paid
substantially more than this amount, which could show that he wouldve been able to repay
the debt in a timely manner if his personal circumstances hadnt changed. He didnt fully
utilise the extra credit Vanquis gave him, even when higher credit limits were made available
to him, which may suggest he wasnt reliant on borrowing to meet his day to day
commitments.
And it was only in November 2018, three months after the credit limit was increased, that he
told Vanquis that his salary was now £25,000. So the total of the increased Vanquis debt
and the external debt would have been less than 25% of this figure. But I think based on the
information Vanquis had at the time they increased the credit limit in August 2018, they
considered things proportionately and made a fair decision to lend.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Fs financial difficulties, but in order to uphold this complaint I would
need to see that Vanquis irresponsibly lent to Mr F. But based on the reasons Ive already
given, Im persuaded that the checks Vanquis completed prior to granting more credit were
proportionate. So it follows I dont intend to ask Vanquis to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Vanquis said they had no further comments to add to the provisional decision. Mr F 
did not respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman