DRN-2486334
The complaint
Mr E has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to cancel his
home contents insurance policy as if it didnt exist (otherwise known as avoid) and reject his
claim.
For the purpose of my decision, all reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
I set out the background in detail in the first of two provisional decisions I issued, so I dont 
intend to repeat it in detail here. Neither party disagreed with my understanding of what 
happened. 
In summary Mr E bought a home insurance policy with Lloyds in December 2016 and 
subsequently renewed it through them each year.
In August 2019 Mr E made a claim, which was rejected by Lloyds as it discovered Mr E had
previously been declared bankrupt. Lloyds said Mr E hadnt answered a clear question which
he was asked when he applied for the policy.
Lloyds backdated the avoidance to the renewal date of December 2018 and refunded the
premium from December 2018. Mr E was unhappy with Lloyds decision and after Lloyds 
didnt uphold his complaint, he asked us to look at things for him.
Our investigator thought Mr E had made a qualifying misrepresentation. But as Lloyds didnt 
provide its underwriting evidence to show its decision to avoid the policy was fair, he thought 
Mr Es complaint should be upheld. 
Lloyds subsequently provided its underwriting evidence. So I issued a provisional decision 
on 4 December 2020. I thought Lloyds decision to avoid the policy from December 2018 for 
careless misrepresentation was fair and in line with CIDRA. And so it followed that Mr Es 
claim wasnt covered.
Lloyds accepted my first provisional decision. Mr E said that he made a genuine mistake 
when answering the question due to being careless and in a hurry. He said the underwriter 
for his current insurance policy is Lloyds  but his current insurer told him because the 
bankruptcy was over 20 years ago, it wouldnt affect his cover with them. He feels the 
standards should be consistent.
Mr E asked why the avoidance hasnt been backdated to three years instead of one.
I issued a second provisional decision on 23 December 2020. I thought Lloyds should 
backdate the avoidance to December 2016.
Lloyds accepted my second provisional decision and offered a compensation payment of 
£50 to Mr E for the inconvenience caused.
Mr E has accepted the offer. So the case has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
The key question Mr E was asked when he applied for the policy in December 2016 was:
Have you or any other person linked to the policy or living with you ever been declared 
bankrupt?
Mr E answered no. I understand that Mr E says the bankruptcy was from many years ago. 
But I think the question was clear in that it asked if hed ever been declared bankrupt. So I 
dont think Mr E took reasonable care to accurately answer the question. 
His policy documents  and subsequent documents at renewal in December 2018 
highlighted the importance for Mr E to check his documents and if anything wasnt correct to 
contact Lloyds. Lloyds highlighted the possibility of his policy being avoided if the information 
hed provided wasnt correct. 
Under Mr Es Statement of Insurance Lloyds made a number of assumptions based on Mr 
Es previous answers. One of the assumptions read: you have not been declared bankrupt
So I think Mr E had a further opportunity when he received his documents  and at 
subsequent renewal  to contact Lloyds when the information hed given wasnt correct. 
Lloyds has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria to show that if Mr E had answered 
yes to the bankruptcy question, it would have declined offering insurance. We cant share 
an insurers underwriting criteria as its commercially sensitive. But we can check in order to be satisfied that the insurer has treated a customer fairly and as it would any other customer 
in the same circumstances. 
Im satisfied from the evidence provided that Lloyds wouldnt have provided a policy to Mr E 
if it had known about the bankruptcy. 
Insurers underwrite different risks for different insurance policies across the market. As a 
consumer we have a wide range of products to choose from that vary widely in price 
because of the differences insurers are prepared to underwrite and provide cover for. I cant 
comment on the underwriting criteria for Mr Es current insurance policy. I can only consider 
whether Lloyds decision to avoid Mr Es policy was fair based on the underwriting evidence 
its provided. As its provided evidence to show it wouldnt have offered the policy Mr E bought 
if it had known about the bankruptcy, I think its decision to avoid his policy was reasonable 
and in line with CIDRA.
I understand Mr E is disappointed at the length of time Lloyds took to reach its decision after 
he made a claim under the policy. I think Lloyds could have reached its decision sooner, but 
I cant say that this has prejudiced Mr Es position or changed the outcome.
I agree with Mr E that the avoidance should have been backdated to December 2016. So I 
recommended Lloyds did this in my second provisional decision. As the question Lloyds 
asked didnt change at subsequent renewals and as Mr E didnt claim under the policy from 
December 2016 to December 2018, I saw no reason why Lloyds should retain the premium 
Mr E paid since December 2016  as the misrepresentation was classed as careless. Had 
Mr E made a claim between December 2016 and December 2018, I think Lloyds would have 
reached the same decision and refunded the premium for that year  and we would consider 
that reasonable.
So I think a fairer outcome is for Lloyds to backdate the avoidance date to December 2016, 
when the misrepresentation occurred, which Lloyds has accepted and offered to pay Mr E 
compensation of £50. I think this is fair and reasonable. 
I think Lloyds was entitled to avoid Mr Es policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this 
means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Lloyds does not have to deal with his claim. 
But I think Lloyds should backdate the avoidance to December 2016 and pay Mr E 
compensation of £50 for the inconvenience caused, which he has accepted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to backdate the avoidance to December 2016 on the basis that the 
misrepresentation was careless. I require it to pay Mr E £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman