DRN-4020315
The complaint
Mr and Ms B complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly handled a claim made 
under their legal expenses insurance (LEI).
Any reference to Mr and Ms B and UKI include respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and discussed in detail 
elsewhere, so Ill summarise events.
Mr and Ms B hold an LEI policy with UKI.
After making a claim, Mr and Ms B appointed their own solicitor (Company A) to 
represent them. They later appointed Company B to represent them.
Following this, Mr and Ms B raised concerns about the quality of work competed by 
Company B. They said UKI should void Company Bs costs from their own indemnity 
limit. And that Company B had breached the terms of appointment between itself and 
UKI  which in turn had unfairly reduced their indemnity limit by around £25,000. 
They also raised concerns about terms of the policy and service issues.
Mr and Ms B said Company A and Company Bs work has accounted for £75,000 of 
their £100,000 indemnity under the policy.
UKI said it would complete a costs assessment of Company Bs works, so it could 
establish reasonable, proportionate and necessary costs. 
Mr and Ms B disagreed with this. And instead asked UKI to settle the claim by way of 
an economic settlement payment. Mr and Ms B say UKI must do so in line with FCA 
PERG rules.
UKI said an economic settlement wouldnt be appropriate in these circumstances 
where a considerable sum of the indemnity has already been used. And it provided 
its final response letter in November 2022, which said:
oIt wouldnt void Company Bs costs and any decision to invoke terms 
remained its own  and not Mr and Ms Bs. It said it would have Company Bs 
file assessed by its costs draftsman at the end of the case. And it said delays 
on Company Bs part wouldnt be grounds for it to refuse to pay its costs.
oUKIs role was not to fill the gap in respect of service provided by Company B 
and highlighted this could be brought to the Legal Ombudsman or Solicitors 
Regulation Authority.
oIts legal helpline was unable to get involved once litigation had commenced, 
and was only for initial advice.
oIn places it couldve handled matters better, saying it couldve been clearer 
about certain information about reading in costs, and caused confusion 
across calls around claims that would be taken on. As well as a delay in 
explaining it would cover a professional negligence claim against Company B. 
It awarded £250 for these mistakes and around its complaint handling.
Around a month later, UKI awarded an additional £50 for service related to calling Mr 
and Ms B back.
Mr and Ms B brought their complaint to this Service and one of our Investigators 
looked into what happened. He explained he would look at events up until the final 
response letter, and not ongoing claims management, and didnt uphold the 
complaint.
oHe said the choice of economically settling the claim sat with UKI. And that 
around 75% of the indemnity had already been expended  and in turn he 
wasnt persuaded to direct UKI to meet Mr and Ms Bs request. And he said 
their understanding of the PERG rules on this topic was incorrect.
oUKIs terms regarding assessing costs were in line with the majority of 
policies across the market and not onerous or unfair. UKI has an obligation 
and fiduciary duty to ensure the fund is used prudently, in keeping with its 
assessment of reasonable and proportionate costs. He said Mr and Ms Bs 
reference to contra proferentem didnt apply given the policy terms were 
clearly set out and not unusual in nature.
oCompany Bs lien was the primary cause of the claim stalling  and has 
prevented another solicitor taking over the claim, and UKIs proposal to 
assess Company Bs costs to date and obtain a solicitors undertaking with a 
new firm may have resolved matters. And he wasnt persuaded UKI was 
responsible for Company Bs actions or Mr and Ms Bs decision to appoint 
their own solicitors.
oHe considered Mr and Ms Bs concerns about terms of appointment and said 
an assessment of costs by a costs draftsman is the accepted process for 
assessing reasonable and necessary legal costs within the LEI marketplace. 
Given these same rules and guidelines apply so widely, he was persuaded 
UKI could rely on its standard terms of appointment.
oUKIs compensation award was in keeping with what wed expect for mistakes 
it had made around missed calls or missed appointments.
Mr and Ms B disagreed and provided a detailed response, in summary:
oUKI had unfairly varied the definition of costs (which they consider incoherent) 
to include recoverability which was used to exclude their most recent solicitor 
costs  and said this variation was not agreed by them.
oUKI intervened with Company B and therefore should be considered to have 
had influence over the claim. And it had been ignored by this Service that 
Company B was bound by terms of appointment so there is a contract in 
place between it and UKI.
oUKIs actions were negligent as Company Bs actions prejudiced both Mr and 
Ms B as well as UKI.
oOnce the matter stalled, UKI should have sought to economically settle the 
claim  and the terms ambiguity should be read in their favour.
oThe policy term around economic settlement is ambiguous and has no set 
event that triggers it. And the PERG rules are clear that a contract that grants 
one side absolute discretion over benefits is not one of insurance.
Our Investigator looked again but stood by his outcome, saying:
oHe didnt believe it was reasonable to direct UKI to make an economic settlement after three-quarters of the indemnity had been used. And 
disagreed with Mr and Ms Bs interpretation of the relevant rules.
oComplaints about any of the solicitors Mr and Ms B have instructed should be 
directed at the Legal Ombudsman. And he wasnt persuaded UKI was 
responsible for their actions.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision. Mr and Ms B 
have since sent further submissions that reiterate their concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law, regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Ms Bs submissions to this Service are extensive. Within this decision I wont 
be responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection 
of the informal nature of this Service.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made 
by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont 
consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
And for the avoidance of any doubt, my role here is to consider UKIs handling of this 
claim as the insurer. I am not considering Company A or Company Bs actions or the 
quality of advice they provided as this falls outside of the scope of this Service.
The crux of the complaint Ive been asked to consider falls into the following 
categories.
oHas UKI acted fairly and met its obligations in handling the claim while Mr and 
Ms Bs solicitors were appointed?
oShould UKI have voided any solicitor costs in light of whats happened?
oShould UKI have provided an economic settlement as Mr and Ms B have 
requested?
UKIs handling
In this case its evident Mr and Ms B hold Company B responsible for poor service. 
And as I have outlined, this isnt something I can hold UKI accountable  unless I 
was persuaded there were obvious and avoidable delays which it was aware of and 
failed to address.
UKI has acknowledged some service failings and made awards for this. These were 
related to call backs and accuracy of information provided by its staff. But Ive 
reviewed everything provided, and while in places its possible UKI couldve acted 
faster or provided better service, Im satisfied the sums awarded are sufficient in 
recognising any such mistakes. 
Mr and Ms B say this Service should hold UKI accountable for Company Bs actions given it has taken control of the claim. But Im not persuaded this is the case above 
and beyond its normal role of setting out terms of appointment and dealing with the 
solicitor as I would expect an insurer to. So this doesnt change my mind.
Voidance of costs from indemnity
Mr and Ms Bs policy allows it to assess costs to ensure it is paying necessary and 
reasonable costs. I dont consider these terms to be unusual or unfair.
Mr and Ms B say UKI should void Company Bs costs due to its actions and delays. 
But as UKI has said  it is its decision to determine whether or not terms of its 
appointment have been breached, not Mr and Ms Bs. And in turn, despite Mr and Ms 
B strong feeling on the matter, I see no persuasive reason why UKI would simply 
dismiss the costs incurred by Company B without undergoing an assessment of 
costs. This would be common practice and to be expected  so I dont consider this a 
failing on UKIs part. 
Economic settlement
Mr and Ms B have said the policy terms regarding economic settlement are unfair. 
And theyve quoted PERG guidelines that make reference to an insurer having 
absolute discretion of whether a benefit is provided on the occurrence of an uncertain 
event are not contracts of insurance. And they argue in the absence of this term 
being fair or clear, it should be read in their favour  that is to say UKI should provide 
them with an economic settlement.
These terms read:
We can decide to settle your claim by paying you the compensation you are 
likely to be awarded by a court instead of starting or continuing your claim or 
legal proceedings
While this does leave this decision at UKIs discretion, this is common amongst 
insurance contracts of this nature  that is to say the option of how to settle a claim 
will often fall to an insurer to determine  as the policy allows UKI the option here. 
UKI has decided to settle a claim by covering legal costs up until the indemnity. And 
the purpose of this insurance is to provide cover for legal costs, which is what UKI 
has done. So, I dont agree these are a breach of any such PERG rules or any 
others, nor that they are inherently unfair  as the benefit is still being provided  just 
not the benefit Mr and Ms B want. 
Taking into account the circumstances (with such a large proportion of the indemnity 
already used), Im satisfied UKIs decision to not economically settle the matter is fair.
Other issues
Mr and Ms B have complained about service provided by UKI. Im satisfied the 
compensation it has already offered and paid is fair and reasonable. And will not be 
looking to direct it to do anything further.
Mr and Ms B have raised issues that have gone far beyond the final response letter 
issued by UKI. These arent issues I will look to address as they fall outside the 
scope of this decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman