DRN-3992712
The complaint
Mr L complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited were unfair in asking him to 
make a claim on his own car insurance policy. Reference to Mr L will include representations 
made by those on his behalf. The same can be said for Mulsanne.
What happened
Mr L was involved in a road traffic incident in June 2022. Hes explained that there were four 
cars in a queue which were involved, and that it was the fault of the car at the back of the 
queue. Mr L says he has a police crime reference number and that there was a witness who 
said the driver of the car at the back wasnt paying attention to what was in front of him.
Mr L contacted Mulsanne, who referred him to an accident management company. Those 
companies will sometimes take on non-fault claims. But, on this occasion they said they 
couldnt help Mr L because his car had a personalised number plate.
Mr L was unhappy with that. He tried to claim from the third-party insurer of the person he 
felt was at fault for the damage to his car, but they wouldnt deal with him as he wasnt their 
customer.
Mr L felt that was unfair. He didnt want to claim on his own insurance policy because it 
would mean paying a £450 excess and could impact his no claim discount. Mulsanne said to 
Mr L that if he couldnt claim from the third-party insurer and didnt want to claim on his own 
policy then he would be responsible for any losses he incurred.
Agreement couldnt be reached on a way forward, so the case was brought to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter and felt that Mulsanne had acted appropriately. It 
was Mr Ls choice not to claim on his policy and because of that Mulsanne wouldnt be able 
to help him.
Mr L maintained that was unfair. He said why should he suffer a loss when he wasnt at-fault 
for the matter. Mr L asked for an Ombudsman decision, so the case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I dont think Mulsanne have treated him unfairly. Ill explain 
why.
The way motor insurance works  in general  is that a customer will claim on their own 
insurance policy. That will usually require the payment of an excess and can have an impact 
on no claim discount.
Once that has happened, and the customers insurer has had an outlay (i.e. payment of the 
claim) they will consider whether they can recover that outlay from a third-party, such as the 
at-fault drivers insurer. If theyre successful in doing so, then the non-fault party may be able 
to recover their excess  and in some circumstances  have their no claim discount 
reinstated. An insurer wont usually get involved until a claim has been made because there 
is nothing for them to recover.
An alternative to that is to use an accident management company. They tend to work in a 
slightly different way. For example, they might ask the customer (in this case Mr L) to sign a 
form which sets out what service they will provide. It doesnt mean the customer still cant 
incur a loss though, the accident management company is unlikely to be able to guarantee 
recovery from the third-party insurer. And if they cant make a recovery, the customer could 
end up with a bill to pay for things like storage or hire costs.
Neither is perfect in the eyes of many customers, particularly those who dont consider 
themselves to be in any way to blame for what happened. But that alone doesnt make it 
unfair. In any event, this case is against Mulsanne as the insurer, so my focus is on what 
they did.
First of all, they referred Mr L to an accident management company. Thats reasonable, 
since he didnt want to claim on his own insurance and suffer the (initial, at least) impact of 
paying his excess. And when that was unsuccessful, Mulsanne explained to Mr L that if he 
couldnt claim directly from the third-party insurer then his only other options were to claim 
on his policy with them  or cover the loss himself.
I fully understand why Mr L found the options available to him to be unfair. But I dont think 
what has happened here is out of the ordinary or goes against regular industry practice.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mulsanne didnt treat Mr L unfairly in saying hed need to claim on 
his own policy in order for them to help him.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman