DRN-3417596
Complaint
Ms J is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do more to protect 
her when she was the victim of a scam.
Background
In January 2019, Ms J was the victim of an investment scam. Shed been looking for 
investment opportunities online and found the details of a fixed-rate bond. The bond offered 
an annual rate of 6.95% and was due to mature in late 2025. 
Communications she had with the scammer were professional in tone and it seemed like she 
was dealing with an authentic investment firm. Unfortunately, she wasnt. She was instead 
communicating with a scammer that had created a cloned firm  that is, a fake company 
designed to look indistinguishable from a legitimate one to scam would-be investors out of 
their money. She was provided with fake documentation relating to the investment that lent 
the scam an air of legitimacy. She made three payments of £10,000 in total.
Ms J tells us that she was uncertain about the investment at the time. But the scammers 
were able to provide seemingly credible answers to all her questions. She asked whether the 
firm was regulated by the FCA and whether her investment was covered by the FSCS. 
Unfortunately, the scammers had cloned a genuine regulated firm. That meant it was that 
firm which she found information about when she searched online. This provided her with 
the false reassurance that the investment was legitimate.
It was only in April 2019 when her emails regarding unpaid interest went unanswered that 
she became concerned she might have fallen victim to a scam. Since shed made her 
transfer, an announcement had been posted on the FCA website warning customers about a 
cloned firm.  This confirmed her suspicions and she notified NatWest. NatWest didnt agree 
to refund the payments. It said it had done everything it could to recover her money from the 
scammers account at the receiving bank. Ms J was unhappy with the response she received 
from NatWest and so she referred her complaint to this service. 
It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator briefly summarised 
the obligations that NatWest was expected to meet at the time. He said that it had to be on 
the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions that might be connected to fraud. In 
this instance, the Investigator thought the payment didnt look sufficiently unusual or out of 
character and so he didnt think NatWest needed to intervene. Ms J had recently made a 
payment of a similar size and, after the scam, the account still had a significant balance.
The Investigator also said that, even if NatWest had intervened and questioned the 
payments before allowing them to be processed, he didnt think it wouldve prevented the 
scam. He concluded that, if it had asked Ms J about the purpose of the payment, shed 
simply have confirmed that it was to invest in a fixed-rate bond. All the other contextual 
information wouldve made the investment seem plausible. 
Ms J disagreed with the Investigators opinion. Overall, she thought that NatWest had failed 
to carry out due diligence and act in her best interests before allowing the payment to go 
through. She was unhappy that the Investigator supported his findings by pointing out that, 
after the scam, there was a significant balance left in the account. She thought the 
implication of this was that a scam doesnt matter if the victim still has money left over.
She also didnt understand why the Investigator was so certain about what she wouldve 
done if NatWest had handled things differently. She says that, if shed been warned about 
the risk of an investment scam, shed certainly have proceeded far more cautiously and most 
likely wouldnt have gone ahead with the investment.
Because Ms J disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Ms J authorised the scam payments. She was tricked by the 
scammers into instructing her bank to transfer those sums on the basis that she was 
investing her money in a legitimate fixed-rate bond. I accept that this was an authorised 
payment even though Ms J was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She used her security 
credentials to request the payments. She didnt intend the money to go to the scammers. 
Nonetheless, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of 
her account she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NatWest should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive considered the facts of this case carefully in the light of NatWests obligations and Im 
not persuaded it did anything wrong in failing to intervene and question these payments with 
Ms J.  I say that because I dont think there was anything about them that ought to have put 
it on notice that Ms J was at risk of fraud. The largest payment Ms J made in connection with 
the scam was for £8,500. In the six months before the scam, Ms J made several payments 
that were larger than this, including payments for £10,000 and £45,000 in November and 
December and January respectively. In the light of those payments, I dont think a payment 
of £8,500 wouldve seemed unusual or out of character.  
The Investigator argued that the fact that Ms J still had quite a large balance in the account 
after the scam was also a relevant factor. That isnt to say that Ms J isnt the victim of a scam. However, all else being the same, a rapidly diminishing account balance would 
suggest a greater likelihood of fraud. 
Nevertheless, even if I found that NatWest ought to have been concerned about these 
payments, Im not persuaded that a proportionate intervention on its part wouldve prevented 
the scam from taking place. As Ms J pointed out in response to the Investigators view, I 
cannot know for certain what she wouldve done if events had transpired differently. Where 
there is such uncertainty, I must reach a decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, I 
must consider whether the available evidence suggests its more likely than not that the 
payments wouldve been prevented if NatWest had intervened.
Im not persuaded that was the case here. If NatWest had questioned the payments with 
Ms J, its unlikely theyd have uncovered that she had been targeted by scammers. She was 
investing in a fixed-rate bond and all the communications shed had with the scammers had 
been professional in tone and content. She had already carried out some basic checks to 
ensure the legitimacy of the investment, including searching the FCA website. Even if an 
employee of the bank had recommended, she carry out further checks, I think its unlikely 
shed have uncovered anything that wouldve dissuaded her from making the payments.
I recognise that if a bank employee had carried out their own checks with an unusual degree 
of thoroughness, its possible that they couldve uncovered that the investment was not a 
genuine one. However, I think such a response wouldve been disproportionate, given that 
these payments didnt have the hallmarks of a typical scam. 
With the benefit of hindsight, it is now known that Ms J was the victim of a scam. However, I 
need to consider whether NatWest ought to have recognised that risk at the time, given what 
it knew. Ms J has questioned the relevance of whether NatWest couldve identified that this 
was a scam. After all, it could simply have warned her about the risks involved in making the 
payment. This might have made her rethink what she was doing and so prevented the loss.
But it isnt practical or realistic to expect NatWest to intervene on or question all payments. 
There is a balancing act to be struck between monitoring accounts for fraud and allowing 
legitimate payments to be made. I know that my decision will be hugely disappointing to Ms 
J. I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that she has been the victim of a 
cruel and cynical scam. But unfortunately, in all the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied 
NatWest made no error in processing these payments without questioning them further.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman