DRN-3103551
The complaint
Miss M complains that Madison CF UK Limited (118 118 Money) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss M was given a loan by 118 118 Money. It was for £1000 and was due to be repaid over 
24 months. Miss M took this loan out in June 2016 and the monthly repayment would be 
£80.28.
Miss Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the
checks 118 118 Money had carried out had been proportionate. He also concluded that it 
had made a fair lending decision.
Miss M didnt agree with our investigator. She provided bank statements to support her 
complaint that 118 118 Money lent to her irresponsibly.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Miss M accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Miss Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time 118 118 Money gave these loans to Miss M required it 
to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay 
what she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss M. 
In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to ensure that making the repayments 
wouldnt cause Miss M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt 
enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it 
had to consider the impact of any repayments on Miss M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether 118 118 Money did what it needed to before 
agreeing to lend to Miss M.
118 118 Money gathered some information from Miss M before it agreed to lend. It asked 
Miss M about her income and expenditure. It carried out a credit check and used this to work 
out her credit commitments. It also carried out what it called an affordability report on Miss 
M.
Miss M was entering into a significant commitment with 118 118 Money. She was agreeing 
to make monthly repayments for a period of two years for £80.28. So, I think it is right that 
118 118 Money wanted to gather, and independently check (through the credit search), 
some information about Miss Ms financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I 
think that the checks it did achieved that aim. I think on balance its checks were 
proportionate. It was Miss Ms first loan with 118 118 Money and based on what it gathered, 
I think it was enough information in order to inform its decision to lend on this occasion. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
118 118 Money gathered from Miss M to check whether I agree it was appropriate for her to 
be given the loan.
I can see that 118 118 Money had used Miss Ms declaration that her income was £1200. It 
could see that Miss M would have had enough disposable income to comfortably afford the 
loan repayments based on the expenditure that Miss M declared also. I have checked the 
credit search results that 118 118 Money would have had in front of it and also the results of 
its affordability report. The results were basic but didnt show any thing that would have 
caused it concerns. I can see Miss M had a default, but the balance had been paid off and I 
can see that she had done this over a year before she asked for this loan. Miss M had also 
recently taken out a short-term loan. But I agree with our investigator, when he concluded 
that at this stage, this was a one-off amount to be repaid. From the information it gathered 
from its checks, I think it would have been apparent to 118 118 Money that the loan was 
affordable and there was nothing that it would have had in front of it that would have shown it 
Miss M was struggling to manage her finances. Or anything that would have given it 
concerns that she couldnt repay the loan in a sustainable way.
Miss M has provided her bank statements that cover the period of time leading up to the loan 
application and I can see that regular gambling transactions on there. But, like our 
investigator, I dont think on this occasion 118 118 Money needed to carry out further checks 
that would have uncovered this, when it agreed to lend for the reasons I have already given. So, overall, I think 118 118 Money carried out proportionate checks. In addition, with the 
information it had in front of it, I think it also made a fair decision to lend. So, I dont think 118 
118 Money was wrong to give the loan to Miss M. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman