DRN-1325455
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Society of Lloyds (SOL) turned down his claim for a lost watch under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Os partner lost her designer watch. So, Mr O contacted SOL to make a claim on his 
insurance policy. A few days later SOL turned down the claim as it said it didnt have 
evidence that the watch was genuine. Mr O asked for his claim to be reconsidered. So, SOL 
appointed a company to investigate further. Following that review, SOL maintained its 
decision to turn down the claim.
Mr O complained to SOL. When SOL replied, it said that it had turned down the claim as Mr 
O hadnt been able to show that the lost item was either genuine or owned by him at the time 
of the loss. It said that if Mr O was able to provide further evidence on the purchase of the 
watch it would be willing to investigate the claim further. It also said that it hadnt identified 
any delays in handling the claim.
Mr O complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it 
was reasonable for SOL to turn down the claim because Mr O hadnt provided proof that the 
watch was genuine or that he owned it.
As Mr O did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the policy terms and conditions about what a policyholder is required to do when 
they make a claim. These said:
We will require proof of ownership and value predating the loss or damage for items over 
£2,500. If you are unable to provide this information we may choose to reduce your claim 
payment or refuse to pay your claim.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that they suffered an 
insured loss. So I dont think there is anything unusual or unreasonable in this requirement 
being included in the policy
When SOL asked for proof of ownership and value, Mr O provided a handwritten receipt that 
described the watch. The receipt said the watch was sold without any paperwork and that it 
was purchased for cash for £8,250. Mr O also provided a photo of someones wrist with a 
watch on it, extracts from bank statements highlighting a number of transactions over a 
period of months, a screenshot of an email showing he had reported a lost item to a website 
and an advert from an online marketplace showing the watch described. He also said that 
when he bought the watch, he took three people with him who knew a lot about designer 
watches.
SOL has said that it would normally want to see a service history, the box and the certificate 
before accepting a claim for a designer watch. I think that is reasonable, but Ive thought 
about whether what Mr O provided was sufficient alternative proof, given that he said the 
reason he was able to buy the watch at the price he did was because the seller was unable 
to provide the items that would normally come with the watch.
Looking at what Mr O provided, I dont think that individually or collectively they showed that 
the watch was genuine and provided proof of ownership. For example, Mr O provided a 
handwritten receipt on a piece of paper that appeared to have been from a notepad. 
Although the receipt said the watch was genuine and included what might be a date, I dont 
think it provided clear evidence that the watch was genuine or was purchased on the date 
that Mr O said. The bank statements showed a number of transactions, but they didnt show 
that the money was used to pay for the watch. The screenshot from a website seemed to be 
of an advert after the watch was lost and the photos of someone wearing a watch didnt help 
to show that Mr O owned a genuine designer watch. Im aware that Mr O said he also took 
people with him who were familiar with the designer make of watch, but SOL said that these 
people owned the same make of watch, not that they were jewellers or had similar expertise.
So, in my view, I think that SOL gave Mr O the opportunity to provide evidence to support his 
claim. On the basis of the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for SOL to turn down 
the claim because there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that the watch was genuine or to 
demonstrate proof of ownership. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint or 
require SOL to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is Mr O. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman