DRN-2874020
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, should not 
have increased his credit limit as he could not afford the credit they provided.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about the challenges Mr B faced and I know it will come as a 
disappointment to him, but Im afraid I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide credit a business should check that its affordable. The type of 
checks which a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether Very carried out proportionate checks, 
and at what information they had been given about Mr Bs financial circumstances.
The methods Very used to establish affordability were for them to decide but the practices 
and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could be 
proportionate to the amount of money being requested.
Mr B opened his credit account in November 2014 with a credit limit of £250. His credit limit 
was increased on seven occasions and reached a maximum of £3,600 in July 2018 before 
Mr B asked the business to reduce it. 
Very have explained that when they initially approved the credit account they would have 
checked Mr Bs income and expenditure. They havent been able to provide that information 
because of the time thats passed but they have been able to provide evidence of the 
information they were provided by the credit reference agencies. Ive seen that they 
considered there were no county court judgements registered, that Mr B was up to date on 
all the accounts hed opened in the last 24 months, that hed only opened one recent 
account and that he had credit of about £2,100 elsewhere. They also noted the presence of 
a default which they took into account when deciding to authorise the account. 
Very would not have expected Mr Bs credit file to be very strong as they routinely lend to 
people with lower credit scores and therefore take higher risks and inevitably charge higher 
interest rates to cover this. They have explained that they use their own processes to 
establish a customer specific risk score. Its for them to establish the methods that they use 
to check creditworthiness and I think that the processes they have explained seem 
reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit they were providing.
The terms of the credit account allow Very to vary credit limits without approval, but 
consumers can opt out of those increases or request lower ones. I can see that Mr B is 
currently opted out.
Ive considered whether any of the increases Mr B received between 2015 and 2018 were 
irresponsibly made. I dont think they were.
Mr B wasnt using all the credit that was supplied. He was regularly well within his credit limit 
and his monthly payments were almost always in excess of the minimum required on his 
account. Very have explained that they would have considered his account performance 
when considering the credit limit increases they were offering. I dont think there was 
anything in the account performance that would have raised concerns. Mr B was managing 
his account well.
Very have explained that they also considered information from the credit reference 
agencies that was received every 28 days. I can understand that they wouldnt want to share 
that information with consumers as it is commercially sensitive. The information they 
received, in tandem with Mr Bs good account performance, demonstrated to them that Mr B 
did not appear to be over indebted. Having reviewed the information provided by the 
business I think that was a reasonable and proportionate approach and I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence the business lending was irresponsible.
Mr Bs account fell into arrears for the first time in February 2019 although he was able to 
bring his account up to date again. His indebtedness was increasing around that time and 
Very upheld a complaint he made to them accepting that a lower limit should have been 
applied. But they explained that lower limit hadnt been exceeded by Mr B and there was 
therefore no detriment to him.  
So, having reviewed the credit limit approvals that have been made here Im afraid that, 
whilst I have the upmost sympathy for the difficult situation Mr B found himself in, I dont 
think there is sufficient evidence Very provided credit irresponsibly or that the credit was 
unaffordable for Mr B. Im not therefore asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman