DRN-3405173
The complaint
Miss R has complained about the market value settlement Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited paid for her car when she made a claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss R made a claim to her insurer Admiral following an incident. An engineer appointed by 
Admiral declared Miss Rs car uneconomical to repair and so Admiral settled Miss Rs claim 
by paying her the market value of it. 
Miss R said the settlement amount wasnt enough to enable her to buy a similar car at a 
dealership garage. This was where she bought her previous car from. 
Our Investigator found that Admiral had reached its valuation reasonably and in line with the 
policy. So she didnt recommend Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. 
Miss R didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation but we can look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
in a reasonable way. And we look to see if it has done so in line with the policy terms. 
Miss Rs policy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of her car 
at the time of loss. It defines the term market value as:
the cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the main motor trade 
guides are a reliable way to reach a valuation for a car. They are based on national research 
of likely selling prices for a car of the same make, model, age, condition and mileage as Miss 
Rs. We look at the retail transacted valuation. This is the average sum of what Miss R  or 
anyone  might pay for a similar car from a retail garage. 
We find the guides are more reliable than adverts as advertised prices can vary widely, 
based on what a seller believes a car is worth, and tend to have a margin built in for 
negotiating the price down.
Having checked the guides, they showed that the valuation Admiral reached was within the 
range of the guides. So I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably. 
I understand Miss R will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Admiral reached its 
valuation in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to pay any 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman