DRN-1826729
The complaint
Miss E complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2018 Miss E was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was 6 years old and had covered 
59,000 miles.
Miss E experienced issues with the car smoking in the first two weeks but thought this might 
be due to the cold weather. The smoking got worse and in February 2019 the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) light illuminated.
Miss E took the car back to the supplying dealer and reported the issues and was advised to 
change where she purchased her fuel from.
Miss E says she changed her fuel but the car continued to smoke. She took the car back to 
the dealer again in April 2019. The car was inspected but no faults were found. 
Miss E took the car back to the dealership again in June 2019 because it was over-revving. 
The dealership said there were no faults.
Miss E was driving on the motorway in June 2019 when the car broke down. It was 
recovered by a motor rescue organisation who said the engine had run away. Miss E was 
advised not to re-start the engine.
The supplying dealer collected the car in June 2019 and replaced two of the injector valves. 
The car was returned to Miss E on 9 July 2019, but it broke down again on 10 July 2019 and 
was recovered to the dealer. Miss E raised a complaint with MotoNovo.
The dealership said the fault wasnt due to the repairs it had carried out to the two injectors 
and refused to accept liability.
MotoNovo arranged an independent inspection of the car in August 2019. The inspection 
concluded that the two injectors which had been replaced by the dealer were clean but the 
other two were corroded. It also found that the DPF light was illuminated and that there was 
a knocking noise when the engine was running. The engineer concluded that the engine oil 
was contaminated with diesel fuel and that the oil was high on the dipstick, which was 
consistent with defective fuel injectors or repeated failed regeneration of the DPF. The 
engineer said the injectors were likely to have failed due to wear and tear and that the faults 
were unlikely to have been present at the point of supply. It was recommended that the two 
defective fuel injectors and the DPF were replaced.
Based on the findings of the independent report, MotoNovo advised Miss E that it wasnt 
upholding her complaint, because it hadnt been shown that the faults were present at the 
point of supply. 
Miss E was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. Since bringing her 
complaint shes had the car repaired at a cost of over £5000. She wants MotoNovo to meet 
these costs.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that the fault had more likely than not been 
developing at the point of supply, and that the replacement of the two injectors hadnt 
resolved the issue. The investigator also said a reasonable person would expect these faults 
so soon after purchase and felt that the engine wasnt sufficiently durable. 
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that although the DPF light illuminated in February 2019, this 
was a different fault to the over revving reported in June 2019, and there was no evidence to 
suggest that the two faults were related. MotoNovo also said that when Miss E returned the 
car to the dealer in June 2019 for the over revving problem, the dealership had carried out a 
diagnostic which showed that the injectors were working correctly at this time. MotoNovo 
said the independent report stated that the repairs to the injectors hadnt failed and that it 
was two different injectors causing the current fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
including, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
I would expect a second-hand car, such as that supplied to Miss E, to have a degree of wear 
and tear. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had 
an inherent fault, as opposed to issues caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business 
can show otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to fix the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
Ive reviewed the timelines here. Miss E experienced problems with the car smoking and the 
DPF illuminating within the first few weeks. Based on what Ive seen, when Miss E took the 
car back to the dealer in March 2019, no diagnostics or repairs were carried out. The issues 
continued and Miss E retuned to the dealer again but when the dealer carried out a 
diagnostic, no faults were found. There is information to suggest that Miss E had visited a 
different garage who had cleared the fault codes, so its possible that the diagnostic 
undertaken by the dealer did give a true picture of whether the car had a fault at this time. I 
can see that the car broke down and the dealer replaced two injectors in June 2019 but that 
the car broke down again the following day.
Ive considered the findings of the independent engineer. The report says injectors 1 and 2 
require replacement and that the DPF light should also be replaced. The engine oil was 
found to be contaminated with fuel which the engineer said was consistent with defective 
injectors and/or failed regeneration of the DPF. The engineer concluded the failed injectors 
were due to wear and tear and that vehicle use may have contributed to failed DPF 
regeneration.Ive taken into account the comments from MotoNovo. It says the DPF fault which occurred 
in February 2019 is different to the over revving fault reported in June 2019. It says the two 
faults werent related and that the cause of the fault in June 2019 was due to the two 
injectors which hadnt been repaired by the dealer.
Ive reviewed all of the evidence, but Im not persuaded that it points to the conclusions that 
MotoNovo has drawn here. Theres no dispute that Miss E reported issues with the DPF 
illuminating within the first 6 months. Even if the DPF fault was due to use of the car (and Im 
not saying it was), I wouldnt expect the DPF light to illuminate so soon after the point of 
supply. Whilst effective regeneration of the DPF can be affected by the way a car is driven, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Miss E was using the car in such a way. Ive also 
taken into account the fact that Miss E reported the car smoking within the first two weeks. 
Again, I wouldnt expect a car to smoke within a short time of the inception of finance and I 
think this points towards a conclusion that there was a fault with the car which was present 
or developing at the point of supply.
I cant see that the dealer made any attempt to resolve the issue with the car smoking and 
the illuminated DPF. Given the short amount of time since the point of supply, I would have 
expected the dealer to carry out a diagnostic and /or force a regeneration of the DPF to see 
whether there were any issues. Instead it appears that Miss E was simply told to change 
where she purchased her fuel. 
I appreciate that the dealer found no faults with the injectors when it carried out a diagnostic 
in June 2019. MotoNovo has said that this shows that the injectors were working as 
expected at this time and that injectors can fail instantaneously. However, I think this ignores 
the other issues which Miss E had experienced with the smoking and the DPF since early on 
in the agreement, both of which are possible signs of fuel injector issues. A diagnostic will 
only pick up error codes if these have been logged by the engine control unit. Its possible 
that a faulty injector might not generate a code unless it has deteriorated beyond a certain 
point.
The independent report identifies faulty injectors and failed regeneration of the DPF as the 
cause of the engine oil becoming contaminated with fuel. The engineers report refers to the 
car smoking in April 2019, but Miss E has been clear in her testimony that the smoking 
began two weeks after the point of supply. The independent engineer hasnt mentioned the 
historic illumination of the DPF either. So, Ive got concerns that the engineer wasnt 
provided with a full history of the issues Miss E has experienced with the car. The engineer 
has said that failed regeneration of the DPF may be caused by use of the car, but he doesnt 
conclude that this was actually the case, and this leaves open the possibility that failed 
regeneration of the DPF can be caused by other issues.
On balance and taking into account the early issues which Miss E experienced and the 
concerns Ive mentioned above in relation to the independent report, I think its more likely 
than not that the car had a fault which was present or developing at the point of supply. Ive 
taken the age and mileage of the car into account, but I still dont think a reasonable person 
would expect to experience a car smoking and the DPF illuminating within such a time of the 
point of supply. And I dont think the dealer did enough to investigate these issues when they 
were first reported by Miss E.
Ive also taken into account that the dealer attempted repair to two of the injectors in June 
2019. However, Im not persuaded that this resolved the issues because the car broke down 
the next day. 
Putting things rightMiss E has since had the car repaired. Due to all the issues shes experienced, she was left 
without a car for around 3 months. I think its fair that she should receive a refund of her 
monthly payments made during this time.
Its clear that this experience has caused distress and inconvenience to Miss E. Shes had to 
return the car to the dealership at least 3 times and shed been left waiting for a recovery 
vehicle twice, once when the car broke down the first time and again when the car broke 
down following the attempted repairs. I think MotoNovo should pay compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss E.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must 
Reimburse the cost of repairs of £5,278.81 together with simple interest at 8% from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund three monthly payments
Pay compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman