DRN-4236009
The complaint
Mr O complains that Elevate Portfolio Services Limited (Elevate) failed to complete the 
transfer of his pension savings to another provider in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mr O held pension savings with Elevate that he decided to transfer to another provider  
I will call that firm G. G submitted a transfer request to Elevate using the automated 
Origo Options system. It was received by Elevate on 21 September 2021. Elevate sold 
Mr Os pension investments and transferred the resulting proceeds to G on 4 October.
But Elevate failed to correctly update the Origo system with the progress of the transfer  it 
failed to update the system to show that Mr Os funds had been sent. I can see that G placed 
an update request to Elevate on the Origo system the day after the transfer had been made. 
But Elevate says that it either failed to notice that request, or that it failed to act on it.
Around two weeks later, on 19 September, Mr Os financial advisor got in touch with Elevate 
to query the status of the transfer. He was told that the payment had been made on 
4 October. But Elevate still failed to correctly update the payment status meaning that G 
remained unable to apply the funds to Mr Os new pension plan. The financial advisor 
contacted Elevate again on 21 October, asking for the payment status to be updated. And he 
called again the following day when no changes had been made. Following that call Elevate 
corrected the Origo record to show the funds had been sent.
Mr O complained to Elevate about the delay. He said that his pension savings had been held 
in cash, rather than invested, for an extended period of time due to Elevates failure to 
update the Origo transfer information. He asked that Elevate calculate whether he had lost 
out as a result of the delayed investment of his pension savings.
Elevate agreed that it had been at fault in not correctly updating the transfer information for 
around two weeks. But it didnt agree that failure should have prevented G from allocating 
the inbound payment to Mr Os pension plan, and investing his pension savings. So it didnt 
think it was necessary to calculate whether Mr O had lost out  it said any losses were the 
responsibility of G. Unhappy with that response, Mr O brought his complaint to us.
Mr Os complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Elevate 
was responsible for the delay to the investment of Mr Os pension savings. So he asked 
Elevate to work out whether the delay had caused Mr O to lose out, and if appropriate to pay 
him some compensation.
Elevate didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr O accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr O and by Elevate. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
There have been three regulated businesses involved in the transfer of Mr Os pension 
savings. Elevate originally held Mr Os pension plan before his monies were transferred to G. 
And Mr O was assisted in making the transfer by his financial advisor. But this complaint 
only relates to the actions of Elevate. It wouldnt be appropriate in this decision for me to find 
that other parties should pay Mr O compensation. But I have considered whether the actions 
of those parties might reasonably reduce, or entirely remove, any compensation that might 
be due to Mr O from Elevate.
Elevate accepts that it failed to correctly update the transfer status on the Origo system to 
show that the funds had been sent to G. But it says that shouldnt have prevented G from 
adding those funds to Mr Os pension plan, and so he should have been able to invest the 
transferred funds as soon as that had happened. But I dont agree.
I dont think it is reasonable for Elevate to dictate how the processes of another firm should 
be structured. G has said that it has very clear processes to ensure the safety and integrity 
of any client monies that it receives. It says that it uses the updated funds sent status on 
the Origo system to authorise the matching of incoming payments and their allocation to a 
consumers pension plan. I dont think that is an unreasonable approach to take.
So, when Elevate failed to correctly update the payment status, G was unable to match the 
transferred funds that it received. I can see that, on the day after receipt of the funds, it 
contacted Elevate to ask that the payment status was updated, but no response was 
received. I accept that it might have been appropriate for G to make further requests of 
Elevate for action to be taken. But it does seem that it kept Mr O and his financial advisor 
updated, and allowed the financial advisor to chase Elevate on Mr Os behalf.
Elevate has said that it might have been more appropriate for G to return the transferred 
funds if it had been unable to match them. And I am sure that is ultimately what G would 
have done. But I cannot see that approach would reduce the potential investment loss that 
Mr O now faces. His pension savings would still have been uninvested. But, instead of sitting 
unmatched with G, theyd just be within the banking system being returned to Elevate.
I think that, ultimately, the responsibility for any loss that Mr O has suffered through the 
delayed investment of his pension savings, falls to Elevate. It initially failed to correctly 
update the transfer information. It failed to act on a reminder from G for the update to be 
made. And it wasnt until after a second request from Mr Os financial advisor, that matters 
were corrected.So I think that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. Elevate now needs to establish whether 
the delayed investment of Mr Os pension savings has caused him to lose out, and if so to 
pay him appropriate compensation as set out below.
Putting things right
Mr Os pension savings were invested by G two working days after it received confirmation 
of the transfer. I think it is reasonable to conclude that similar investment timescales would 
have applied if nothing had gone wrong. So Mr Os pension savings should have been 
invested two working days after G should have received confirmation the funds had been 
sent  the investment should have taken place on 6 October 2021.
So, to put things right, Elevate should;
Establish, with the assistance of G, the investments Mr O could have made, had the 
funds been available for investment on 6 October 2021. Elevate should assume that 
the funds would have been invested at that time in identical proportions to the 
investments Mr O made when the transfer status was finally updated.
Calculate what those investments would have been notionally worth at the time 
Mr Os pension savings were actually invested. If the notional value is greater than 
the transferred value, Mr O has suffered a loss and should be paid the difference,
Any difference that is to be paid as compensation should be increased (or reduced) 
to reflect the overall gains (or losses) experienced across Mr Os pension savings 
with G between the date the transfer actually completed and the date of this final 
decision.
Elevate should pay into Mr O's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation plus investment returns. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Elevate is unable to pay the total amount into Mr O's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr O wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Os expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. I think its reasonable to assume that Mr O is likely 
to be a higher rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would 
equal 40%. However, as Mr O would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 30%.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct Elevate Portfolio Services 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman