DRN-1641377
 
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs M in 1998, in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr M if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product 
it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
-           Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs M are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs M say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that Halifax didn't give 
them a proper choice. They say Halifax gave them the impression they had to buy the PPI to 
get the mortgage they wanted. I've noted everything Mr and Mrs M have said.
The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure exactly what was discussed between Mr and Mrs 
M and Halifax when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.I've also reviewed the documents from the time the policy was sold. From what I've seen, 
there was nothing in the documents to suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting 
the mortgage.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs M have told me, I dont think I can 
fairly and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-           Mr M was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-           Mr M says he was entitled to employer benefits if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident, and that he and Mrs M had some savings and investments. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to Mr M's employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr and Mrs M could use Mr M's employer benefits 
and their savings and investments to pay for other expenses. So I think the policy wouldve 
been useful to them.
-           Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs M 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
-          The PPI cost was included in the quote Mr and Mrs M received before their mortgage 
started. So I think they would've known how much they would be paying for the policy and 
found it acceptable. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think 
it unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr M wasn't affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman