DRN-3929956
The complaint
Mrs A complains about charges when she returned her car at the end of a hire agreement 
provided by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS). 
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs A acquired a new car using a hire agreement with MBFS. She 
initially took the agreement over a period of three years. The agreement was then extended 
by a further three months. When the agreement came to an end, Mrs A handed the car back 
and it was inspected for damage in February 2022.  
MBFS then sent Mrs A an invoice and told her she owed £817.50 for damage to the car, 
including different charges for two alloy wheels. Mrs A, unhappy with the charges, 
complained to MBFS.
MBFS responded to Mrs A and said theyll uphold an element of her complaint. They 
removed the charge for the rear right tyre. And they explained the reason there was a 
difference in the cost of charges to the alloy wheels was because the left alloy couldnt be 
repaired but had to be replaced. They also explained why they felt the charges were outside 
of their vehicle return standards (VRS).
This meant the remaining charged damages consisted of:
Front left alloy wheel  replace £397.75
Front right alloy wheel  refurbishment £110.00
Rear left tyre  replace £149.22
Parcel shelf strap  replace £11.31
TOTAL £668.28
Mrs A, unhappy with MBFS response, referred her complaint to our service. She said she 
doesnt believe all the charges applied are fair. Mrs A says she has paid for the charges for 
the right alloy and the parcel shelf strap, which means the remaining charges still owed 
amount to £546.97. Mrs A believes the only outstanding charge should be for the left alloy 
and believes the charge should be £110, which is the same price as the right alloy shes 
already paid for.
Our investigator found that MBFS had fairly charged Mrs A for the parcel shelf strap and the 
right alloy wheel. For the left alloy wheel, the investigator said that the charge should be 
reduced to the cost of a repair. For the left rear tyre, the investigator wasnt persuaded the 
inspection images shown enough damage to fall outside of fair wear and tear.
MBFS disagreed with the investigators findings. They said the left alloy wheel will need to 
be replaced as there are large chunks missing. The left rear tyre they say has a bulge in it 
and is severely cracked.
As MBFS disagreed, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2023 where I explained why I intended to 
partly uphold Mrs As complaint. In that decision I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold this complaint in part.
Mrs A complains about charges in relation to a hire agreement. Entering into regulated 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs 
As complaint about MBFS.
Mrs A was charged for several different things, so Ill consider these in turn. But Ive firstly 
thought about whether MBFS could charge her for damage. Looking at the agreement she 
took, it says:
you must return the vehicle in line with Vehicle Return Standards..
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation..
So, considering this, I think Mrs A agreed to return the car in a condition in line with the VRS 
and she agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case.
Ill go on to consider if the charges were fairly applied. As well as the VRS, Ive also 
considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear 
and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA members, but Im happy this is a useful 
benchmark when considering what is fair and reasonable.
In relation to the wheels the VRS says, Minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the 
vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face... is acceptable. 
The BVRLA says, Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. And, Scuffs 
up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels/wheel hubs are 
acceptable..
Ive reviewed the photos from the inspection of the car. The photos of the front left alloy 
show three specific areas of damage along the alloy rim and they exceed 50mm in length in 
total. So Im satisfied this damage to the wheel falls outside of fair wear and tear. 
Ive gone on to consider whether MBFS have fairly charged for this, due to the severity of the 
damage. MBFS explained the wheel couldnt be refurbished, as to do so, it would need to be 
ground down to the depth of the deepest damage. It said doing so on this wheel would leave 
the rim too thin to be safe.
I think two of the areas of damage show scuffs and one of the areas clearly shows metal is 
missing from the alloy wheel in quite a deep gouge. Given this, I think MBFSs explanation 
here is reasonable for the charge. It follows, I also think MBFS have fairly charged for the 
wheel to be replaced.
While Mrs A has already paid for the damage to the front right alloy wheel, for completeness, 
I have still considered whether MBFS have fairly charged for it. The photos of the front right 
alloy wheel show scuffs exceeding 50mm in length in total. So Im satisfied this damage to 
the wheel falls outside of fair wear and tear and it follows that I think MBFS have charged 
fairly for this.In relation to tyres, the VRS says, Any gauge, crack, cut, torn or plugged tyre side wall. 
is not acceptable.
The BVRLA guidance at the point of inspection says There must be no damage to sidewalls 
or tread.
The photos of the rear left tyre show cracks in multiple areas. The cracks are along its tread 
and not along its sidewall. From the photos provided, I cant see any severe cracks or bulges 
in the tyre.
I think its debatable whether this falls outside of the BVRLA guidance, as this references 
damage, which Im not sure would apply to minor cracking.
But, either way, the VRS guidance, which is what MBFS ultimately rely on here and what 
Mrs A agreed to, only specifies damage to the sidewall. So, Im satisfied this tyre doesnt fall 
outside of the VRS. And Im satisfied in this case, it would be fair and reasonable to apply 
the test set out in the VRS.
So I dont think the damage to the tyre falls outside of fair wear and tear and it follows that I 
dont think MBFS have charged fairly for this.
In relation to interior mouldings, the VRS says, Broken or damaged interior mouldings, trim 
pads, instrument panel, sun visor, or headlining, etc is not acceptable. 
The BVRLA says, Torn or split floor coverings and damaged surrounding trim panels are 
not acceptable. It also says, Accessories such as parcel shelves, load covers, boot liners, 
restraining straps and nets must be returned with the vehicle..
Ive also had a think about the general definition of fair wear and tear. The BVRLA says, 
Fair wear and tear should not be confused with damage, which occurs as a result of a 
specific event or series or events, such as impact, inappropriate stowing of items, harsh 
treatment, negligent acts or omissions..
While Mrs A has already paid for the damage to the parcel shelf strap, for completeness, I 
have still considered whether MBFS have fairly charged for it. The photos of the parcel shelf 
strap show it as broken. So Im satisfied this damage falls outside of fair wear and tear and it 
follows that I think MBFS have charged fairly for this.
I set out that I intended to partly uphold this complaint. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
MBFS responded and said they accept my provisional decision.
Mrs A hadnt responded to my provisional decision before the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As MBFS accepted my provisional decision and Mrs A hadnt responded, I see no reason to 
depart from its conclusions.In summary, I think MBFS has wrongfully charged Mrs A for the damage to the rear left tyre 
and fairly applied the wear and tear guidelines in the other areas being charged which I have 
looked into.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to remove the charge for the rear left tyre.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman