DRN-4083632
The complaint
Mr K, who is represented by a professional representative (PR) complains that he was mis- 
sold a holiday product and Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF) failed to accept his claim for a refund.
What happened
In April 2006 Mr K and his wife purchased a holiday club membership with a company I will 
call R. We have limited documentation but it seems this cost £29,500 which was funded by 
two loans taken out with BPF. One was in Mr Ks name and the other was in his wifes name.
This complaint concerns only Mr Ks loan and that taken out by Mrs K is dealt with 
separately. To keep things simple I will refer to Mr K as being the sole purchaser. While the 
sale appears to have taken place in 2006, the certificates look to have been issued in 2008. 
The membership and holiday periods on the 2008 certificates tie into the 2006 purchase 
agreement so it appears payment on the purchase may have been deferred until 2008.
BPF has been able to identify two loans made to Mr K. One (4423) was set up on 14 August 
2008 and was settled on 26 March 2009. The second, a fixed sum loan agreement (1250) 
was setup on 14 November 2008 and settled on 14 November 2018.
BPF no longer hold the details for either loan, but the statement it managed to find for loan 
4423 contains Rs name. It has been presumed that this loan was used to fund the 
2006/2008 purchase. Our investigator thought the second loan (1250) was taken out to 
settle the earlier agreement which had likely reached the end of its term/interest free period.
PR submitted a letter of claim in May 2017 which said there had been an unfair relationship 
because commission was paid by BPF to R. It said the time limits set out by the Limitation 
Act (LA) were extended by s. 32 LA due to the fact commission had been concealed.
BPF rejected the claim saying PR had no evidence commission had been paid and it was 
under no obligation to disclose if it had been paid. It also said that R wasnt its agent.
A complaint was made to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He took the view the second loan was to replace the 
first and so was connected with the original purchase. He said that the events complained 
about took place more than six years before a complaint was made and so it was out of time.
However, he went on to say Mr K may not have been aware of his right to complain until 
more recently and so he felt this brought the complaint back within the time limits. He also 
said the effective date for a claim under s.140A was the date the second loan was repaid.
On the substance of the complaint he said he didnt believe the amount of the commission, if 
any, would have led to an unfair relationship. He noted that Mr K had also referred to having 
been pressured into the purchase and that his financial position hadnt been properly 
assessed. Our investigator said no detail had been provided and neither point had been 
raised with BPF. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Firstly, I will address the purpose of the second loan. From the limited evidence we have 
been given it seems the first was taken out to pay R for the holiday product. It also appears 
the second was used to pay off the first. That means it was not taken out to pay R and I do 
not consider we can look through the arrangement to say the second loan was connected to 
the holiday product purchase. It simply paid off an existing debt and R had no connection 
with the second loan.
That means that the only loan I can consider in settling this complaint is the first which was 
paid off on 26 March 2009.
Under s.75 CCA, BPF is required to consider claims for misrepresentation and/or breach of 
contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation are to do with information provided by 
the supplier of a product or service at the point of sale.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr K is making to BPF. I 
will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr K says that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to him 
when he bought it. However, under both s.2 and 9 LA, Mr K had to make that claim within six 
years of when he entered into the holiday product and credit agreements  which was in 
April 2006  because that is when he says he lost out having relied on misrepresentations.
As Mr K first made a claim in May 2017, that fell outside of the time limit set out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA, Mr K had to make his claim within six years of when the first loan ended - which was 
in March 2009. But it was made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
It can be argued that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond 
March 2009. S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and 
creditor arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
The PR argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider exists as the loan from 
BPF had been used to fund the timeshare purchase. I am satisfied s.9 LA applies to this 
claim, not s.8 LA, as Mr K is making a claim for sums recoverable by statute.
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mr K 
repaid the loan in full, the agreement between him and BPF ended. As it was only the 
relationship between Mr K and BPF that could be found unfair, the limitation started to run 
when the credit agreement ended. As such I consider the claim was out of time.
S. 32 ClaimS. 32(1)(b) applies where any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. Typically s.32 applies to fraudulent 
misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. It can extend the time the consumer 
has to raise a claim. However, I believe Mr K has raised a number of issues with the product 
(over and above commission) in his claim/complaint and those issues could have been 
discoverable earlier. I consider that he either had discovered or ought to have been able to 
discover that something had gone wrong within six years.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mr K is able to rely on s.32 LA here either. For 
the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that I have seen nothing to show that 
the timeshare provider was acting as agent to them. I cannot see that its role was to make 
an impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan.
Overall, I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the s.75 CCA 
misrepresentation and s.140A CCA claims were made too late. It is ultimately for the courts 
to decide whether or not any claim that Mr K may have against the supplier or BPF has 
expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, those claims 
that Mr K might have against the timeshare supplier and/or BPF have most likely exceeded 
the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these 
circumstances. And I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in declining the claims.
BPFs decision to lend
At the time the loan was taken out and as this sale took place in 2009, they were required to 
be regulated by the Office of Fair Trading. The FCA took over the regulation of these 
activities on 1 April 2014 so they did not require to be FCA regulated at the point this loan 
was taken.
However this issue has not been raised with BPF and so I do not consider it appropriate for 
me to comment further. For the same reason I make no comment about the sales process 
save to say little or no details have been submitted in support of the claim. I think BPF acted 
fairly in turning down Mr Ks claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too 
late.
BPF said it had nothing to add and PR did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further facts, reasoning or arguments have been put to me my decision remains 
unchanged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman