DRN-4060520
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs S complain about the delays caused by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
when claiming on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W and Mrs S put in a subsidence claim with Admiral in 2018. Due to issues with handling 
the claim Mr W and Mrs S complained to Admiral. One of the complaints Mr W and Mrs S 
made was referred to this service and dealt with under a different complaint where 
compensation for the delays was paid. 
Following that complaint Mr W and Mrs S suffered further delays in the repairs being 
completed and therefore complained to Admiral again. Admiral reviewed this complaint and 
issued a final response letter on 13 December 2022. In its response Admiral accepted it 
hadnt handled the claim as it should and offered £475 in compensation for the delays and 
poor claim handling. Admiral accepted it had delayed the claim, not communicated as 
expected with Mr W and Mrs S and not responded to contact from Mr W and Mrs S which 
had caused them to chase Admiral unnecessarily. Unhappy with Admirals response Mr W 
and Mrs S referred their complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and explained he was only able to consider the 
delays between 16 June 2022 and 13 December 2022. This was because Mr W and Mrs Ss 
previous complaint had addressed the delays before this. However, our investigator didnt 
think Admiral had offered enough to compensate Mr W and Mrs S for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience, so he recommended Admiral increase the compensation to 
£625 for the poor claim handling during this time. 
Mr W and Mrs S didnt think this was enough. They explained that the claim had been 
ongoing since 2018 and so thought Admiral should pay more compensation. 
As Mr W and Mrs S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When dealing with a claim there is a requirement on Admiral to do so promptly and so Ive 
looked at whether Admiral has done this. While I understand Mr W and Mrs Ss frustration at 
the length of time their claim has taken, in this decision Im only able to consider the claim 
handling between 16 June 2022 and 13 December 2022. This is because Mr W and Mrs S 
have made other complaints about the delays caused before 16 June 2022 which have been 
dealt with separately. Im also aware compensation for the poor claim handling before 16 
June 2022 has been paid to Mr W and Mrs S, and as its been dealt with in a separate 
complaint, Im unable to comment on it here. 
When looking at the claim handling between 16 June 2022 and 13 December 2022, its not 
in dispute that Mr W and Mrs Ss claim has taken too long. Admiral accepts that it has 
caused unnecessary delays which caused Mr W and Mrs S unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. However, what is in dispute is the amount of compensation Admiral should 
pay. 
When Ive reviewed the timeline of events between these dates its clear Mr W and Mrs S 
have had to chase Admiral multiple times. There have also been issues with the repairs 
completed, which have needed rectifying. Work has not been authorised when it should 
have, which has resulted in repairs being partially completed and then left for long periods of 
time, while Mr W and Mrs S chased Admiral. There were also issues with the repairs 
completed and generally poor communication by Admiral. 
While its disappointing to see these things have happened, its good Admiral has 
acknowledged them and offered compensation to Mr W and Mrs S. However, Im not 
satisfied that the amount Admiral has paid is enough. I say that because due to Admirals 
poor claim handling there have been considerable delays and multiple times when Mr W and 
Mrs S have needed to chase Admiral when they shouldnt have needed to. Theyve also had 
to live with repairs being partly completed while the authorisation was provided. Due to all 
the errors, Im satisfied Admiral should pay Mr W and Mrs S an additional £150 bringing the 
total compensation to £625 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused between 
16 June 2022 and 13 December 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mr W and Mrs S a total of £625 for distress and 
inconvenience caused between 16 June 2022 and 13 December 2022. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman