DRN-2584960
The complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money blocked his credit card
without any notice, causing him stress and embarrassment. He said Virgin had lied about 
why it had done this.
What happened
Mr T said that in May 2020 Virgin had blocked his card without any notice. He said that
Virgin had told him this was because of his spending habits and information from a credit
reference agency (CRA) but he said that couldnt be true. He only owed about £650, out of
£3,600 credit available to him. And his credit score was excellent. He said he was in work.
When Mr T complained to Virgin, he said it unblocked his card, but it didnt give an honest
explanation for what had happened. He said hed been left without the card he uses as a
backup, and this was very unfair. Mr T initially asked for £250 in compensation, but then said
he wanted £400.
Virgin said it thought it had acted appropriately. It had placed blocks on some of its
customers accounts, where it had concerns about borrowing that might become
unsustainable in the future. It had then removed the block from Mr Ts account when he
appealed. And the block had no impact on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Virgin was entitled to
restrict Mr Ts account without notice, but it had emailed Mr T to tell him about the restriction.
Our investigator said that shed seen the evidence that Virgin based its decision on, and she
didnt think it had done anything wrong in restricting Mr Ts account. Virgin then lifted the
block when Mr T appealed. Our investigator said that this hadnt affected Mr Ts credit file.
She didnt think Virgin had to pay the £400 that Mr T wanted.
Mr T said he didnt accept this. He said his credit was always good, and his income had
increased. He said that Virgin lied if it had said it notified him before his account was
blocked. He said the block wasnt only for a few days, it was indefinite. He wanted to see
evidence that his account had only been blocked for a couple of days. And he said that the
blocks were applied to thousands of accounts. He sent us his credit file.
Mr T wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr T said Virgin didnt warn him it was going to block his card. Virgin hasnt said it 
warned him in advance. It did email him to tell him what had happened. Virgins 
terms do allow it to block a card without warning, where its worried the customer 
wont be able to pay it back.
Virgin told Mr T that it had restricted his card because it was concerned that he 
wouldnt be able to pay back what he owed it. Mr T has told us that he was under no 
financial pressures at the time, and hes also said that he had recently cleared the 
debt on his card. I can see from Mr Ts credit file that he had reduced his overall 
borrowing around the time that his card was restricted. Thats in line with what hes 
told us, about his income increasing before the card was blocked.
Virgin told us that it took a decision to restrict some cards, based on how much the
cardholders owed. In Mr Ts case, it said that when it had looked at his overall 
borrowing, he had a lot more than he does now. So it was worried about whether he 
would be able to pay this back. By the time it had restricted Mr Ts card, his 
borrowing had gone down. So when he appealed, and it rechecked his credit file, 
there was no difficulty in removing the block on his card.
Mr T said he wanted compensation, because his card was refused, and that was
embarrassing. He also said that he needed his card to purchase travel tickets, and 
he wanted to do that with a credit card because of the extra protections he obtains.
But Virgin has shown us that Mr T didnt try to use his card while it was blocked, so it 
doesnt seem likely that his card was refused.
Virgin has also shown us that it unblocked Mr Ts card very quickly, after he asked it 
to. His card was blocked on 5 May, and Virgin emailed Mr T on 7 May to say it was 
available for use again. So Im satisfied that Mr T was only without the use of his card 
for a couple of days. Mr T has sent us his bank statements, and I cant see that Mr T 
had to use his debit card to buy travel tickets in this time.
I know that Virgin applied the same block to a large number of its customers, but Im 
only able to consider what happened in Mr Ts case as part of this complaint. I think 
that Virgin made a reasonable business decision about Mr Ts use of his card. Mr T 
then asked Virgin to review this, it did so, and on the basis of more up to date 
information, it changed its mind.
I dont think that Virgin has acted outside of the terms of Mr Ts account. I do 
appreciate that Mr T may have been inconvenienced by losing the use of his card for 
a short time, but I think that the apology for the inconvenience that Virgin has already 
made to Mr T does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I dont think Virgin has to do more than its already done. So, although I know Mr T 
will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Virgin didnt reply. Mr T sent some questions he said we needed to get Virgin to answer.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T said that he would accept my decision, if I got Virgin to answer some questions. I 
should say, before I turn to the questions Mr T has asked, and the points he has made, that 
as an independent and impartial service, we dont follow the instructions of either side in 
deciding how to investigate a complaint. 
Im happy to get answers to Mr Ts questions where I consider that is relevant to his case. 
And even where I cant see that it is relevant, Im also happy to share any information that 
hes asked for, where that has already been provided to our service. But I wont delay a 
resolution in this case to seek further information from Virgin, where I dont think it would 
influence the outcome of this complaint. That wouldnt be fair to both sides.
Mr T said that Virgin had claimed that information about him made it take the decision to 
restrict his card, but it hadnt disclosed the date of the information the decision was based 
on. Mr T said that Virgin didnt block his card when he was using around 90% of the 
available credit, but then did so when he was using under 20%. 
What Mr T has said about this, fits with what I said in my provisional decision, that Virgin had 
made a decision on blocking his card when he had a lot more borrowing than he does now. 
And that by the time it had restricted Mr Ts card, his borrowing had gone down. 
Because what Virgin and what Mr T have said, as well as Mr Ts credit file, make me think 
that Virgin made the decision to block Mr Ts card before he paid off a large amount of his 
borrowing, I dont think that it makes a difference to this case to know exactly what dates 
Virgin used. So I wont delay this decision to ask Virgin that. Mr T can approach Virgin 
directly with this question if he wishes.
Mr T also said that his card was declined for transactions on the day it was blocked, and due 
to this he had postponed purchasing travel tickets. 
Virgin has told us there were no transactions attempted on Mr Ts card at this time, and its 
sent us evidence of that. Mr T has supplied no evidence of declined transactions, and I said 
in my provisional decision that he didnt need to use his debit card instead to buy travel 
tickets. So Ive not changed my view on the level of inconvenience this block caused Mr T. 
Mr T said that Virgin had failed to explain why the card was blocked for purchases but not for 
cash withdrawals. He said that was totally unfair and stressful. 
I cant see that Virgin has confirmed that Mr T was able to take cash advances but not able 
to make ordinary purchases while his card was blocked. But I can see that Mr T told us when 
he first complained, that Virgin had said this to him. 
Mr T hasnt explained why a block which affected card purchases but not cash advances 
would be unfair and stressful for him. I can see his card wasnt used during the short time it 
was blocked, which means Mr T wasnt forced to take cash advances instead of making 
ordinary purchases. So, if this was how Mr Ts card was restricted, then I dont think Mr T 
has been negatively affected by this.
I know that Mr T will be disappointed, but I havent changed my mind, I still dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman