DRN-2842702
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about the service they got from Lloyds Bank General Insurance
Limited (Lloyds) when they claimed on their home insurance, and how it settled their
claim for two sofas.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M claimed on their contents insurance with Lloyds following an escape of
water in December 2019.
When Mr M and Mrs M first made their claim, they said one of their sofas had been
damaged (among many other things). The damaged sofa was one of two identical sofas in
their lounge. At the time, Mr M and Mrs M said they could get an exact replacement for the
damaged sofa.
In the middle of February 2020, Lloyds told Mr M and Mrs M its expert had advised the
damaged sofa could be cleaned. And so, in accordance with the terms of the policy, it
proposed to repair rather than replace the sofa. In the meantime, Mr M and Mrs M had
contacted the sofas manufacturer and been put in touch with its recommended cleaner. He
told them it wouldnt be possible to clean this type of sofa.
When Mr M and Mrs M reported this to Lloyds, it said they could send in their own report that
the sofa couldnt be repaired, which it would consider. Mr M and Mrs M didnt do this
because theyd only spoken to the manufacturers recommended cleaner over the phone
and didnt think hed come out to do an inspection.
Mr M and Mrs M were then due to be on holiday from 7 to 28 March 2020. They say they
told Lloyds this. But when they returned home earlier than planned (on 24 March), they say
they had a voicemail from the cleaning company saying the sofa could be cleaned on 23
March.
At this point, the UK went into lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic so the sofa cleaning
couldnt be rescheduled for many months. At the same time, the sofa manufacturer went into
an insolvency process. Mr M and Mrs M were increasingly concerned they wouldnt be able
to get an exact replacement for the damaged sofa because of this, and they told Lloyds of
their concerns.
It was 18 August 2020 before the sofa cleaning was rescheduled. The cleaning company
failed to attend this appointment. When a second appointment went ahead around 25
August, Mr M and Mrs M were told the sofa couldnt be cleaned.
By this time, the sofa manufacturer had ceased trading and Mr M and Mrs M couldnt get an
exact replacement for the damaged sofa.
So Mr M and Mrs M asked Lloyds to pay for the replacement of both the damaged and
undamaged sofas as part of their claim. Lloyds refused, saying under the terms of
Mr M and Mrs Ms policy it was only required to settle their claim for the damaged sofa. And
Lloyds has since cash settled this part of Mr M and Mrs Ms claim.
Mr M and Mrs M complained to Lloyds about how it had settled their sofa claim in particular
but also about the service theyd had during the claim process generally. I understand Lloyds
made an ex gratia payment of £300 to Mr M and Mrs M for delays in dealing with some
aspects of their claim and a payment of £100 for not making a settlement payment when it
had promised. Lloyds also offered Mr M and Mrs M £50 in compensation for the
inconvenience they were caused when its agent didnt attend the first cleaning appointment.
But Lloyds said it had acted in line with Mr M and Mrs Ms policy terms in making a cash
settlement for the damaged sofa only.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr M and Mrs M complained to us. They said:
they had tried to reason with Lloyds, who insisted the clean had to be attempted in
the first instance;
Lloyds seemed to be placing the onus on them because they didnt get a written
report that the clean was impossible;
Lloyds said matching sofas werent necessary;
they understood the policy didnt cover undamaged items and Covid had affected
timescales. But they also said the claim was made at the end of December 2019 and
so Lloyds had three months to get the matter resolved before lockdown started; and
it was many weeks after lockdown was eased before the clean was arranged.
The investigator who looked at Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint upheld it. She thought the sofas
were a matching set and Lloyds hadnt considered a fair settlement for the undamaged sofa.
She recommended Lloyds pay Mr M and Mrs M 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged
sofa. But she thought Lloyds had adequately compensated Mr M and Mrs M for its
acknowledged delays in handling their claim.
Lloyds disagreed and so Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint came to me to decide. On 26 April 
2021, I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. Like the investigator who looked at it, 
I said I intended to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. But my reasons for doing so were 
different from those our investigator gave. So Mr M and Mrs M and Lloyds needed to have a 
chance to respond to my reasons before I made a final decision on the complaint.
Mr M and Mrs M have said they accept my provisional decision and have nothing to add. 
Lloyds said following a further review of the complaint and claim, it accepts that the delays 
encountered at the start of the claim meant Mr M and Mrs M were unable to obtain an exact 
replacement sofa.
Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr M and 
Mrs Ms complaint. In that decision, I gave my reasons as follows:
My starting point is Mr M and Mrs Ms home insurance policy.
This says that, in settling Mr M and Mrs Ms contents claim, Lloyds can either repair or
replace an item or make a money payment instead. So Lloyds was entitled under the policyterms to seek to repair the sofa rather than  as Mr M and Mrs M had hoped  immediately
agree to replace it. And I think Lloyds was entitled to rely as it did at the time on the opinion
of its independent expert that Mr M and Mrs Ms sofa could be repaired by being cleaned
(even though it later turned out this wasnt possible).
I know Mr M and Mrs M got an opinion from another expert saying the sofa couldnt be
cleaned, which they told Lloyds about. But this opinion was only given to Mr M and Mrs M
over the phone. They didnt get a formal written report from that expert. While I fully
understand why Mr M and Mrs M didnt do this, I think it means it wasnt unfair or
unreasonable of Lloyds to continue to rely on its experts advice and progress the claim by
attempting to have the sofa cleaned/repaired.
But, as things turned out, the sofa couldnt be cleaned, so the repair option under the terms
of Mr M and Mrs Ms policy wasnt possible. And by the time this was clear, Mr M and Mrs M
could no longer get an exact replacement sofa, because the manufacturer had ceased
trading. They could only get a new sofa that wouldnt be identical to their undamaged one.
Lloyds says Mr M and Mrs Ms policy only gives them cover for damaged items. It says they
have no cover for the undamaged parts of what are called matching sets. And more
recently its sent us information showing cover for matching sets was something
Mr M and Mrs M couldve taken out, if theyd chosen to upgrade their policy when they
bought it. Lloyds uses this information to support its position that it shouldnt have to
contribute 50% to the cost of a new sofa to replace Mr M and Mrs Ms undamaged sofa.
But what I think is central to Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint is Lloyds delay in settling their
claim for the damaged sofa. Lloyds says delays due to Covid meant the sofa couldnt be
cleaned. And it says these delays  which were outside its control  led to Mr M and Mrs M
being unable to get an exact replacement for the damaged sofa.
I dont agree with what Lloyds says, and Ill explain why.
Mr M and Mrs M reported the damaged sofa to Lloyds when they first made their claim. An
assessor came to their home within three days of this. But he wasnt qualified to look at
damage to soft furnishings.
From Lloyds claim notes, the damaged sofa remained outstanding for many weeks in early
2020. And this despite Mr M and Mrs M mentioning it often in follow-up phone calls to
Lloyds. It wasnt until the middle of February (nearly two months after Mr M and Mrs M had
first claimed and almost the same length of time since the first assessors visit) that Lloyds
expert assessed the sofa and recommended cleaning it. And it was more than a month after
that (and at a time when Mr M and Mrs M say theyd told Lloyds theyd be on holiday) that
the first cleaning appointment was scheduled.
If Lloyds had assessed the damaged sofa within a reasonable time frame, I think its more
likely than not the cleaning company wouldve told Lloyds and Mr M and Mrs M much sooner
than it did (and before the UK went into lockdown) that it couldnt be cleaned. I also think its
likely Lloyds would then have agreed to cash settle the sofa claim much sooner (and, again,
probably before the UK went into lockdown). And I think this means Mr M and Mrs M
wouldve been able to use the settlement to buy a new sofa to replace the damaged one that
was identical to the undamaged one  because, at that stage, the sofa manufacturer wasnt
in an insolvency process. So they wouldve been left, as they were before their claim, with
two identical sofas.
Because of Lloyds delays in making an initial assessment and getting the sofa cleaned,
from what Ive seen so far, Mr M and Mrs M lost the opportunity to get an identical
replacement sofa from the manufacturer with their settlement from Lloyds. These delayshappened before the UK went into lockdown, so I dont think the inevitable but
unforeseeable delays lockdown brought are relevant here.
I have taken into account Lloyds comments that Mr M and Mrs M were able to add
replacement of sets cover when they took out their policy. But in my view the key issue here
is that, following their claim, Mr M and Mrs M arent now in substantially the same position as
theyd have been in had they not had an escape of water. And theyre in this position
because of delays by Lloyds that happened before the pandemic. I dont think thats fair. And
so in these very specific circumstances, and based on what Ive seen so far, I think its fair
and reasonable to direct Lloyds to make a contribution of 50% to the cost of a replacement
for the undamaged sofa thats identical to Mr M and Mrs Ms replacement sofa. And thats
what I intend to direct, subject to any further comments and information Lloyds and
Mr M and Mrs M give me in response to this provisional decision.
In looking at Mr M and Mrs Ms case file, its clear the service they got from Lloyds during
their claim wasnt what they were entitled to expect. And Lloyds accepts this. But I
understand it has compensated Mr M and Mrs M £450 in total for its failings. I think thats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, especially bearing in mind the
contribution Ive said I intend to direct Lloyds to make to the cost of the second sofa. So I
dont intend to direct Lloyds to pay Mr M and Mrs M any further compensation.
As Ive already said, both Mr M and Mrs M and Lloyds have accepted my provisional 
decision. Lloyds says it agrees to pay 50% of the value of the undamaged sofa, along with 
8% interest if the undamaged sofa has already been replaced. It says, based on its cash 
settlement for the damaged sofa, this would be £975. Our investigator has confirmed with  
Mr M and Mrs M that this is a figure they agree with.
Having looked at everything again, I see no reason to change any of the findings in my 
provisional decision as Ive set them out above, and these now form part of this final 
decision.
  
Putting things right
I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to put things right for Mr M and Mrs M as I 
set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint and direct Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr M and Mrs M 50% of the cost of replacing their undamaged sofa with one
thats identical to the replacement they have for the damaged sofa; and
If Mr M and Mrs M have already bought a replacement for the undamaged sofa,
Lloyds must add 8% simple interest per annum to the 50% contribution detailed
above, from the date they paid for it to the date of settlement. 
Mr M and Mrs M must give Lloyds a copy of the invoice that shows the replacement sofa 
cost.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Jane GallacherOmbudsman