DRN-2843690
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to protect his account from 
unauthorised transactions and kept putting the phone down when he called them..
What happened
Shortly after Mr R opened a new bank account with HSBC, a series of transactions 
appeared on his account that he didnt recognise. Mr R called HSBC about them and was 
interrupted during several calls. Mr R complained that staff members accused him of being a 
liar.
HSBC investigated the transactions and made several refunds. They acknowledged one of 
the calls was cut short but denied any of their staff were rude to Mr R. HSBC made several 
payments to compensate Mr R, including £50 for a poor experience when he called to 
discuss a refund.
Mr R continued to complain that transactions were leaving his account that he didnt 
recognise, and HSBC were failing to stop them. HSBC replaced Mr Rs debit card on 
numerous occasions throughout this period, but the payments kept leaving his account.
Further refunds were made by HSBC and by various other internet merchants. Mr R 
continued to raise transactions including two that were set up as continuous payments. He 
remained unhappy with HSBC and brought his complaint to our service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that it was unlikely someone else 
had made the transactions due to the large number of replacement cards Mr R had received. 
She also concluded that most, if not all the transactions made from this account had been 
refunded and thought the compensation already paid by HSBC was sufficient. She also 
didnt find any instances of staff being rude, although calls were interrupted.
Mr R wanted his complaint to be looked at again and its been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Id first like to address the further complaint Mr R made about the closure of his account by 
HSBC. Because HSBC havent investigated the complaint, our service cant look into it. 
Once Mr R receives HSBCs final response about it, he can then bring the complaint to our 
service if he wishes. So, my decision will concentrate on the disputed transactions and 
service issues experienced by Mr R. 
The relevant law is contained in the Payment Service Regulations (2017). The basic position 
is that HSBC can hold Mr R liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. Authorisation is made up of two 
parts  authentication and consent. Authentication refers to the procedure used by the bank 
to verify that a payment was made and usually refers to the technical evidence.
All the payments were card not present transactions  meaning they were done either over 
the phone or using the internet. Mr R disputed around 50 separate payments. HSBC have 
supplied audit information for several transactions made using Mr Rs debit card that 
represent both the merchants involved in most of the transactions disputed by Mr R. They 
include examples of payments and their respective refunds.
The payments were made using Mr Rs various debit cards, including the replacement card 
details. Its not practical or necessary to examine the authentication data for each transaction 
because they were all made in the same way and I think its reasonable to conclude the 
other transactions were similarly authenticated. From the evidence Ive seen, which shows 
the card number and expiry date were entered in order to make the transactions, Im 
satisfied the transactions were properly authenticated. 
Ive gone on to consider if Mr R consented to these payments. For someone other than Mr R 
to have made these payments, they would have needed to know the details of the various 
debit cards, which were replaced numerous times. Mr R told us that he lives alone and 
hadnt given anyone else the details of his debit card. Based on that, its difficult for me to 
understand how someone unknown to Mr R wouldve been able to successfully obtain his 
debit card details on a number of occasions and then make transactions with them each 
time. 
But there are other factors here which mean Im persuaded that its most likely Mr R 
authorised these transactions too. For example, Mr R also received refunds into his account 
directly from these merchants. For a merchant to process a refund, the account holder would 
usually have to raise the payment with them and ask for a refund. That would suggest Mr R 
did have accounts with the relevant merchants here. I dont think that someone other than 
Mr R would try and get a refund as it would ultimately only benefit him  if it was someone 
else making the payments, they would be unlikely to go to the trouble of asking for a refund 
as it wouldnt be any use to them. 
The spending on the account also follows the available credits, so generally if more funds 
were in the account after a refund or credit, then the spending increased. This included 
payments to merchants that Mr R disputed. It appears that whoever was using the account 
knew the available balance on an ongoing basis. So, taking everything into account, I dont 
think its likely that someone other than Mr R authorised these payments. 
Two of the payments were set up as continuous payment authorities, meaning the merchant 
was given authority to debit the card without the need for specific authorisation for each 
transaction. Mr R denied setting these up with the merchants  but he received refunds for 
these payments. From the evidence Ive seen, the payments have also stopped being 
requested by the merchant. So, I think Mr R has got the outcome he asked for in respect of 
these, which means that I dont think HSBC needs to take any further action here.
Overall, Mr R has already received most of the disputed transactions back as refunds. But 
that doesnt mean that HSBC should also refund the outstanding payments. Instead the 
evidence here leads me to believe that, on balance, I think it was more than likely Mr R was 
responsible for the transactions. So, I wont be telling HSBC to make any further refunds to 
Mr R.
Mr R wanted HSBC to block some of the merchants and HSBC were waiting for further 
information about the payments before they could do this. From the evidence Ive seen, because most of the transactions were refunded, and considering what Ive concluded about 
authorisation, I dont think Mr R lost out as a result of HSBC not blocking the merchants.
Mr R has mentioned that HSBC staff accused him of being a liar and put the phone down on 
him when he called them. Two calls formed part of his original complaint to HSBC and Ive 
listened to them. Theres no evidence that HSBC staff were rude to Mr R, but the calls were 
cut short. HSBC thought some of the calls might have been cut short due to staff working 
from home and poor internet coverage. Our investigator also experienced the same thing 
when speaking with the bank. I think the reason for the calls ending abruptly was more likely 
related to failures in technology rather than HSBC staff deliberately cutting calls short  as 
HSBC seemed to be willing to discuss the situation with Mr R on most occasions.
HSBC accepted that Mr R could have received better service during one of the calls and Mr 
R accepted a £50 payment. I think the compensation offered to Mr R was appropriate and 
wont be telling HSBC to pay Mr R anything further. Mr R also mentioned other occasions 
when staff were rude to him. Weve asked Mr R to tell us the dates and times of these calls, 
but hes been unable to apart from a call in February. Without that information, HSBC hasnt 
been able to locate any other calls. HSBC supplied notes of the conversation  the notes 
indicate Mr R was calling about transactions with a merchant and HSBC attempted to 
reverse the transactions and cancelled Mr Rs card. Theres no indication of any service 
problems within the notes.
Although Ive not had an opportunity to listen to other calls, the ones I have listened to and 
the notes Ive seen have all shown that various call handlers were professional when they 
spoke with Mr R. Calls were cut short which would have been frustrating, but theres no 
evidence that it was ever done deliberately or that the call handlers were rude to Mr R or 
called him a liar. 
Overall, Mr R received the majority of the disputed transactions back as refunds and over 
£300 in various compensation payments from HSBC around this situation. Given this, I think 
HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when they dealt with Mr R. So taking everything into 
consideration, I wont be telling HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman