DRN-3037637
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to cancel his policy when it 
discovered the driving history Mr A gave when he bought the policy wasnt correct. 
What happened
Mr A took out a car insurance policy with Ageas Insurance Limited in February 2021 through 
an online comparison website. 
In March 2021 Ageas questioned the information Mr A gave about his driving history. The 
correct driving history meant Ageas wouldnt have offered Mr A a policy. 
Ageas said hed answered the question it asked about a motoring conviction incorrectly  as 
he gave the wrong offence code. And it considered this to be a reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to cancel Mr As policy as if it didnt exist  otherwise 
known as voidance. It said Mr A had recklessly misrepresented the facts in order to buy the 
policy - as it found hed completed quotes on the comparison website including both the 
correct conviction code and the incorrect conviction code before buying the policy. Mr A had 
used the incorrect conviction code when he bought the policy. 
Mr A complained to Ageas. It reconsidered and said it wouldnt avoid the policy. But it still 
couldnt provide cover to Mr A, so it instead cancelled the policy. It said Mr A would need to 
tell future insurers about the cancellation. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us. He thought the outcome was harsh for an innocent 
mistake. He wants Ageas to remove any cancellation marker so that he doesnt have to tell 
future insurers about the cancellation. He says its increased the costs of his car insurance 
significantly and doesnt think the outcome is fair. 
Our investigator thought Mr As complaint shouldnt be upheld. She thought Ageas could 
have taken the decision to avoid the policy for deliberate /reckless misrepresentation  but 
as it decided not to do this and instead cancel the policy and refund the premium paid, she 
thought Ageas had been very reasonable to Mr A. So she didnt ask it to change anything. 
Mr A doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
hasnt provided any new information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
If Ageas had maintained its decision to avoid Mr As policy, the relevant law in this case is 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ageas has provided evidence to show that Mr A obtained quotes before buying the policy 
including both the correct conviction code and the incorrect one. 
However, when Mr A complained, Ageas accepted Mr As explanation that it was an 
innocent mistake and not deliberate - and agreed not to record a voidance marker against 
Mr A. Instead Ageas cancelled Mr As policy and refunded the premium he paid. It has 
shown that had it known the correct information about Mr As driving history, Ageas wouldnt 
have offered him a policy. 
As Ageas agreed to cancel Mr As policy rather than avoid it, this means that CIDRA doesnt 
apply. So  I think the actions Ageas took were very fair and reasonable. This means Mr A 
will need to declare the cancellation to future insurers if they ask. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman