DRN-3418744
The complaint
Mr B says AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has unfairly refused to meet a claim hes 
made for medical treatment.
What happened
Mr B is a member of a private medical plan provided by his employer. AXA underwrites the 
plan and manages access to treatment for beneficiaries.
Mr B was suffering back pain. His GP gave him a referral to a specialist for treatment. Ill call 
the specialist Mr R.
Mr B contacted AXA and it said it would meet the initial costs of his treatment with Mr R, and 
Mr B went ahead with that. A little while later Mr B contacted AXA again to get authorisation 
for further treatment recommended by Mr R. AXA said that it had removed Mr R from its list 
of approved specialists from 21 June 2021. But it also said that as Mr B had started 
treatment, he had 30 days grace so he could either complete his course of treatment or find 
another specialist to take over from Mr R.
Mr B found another consultant (Mr C) and checked that he was on AXAs approved list. 
Unfortunately Mr B couldnt see Mr C straight away: instead, at the end of July, he had 
surgery under the care of Mr R. When he tried to claim for the cost of the surgery  just 
under £10,000  AXA said it wouldnt meet the cost as the surgery had taken place after the 
30 day grace period had finished. 
Mr B complained, saying hed been in pain and couldnt wait to see Mr C. He wants AXA to 
refund the cost of the surgery hes paid for. AXA says its considered his claim in line with 
the terms and conditions in his policy and wont meet the claim.
Mr B asked us to review the complaint. Our investigator said he didnt think AXA had acted 
unfairly. He said he thought the terms and conditions clearly warned that not all specialists 
were registered as acceptable and that the list of approved specialists could change. He 
thought Mr B had had sufficient notice of the change and knew that if he went ahead with 
treatment with Mr R then the cost wouldnt be refunded.
Mr B remains unhappy about this and Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator gave.
The terms and conditions for Mr Bs policy say, in summary, that AXA will only pay for 
treatment provided by specialists on its approved list. I think the wording is clear. Mr B hasnt 
said he didnt understand AXAs position on this  instead he says its been unfair by 
following the terms and conditions to the letter.
Payment for Mr Bs initial treatment with Mr R was authorised because both the treatment 
and the consultant were approved in line with the terms and conditions in Mr Bs policy. Part 
way through the treatment, Mr B contacted AXA about some imminent follow up treatment. 
AXA authorised that, but I can see it also warned Mr B that Mr R had been removed from the 
list of approved specialists about a week earlier. It said it would give Mr B a 30 day grace 
period from the date of removal to conclude any follow up treatment  but that after this point 
it wouldnt pay for any more treatment provided by Mr R. 
Mr B seems to have accepted this and found another specialist (Mr C), checking with AXA 
that his fees would be paid. AXA said it would meet those costs. Unfortunately Mr C wasnt 
immediately available and Mr B decided to have surgery with Mr R instead. I understand why 
he did that, and I have every sympathy for the pain he was in. But I can see AXA explained 
in an email sent to Mr B more than a week before the surgery that it wouldnt meet the cost if 
he went ahead with the surgery under Mr Rs care. 
I dont think AXA has treated Mr B unfairly. He had sufficient notice to find another specialist. 
It isnt AXAs fault that Mr C wasnt available immediately  AXA cant control when 
specialists are available. In these circumstances I would expect Mr B to ask AXA for help 
finding someone who might have been available sooner (his policy says it would do that), but 
he doesnt appear to have done that. 
In summary I think Mr B had time to either find another specialist or ask AXA to do that for 
him. So I dont think AXA has interpreted the terms and conditions unfairly when it decided to 
refuse Mr Bs claim.
Mr B says that when AXA started talking to Mr R about taking him off the approved list is 
crucial to his complaint. I cant agree with that. Conversations like this might go on for many 
months  and might not in the end result in a specialist being de-listed. I dont think that 
when this conversation started affects my ability to reach a fair conclsion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman