DRN-2416665
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly registered a marker at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr O had accounts with Nationwide. In January 2020 Nationwide told him that it was closing 
his accounts. Mr O complained that it had also registered a fraud marker. He says this is 
causing him difficulties as he cant open an account elsewhere.
Nationwide said that it wouldnt be removing the fraud marker. Funds paid into Mr Os 
account in December 2019 had been reported as fraudulently obtained. All the money had 
been withdrawn. It said it had an obligation to report this by loading the marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr O said that he had 
allowed a friend to use his account to receive the payment. And that he provided that friend 
with his card and PIN and access to online banking. Mr O said he had no idea that this 
account was being used in this way. But she said that Mr O was responsible for the activity 
on his account and that included what a third party had done here. She knew that Mr O 
regretted what happened but didnt think Nationwide had made a mistake.
Mr O didnt agree. He said that the person involved was his cousin who had just come to this 
country. He didnt give him his card and PIN and had made a mistake by not explaining this 
before as he didnt want to incriminate him. Mr O said he had full control over his account but 
had provided the sort code and account number. Mr O took out the money because he was 
told to and had no idea this was fraudulent. He also said that if he had seen the payment he 
would have called Nationwide as he had no idea where it came from. He was now suffering 
from mental health problems and his family wasnt speaking to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Nationwide 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Mr O has provided nothing beyond his testimony to support what he says happened. And 
hes also not been consistent in what he says. He seems to think that him not giving a third 
party his card and PIN makes him less responsible. But if anything, he now accepts that he 
made all the payments using these funds and so must reasonably have known about the 
large credit to his account. Im afraid as he has given different explanations it is difficult to 
rely on what he says.
Ive also listened to recordings of a number of calls he had with Nationwide in January 2020 
- first when his account had been restricted and then when it had then written to him to say it 
had been closed. He said nothing then to refute that there had been fraud on his account. 
And he had by then been trying to open an account elsewhere and knew that the record of 
fraud might cause him difficulties. To me that indicates its most likely he was aware of what 
had been happening on this account. And as I say there is no supporting evidence of any 
third party being involved. I dont have a reasonable basis other than to find Mr O 
responsible for what happened on his account. 
Nationwide says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr O received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Nationwide was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Nationwide needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Os account of events and the evidence Nationwide has provided, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr O received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Nationwide at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Nationwide had grounds to believe that Mr O had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I understand the difficulties Mr O describes without a bank account but Im afraid that I dont 
have a basis to require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman