DRN-4146909
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In June 2020, Mr B saw an advert on a social media platform advertising an investment 
opportunity. He was interested and so filled out a form to contact the company that had 
placed the advertisement. He was contacted by someone who claimed to be a lawyer 
working for a firm in the United States. Unfortunately, the opportunity that had attracted 
Mr Bs attention wasnt legitimate but was a scam.
He claimed that a client had inherited a store of gold bullion that had been held in a vault in 
Europe for many years.  He claimed that he and his team were working to secure the 
release of the gold so that it could be sold, and its value released. 
In December 2020, the scammer told Mr B that he needed to travel to the site of the gold as 
part of the process of securing its release, but he needed Mr Bs assistance with covering his 
travel costs. He told them these would reimbursed once the gold was sold. Mr B agreed to 
transfer £2,600. There had been regular contact between Mr B and the scammer for around 
six months until Mr B was asked to transfer funds.
In January 2021, the scammer told Mr B that they could proceed with their plans but that 
there were significant costs involved. Mr B agreed to partially underwrite those costs on the 
assumption that he would receive a pay-out once the gold had been sold. He was told that 
the gold weight 127g and, on the basis, he anticipated a generous return. At the scammers 
request, he transferred £37,000.
When the scammer tried to persuade him to transfer more money, Mr B suspected he had 
fallen victim to a scam. He notified Barclays promptly. It considered his complaint under the 
terms of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. 
Under the terms of that code, it agreed to refund 50% of the money Mr B lost to the scam. 
However, it didnt agree to refund him in full. It thought Mr B shouldve taken greater steps to 
ensure that the opportunity was a legitimate one before transferring his money.
Mr B was unhappy with the response he received from Barclays and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who considered that Barclays 
offer was fair in the circumstances. She didnt think Mr B had a reasonable basis for 
believing that the investment was a legitimate one. She also wasnt persuaded Mr B was 
vulnerable as defined in the CRM Code which might have led to him receiving a full refund.
Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr B is responsible for transactions hes carried out himself. 
But, as already set out, Barclays is a signatory to the provisions of the CRM Code. So, Ive 
considered whether he should be reimbursed in full under its provisions. The CRM Code 
allows Barclays to decline reimbursement in full if it can demonstrate that one of the 
exceptions under the code applies. In this instance, it seeks to rely on the exception that 
applies where a customer made payment without a reasonable basis for believing that  
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. In other words, it argues 
that Mr Bs belief that this was a genuine investment opportunity was not a reasonable one.
Ive considered the available evidence carefully and I agree with that conclusion. 
Unfortunately, Mr B no longer has any of the documentation that was provided to him as part 
of the scam so I cant know if it was objectively credible or not. But I think there were several 
factors here that ought to have caused him concern. The justification given for the initial 
transfer was that Mr B needed to cover the cost of the lawyers flights to the city where the 
gold was stored. There was no plausible explanation given as to why this flight was 
necessary, but in any case, I dont find it credible that an individual involved in managing the 
private affairs of wealthy individuals would need to take a short-term loan from Mr B. 
From everything Ive seen, Mr B wasnt given a credible explanation of the obstacles 
preventing the gold being sold and its value realised. He appears to have simply taken the 
scammer at his word. Mr B told us that the gold that was to be sold weighed 127 grams and 
so he expected a generous. But all the data Ive found suggests this would make it worth no 
more than £5,000.
I think there were certainly enough indicators here that things might not be legitimate. Mr B 
shouldve acted with greater caution and carried out further checks before proceeding. 
Overall, Im persuaded that he made these payments without a reasonable basis of belief 
and as a result, its fair and reasonable for Barclays to rely on the relevant exception in the 
code. It has already refunded 50% of the money Mr B lost to the scam and so it doesnt need 
to do anything further here.
Ive also considered the arguments made by Mr Bs representatives that he should be 
considered vulnerable. Mr B was around 80 years old at the time of the scam. It cited an 
industry code of practice and guidance published by the Financial Conduct Authority saying 
that customers over the age of 65 are potentially vulnerable.
I agree that, by virtue of his age, Mr B was more likely to be targeted by a scam of this kind. 
However, the CRM Code treats vulnerability in a slightly different way to the guidance his 
representatives have cited. It says A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be 
reasonable to expect that Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming 
victim of an APP scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they 
suffered. This should be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that were any factors specific to Mr B that couldve 
hindered him in protecting himself from a scam of this type and no arguments have been 
made to that effect. As a result, Im not persuaded that the CRM Codes definition of 
vulnerability applies here or that its not fair and reasonable for Mr B to be considered 
responsible for 50% of the funds he lost to the scam. 
For completeness, Ive also looked at whether Barclays did everything it shouldve done after 
Mr B notified it hed fallen victim to a scam. I can see that he informed Barclays on 
14 January 2021 and that it made immediate contact with the receiving bank  i.e. the bank that operates the account the controlled by the fraudster. Unfortunately, Mr Bs funds were 
moved out of that account promptly and so there were no funds remaining to be recovered. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman