DRN-3409848
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc withdrew a mortgage offer a few days before his 
purchase was due to complete. He asks that it accepts a loan as the source of funds for the 
deposit and pays compensation for financial loss, anxiety, and stress.
What happened
Mr P had a mortgage with HSBC. He wanted to move home and in early 2021 he applied to 
port the mortgage and take out additional borrowing. Mr P told HSBC that the deposit would 
be funded from equity from the sale of his existing property, savings and an interest free loan 
of £200,000 from a family trust. 
After Mr P had exchanged contracts HSBC said deposits funded by loans were not 
acceptable. Mr P says with only a few days before the completion date the trustees had to 
agree to make the funds a gift. Mr P says they did this assuming the matter would be put 
right after completion, when HSBC would allow the funds to be re-classed as a loan.
Mr P says having to classify the funds as a gift undermines the benefits of the trust and put 
him into a difficult position as hes one of the trustees. Mr P says the trusts assets are 
depleted and it will have to pay a charge to HMRC as a result of the gift. And his estate has 
increased in value meaning there will be inheritance tax payable when he dies.
HSBC accepts it should have told Mr P at the outset that a deposit funded by a loan wasnt 
acceptable. It offered compensation of £450. 
Our investigator said this was fair. He said we cant require HSBC to change its policy 
regarding the source of funds for a deposit or make an exception for Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree. He said by the time HSBC said it wouldnt accept the loan hed exchanged 
contracts and not going ahead would risk his deposit of £80,000. He said £450 isnt 
adequate. And, given the position HSBC put him in, he considers it should fairly allow the gift 
to be re-classed as a loan. Mr P said a letter from HSBC saying it accepts the funds as an 
unsecured interest free loan would suffice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
HSBC doesnt offer mortgages where a loan is the source of funds for the deposit. HSBC is 
entitled to make a commercial decision about its lending criteria, and ultimately it applied its 
criteria correctly here. The problem was that HSBC didnt tell Mr P this at the outset.
Mr P met with a mortgage adviser in January 2021 to apply to port his mortgage and take 
out additional borrowing. He said he intended to fund £200,000 of the deposit for the 
purchase with a loan from a family trust. This was the same structure as hed used for his 
existing property and mortgage with HSBC. The application proceeded and HSBC issued a 
mortgage offer later in January 2021.
The solicitor acting for Mr P wrote to HSBC on 19 February 2021. The letter raised three 
points. One was to ask HSBC to confirm it would proceed on the basis Mr P was obtaining a 
loan of £200,000 from a family trust which would be secured by a second charge on the 
property. HSBC responded to the first two points in the letter in late February 2021. It didnt 
respond to the question about the loan until 12 March 2021.
On 12 March 2021 HSBC responded to the solicitor by email saying the loan from the family 
trust wasnt acceptable and it wouldnt proceed on that basis. 
Mr P had exchanged contracts on 5 March 2021. He says as his solicitor hadnt received any 
objection about the loan following the 19 February 2021 letter, the solicitor advised him it 
was prudent to proceed to exchange of contracts.
Having exchanged contracts, Mr P found himself in a difficult situation. I appreciate why he 
says at this point his choices were limited. Hed signed a contract to buy the property and if 
he didnt proceed, hed risk losing his deposit. However, Mr P did make a choice when he 
decided to exchange contracts, despite not having heard back from HSBC with confirmation 
it would proceed on the basis £200,000 of the deposit was in the form of a loan.
HSBC had accepted this structure for Mr Ps previous mortgage. And HSBC didnt tell Mr P 
at the outset it had changed its policy and no longer accepted this. But Mr Ps solicitor had 
specifically asked for confirmation that HSBC would proceed on this basis and hadnt 
received a response. I think Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware there was a risk that 
the answer would be that HSBC wouldnt proceed on this basis. Mr P chose to go ahead 
with exchange of contracts despite this. 
Mr P might have felt under pressure to exchange contracts, to avoid any risk of losing his 
sale or purchase. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC was told there 
was a deadline for exchange. If it was important for Mr P (or the family trust that he is a 
trustee of) that the deposit was in the form of a loan I think it would have been reasonable to 
wait for HSBCs response before exchanging contracts.
The trustees of the family trust agreed that the money would be a gift so that Mr Ps 
purchase could proceed with the mortgage from HSBC. Mr P says this was on the 
assumption that the matter could be sorted out after completion  by which he means that 
HSBC would allow the funds to be characterised as a loan. I dont know what discussions 
were had or assumptions made by the trustees. But I dont think any assumptions they made 
mean that HSBC has to allow the gift to be re-classed as a loan.
I know Mr P will be disappointed, but I dont intend to require HSBC to accept the loan. 
Thats not to say that HSBC didnt make any errors. Mr P told HSBC at the outset that he 
intended to fund part of the deposit with a loan. HSBC should have told him that it wouldnt 
proceed on that basis. And HSBC ought to have responded more promptly to the solicitors 
question about this in their letter of 19 February 2021. HSBC didnt give Mr P and his 
solicitor correct information until 12 March 2021  almost two months after hed first spoken 
to it. I think its right that HSBC pays compensation for the inconvenience and upset that 
resulted from this. 
Mr P hasnt said what hed have done differently if hed been told at the outset that the loan from the family trust wasnt acceptable. However, as Ive said, I dont think its fair to say that 
HSBC is responsible for Mr Ps decision to exchange contracts before it confirmed whether 
the loan was acceptable. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require HSBC 
to pay compensation for the consequences  financial or emotional  of this.
I can require HSBC to pay compensation for any losses, inconvenience and upset caused by 
its error  that is the delay in giving Mr P correct information. 
I must be clear that the complainant here is Mr P. When Im considering what effect HSBCs 
error had, I can only look into how it affected Mr P. I cant usually require compensation to be 
paid to third parties or for the losses or upset of third parties. So while Mr P says the assets 
of the trust are depleted and the other trustees were inconvenienced or upset this isnt 
something I can require HSBC to pay compensation for. 
Mr Ps purchase went ahead. He didnt lose his deposit, or the other costs and fees 
associated with property sales and purchases. He received a gift rather than a loan of 
£200,000. Mr P says the increase in his assets could mean his estate having to pay 
inheritance tax after he dies. Even if I thought the change in the characterisation of the funds 
from loan to gift was due to HSBCs error (that is the delay in giving Mr P correct 
information), I dont think I could fairly require HSBC to pay compensation without evidence 
that Mr P suffered a loss. I dont think I can fairly require HSBC to pay compensation on the 
basis Mr P has suffered a loss due to the possibility of his estate paying tax after his death. 
And I dont think I can fairly require HSBC to pay compensation to Mr P on the basis hes 
lost out as a beneficiary of a trust when this is due to trust assets being transferred to him. 
I must be clear that Im only considering the effect on Mr P of the delay in giving him the 
correct information. Im not requiring HSBC to pay compensation for applying its lending 
policy, or for the consequences of Mr Ps own decision to exchange contracts before HSBC 
responded to the question about the loan. 
As Ive said, Im not persuaded that Mr P suffered a financial loss due to the delay in being 
given correct information. And I think a lot of the upset here is caused by Mr Ps preferred 
structure (a loan) not being acceptable to HSBC, rather than the delay in being told this. No 
doubt though being told so late in the process that a loan wasnt available caused upset and 
inconvenience. Mr P had to discuss and agree a different structure with the other trustees  
that the funds would be a gift rather than a loan  within a few days rather than over several 
weeks. Having considered this carefully, I think £450 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the upset and inconvenience this caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay £450 to Mr P as it offered to do. It can 
deduct any amounts already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman