DRN-4378140
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from TSB Bank plc (TSB) when he needed a
replacement debit card. He says he experienced multiple problems, the result of which was
that he was without a working debit card for several weeks.
What happened
Mr S holds several accounts with TSB. He uses one of them as his main account and
regularly uses a debit card to make payments from it. Ill call this Account 1. On 5 August
2022, his debit card for Account 1 was retained by an ATM. Mr S contacted TSB to cancel
the card and request a new one.
He received a new card a few days later but he says it didnt work, so he called TSB. TSB
couldnt determine why the new card wasnt working, so it ordered another one. At the same
time, it ordered new cards and PINs for Mr Ss other accounts including his credit card
account. TSB apologised for what had happened and paid £25 into Mr Ss account to
acknowledge the distress and inconvenience caused.
In the period between 10 August and 6 September, TSB ordered several new cards and
PINs for Mr S. But Mr S experienced problems throughout this period, with cards either not
being sent to him or not working consistently. Information from Mr Ss local branch confirms
that cards werent always being sent to him and that a card ordered by the branch staff was
cancelled by another department.
There were problems with the credit card as well. Mr S told TSB that he had received a new
credit card but no PIN for it. TSB accepted that, due to human error, no PIN had been
ordered. It apologised and offered him £50 for the distress and inconvenience. But Mr S
didnt accept this offer, so it hasnt been paid.
Mr S says that the issues went on until 21 September. Until that time, he says he had
difficulty getting cash out and couldnt do online shopping because he didnt have a working
card. He says that some regular payments from his account were also affected, which
caused his internet to be disconnected and other services stopped.
Mr S says he had to keep ringing TSB to try and sort out the problem and spent over 20
hours on the phone. He says he had to borrow money from friends and neighbours - to his
great embarrassment  and that the stress of the situation affected his work. He says he
broke a tooth due to biting down as a result of stress and it cost £65 to have this repaired. Mr
S says that TSB hasnt shown any understanding of how difficult it has been for him to be
without a working debit card for such a long time and that the branch manager was very rude
and dismissive of the issue. He says that, when he told the branch staff that he wanted to
transfer his money to another bank, they told him there would be a charge of around £2,000
to do so.
Mr S asked this service to look at the complaint. I issued a provisional decision on 28 
September, indicating my intention to uphold the complaint and direct TSB to pay further 
compensation of £375 to Mr S. TSB agreed to this. But Mr S wasnt happy with the amount 
of compensation. He remains very unhappy with the way he was treated by TSB and says it 
didnt give him any help or guidance on how to deal with the problems with the cards. He 
says he feels very let down by TSB and has asked me to look at the situation again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered Mr Ss comments and thought about everything again. Im sorry to 
disappoint him, but Im afraid Im not going to increase the compensation from the amount I 
recommended in my provisional decision. Ive set out my findings below.
Im satisfied that Mr S uses Account 1 as his main account and that, before these issues
arose, he used the debit card on this account almost daily. The information Ive seen shows
that he didnt make debit card payments from his other accounts before August 2022.
I find that Mr S was without a working debit card for Account 1 from 5 August to around 21
September. There was a brief period within this timeframe when one of the replacement
cards appears to have been working. The card issued on 23 August was used by Mr S on 31
August. He says he only received the PIN on 30 August and that the card worked for less
than 24 hours. This is supported by his statements, which show this card was used just
twice, on 31 August. The card issued on 6 September was used by Mr S for the first time on
21 September and has been used successfully since then. So, Im satisfied that Mr S was
effectively without a working card on Account 1 for around six weeks. TSB accepts this.
TSB also accepts that Account 1 was used by Mr S as his main account. It acknowledges
that being without a debit card for this account for six weeks would have been frustrating and
inconvenient. But it says there were other ways that Mr S could have accessed the money in
this account during that time. It says he could have withdrawn cash at a branch or
transferred money to a friend or family member so that they could make payments or cash
withdrawals for him. TSB accepts that these methods arent ideal but says they would have
enabled Mr S to access his money.
But Mr S says its not reasonable to expect him to involve friends and family, causing stress
and embarrassment. He also says that, due to his work, he couldnt easily visit a branch
every time he wanted to take out cash. And hes unhappy that he could only withdraw £50 at
a time.
TSB has explained that, if Mr S wanted to withdraw more than this, it had to be authorised by
the branch manager. So, if Mr S visited the branch when the manager wasnt available, he
wouldnt have been able to withdraw more than £50. I think thats reasonable under normal
circumstances. But, in these circumstances, I think TSB could have done more to help Mr S.
TSB says it doesnt charge customers for withdrawing cash in its branches and that it has no
record of Mr S being told it would cost him £2,000 to withdraw funds. I havent seen any
evidence that Mr S was told this, but I dont doubt that there were some difficult interactions
between him and the branch staff.
I think TSBs suggested workarounds are reasonable as a short-term solution. But I dont
think its reasonable to expect Mr S to have managed in this way for six weeks. He doesnt
dispute that he could access his money. His statements show that he tried to mitigate the
situation by regularly transferring funds between his TSB accounts. I think its reasonable to
expect him to have taken some steps like this. But I dont think this should have been
necessary over such a long period of time.TSB says that Mr S had working debit cards for his two other accounts. But I cant conclude
that was the case for the whole of the period in question. I note that a new card was issued
on one of the other accounts on 10 August. Mr Ss statements show that it was used on 22
and 23 August. But he says it worked for just 24 hours and was then declined. This is
supported by the statements as the card wasnt used again.
For the other account, the statements show that Mr S first used a card to make payments on
25 August. He says this card worked initially but was then declined and he says TSB told
him it had been stopped by its fraud team. The statements show there were no further
transactions on this card until 1 September, so I cant conclude that it was working in
between these dates.
I find that Mr S didnt have a working credit card for the relevant period, or until 22 August at
the earliest. So he couldnt have used that to make payments and, even if he could, I think
its understandable if he preferred not to use a credit card.
So, although there were some brief periods between 5 August and 21 September when Mr S
was able to use a debit card, I find that these were short-lived. I find that he was able to
access his funds during this time through Internet Banking and he took steps to keep on top
of his finances by making multiple transfers between accounts. I havent seen any evidence
of financial loss as a result of the card problems. But I dont doubt that the situation was
extremely inconvenient and frustrating for Mr S, given how long it went on for. He couldnt
rely on his cards working, which caused him a great deal of stress as well as practical
difficulties. Mr S says that hes not very IT literate and found the whole situation extremely 
stressful and difficult to deal with. Ive taken this into account when making this decision. Mr 
S has described how he was affected and the embarrassment he suffered through having to 
ask friends and neighbours for help. As TSB pointed out, I havent seen evidence that he 
borrowed money, but I have no reason to doubt what he says about this.
Mr S says that TSB offered no guidance on what he should do and Im satisfied that was the 
case. I hadnt seen any evidence of support from TSB when I wrote my provisional decision 
and so I had factored that into my assessment of the amount of compensation which should 
be paid here. Mr S says he also feels let down because, although TSB acknowledged in its 
final response letter that it had made mistakes, it didnt apologise or offer compensation. The 
final response to the credit card complaint acknowledges that saying sorry doesnt make 
amends for the upset caused and offers £50 for the distress and inconvenience. This hasnt 
been paid, but thats because Mr S didnt accept the offer. In relation to the earlier complaint, 
TSB paid £25 into Mr Ss account in August 2022. So I find that TSB did mention 
compensation when it answered the complaints, although the amount it offered was 
significantly less than what Im going to ask it to pay.
Mr S says that some of his subscription services were cut off because of problems with the
cards. TSB has suggested that most merchants are signed up to an automatic update
service, which updates the card details each time a card is replaced. Ive reviewed Mr Ss
statements and I note that there was no break in payments to a streaming service which Ill
call N in the period from August to December. So I dont find that there was any disruption to
that service. Mr S mentioned another provider, which Ill call D. The only payment to that
provider which Ive been able to identify was in December. From the information Ive seen, I
cant conclude that there was a subscription in place before that or, if there was, that it was
disrupted by the issues with the debit cards. And I havent seen any evidence of disruption to
internet services.
Mr S says he spent hours on the phone to TSB as well as visiting the branch, trying to sort
out the issue. Ive seen his phone records and I note that the cost of these calls was coveredby his monthly call plan. So hes not out of pocket as a result. But he spent over five hours
on the phone to TSB between 10 August and 6 September. Mr S has also pointed out that
the phone bills only show the occasions when he got through to TSB and spoke to someone.
He says there were many other times when he tried ringing and didnt get through. Im also
satisfied that he visited the branch on more than one occasion. I find that Mr S spent a
considerable amount of time communicating with TSB about this issue.
In conclusion, I think TSB made mistakes here which had a negative impact on Mr S. It
should have been possible to provide him with a working debit card for Account 1 very
quickly after his original card was retained by the ATM. But this didnt happen and theres no
doubt this caused Mr S inconvenience and stress. TSB has said that the impact on Mr S was
fairly minimal and that there were workarounds available to him so that he could still use the
funds from Account 1. There were ways in which Mr S could access his funds and I would
expect a customer to take reasonable steps to try to minimise the impact of a situation like
this. I think Mr S tried to do that here. But I dont think its reasonable to expect a customer to
go on making these changes over such a long period of time. It shouldnt take six weeks for
a business to provide a working, replacement card.
So, I think the impact on Mr S was considerable, causing him distress, inconvenience and
disruption over several weeks which needed effort on his part to sort out. TSB needs to pay
Mr S compensation which reflects this. Ive thought about this carefully and considered the
comments from Mr S. Its very difficult to put a monetary value on the stress and 
inconvenience caused by a situation like this. And different customers will experience 
different levels of stress when faced with the same situation. Ive considered all the 
circumstances and the ways in which Mr S specifically was affected. Im awarding 
compensation for the impact TSBs mistakes had on him, not for the mistakes themselves as 
our awards arent intended to punish a business. 
Having thought about everything again, I still think £400 is a fair amount of compensation 
here. Its in line with our general approach to awards and takes account of Mr Ss specific 
circumstances.
So, Im going to ask TSB to pay Mr S compensation of £400 in total. As it has already paid 
£25, this means it will need to pay him a further £375.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay a further £375 to 
Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman