DRN-3633048
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with a car she leased via a hire agreement through Ald Automotive
Limited trading as Kia Contract Hire (ALD). She says the car has had issues with the Petrol
Particulate Filter (PPF) system.
What happened
Mrs M acquired a new car in September 2019 using a hire agreement through ALD over four
years. The monthly rentals were £288.42.
Mrs M says shortly after getting it that the car was using much more petrol than she
expected. And she says the car began to judder when driving. It was returned to the dealer
after around a month, who said that the PPF system was blocked. The dealer carried out a
forced regeneration of the system.
Mrs M complained to ALD. It issued a final response in March 2020. This said, in summary,
that the low MPG Mrs M had got from the car was due to the blocked PPF which had been
repaired. It advised her to monitor the situation.
Over the coming months Mrs M continued to experience the issues with the car. In
November 2020 the car was again returned to the dealer due to issues with the PPF. The
dealer confirmed this was the fifth time the PPF had become blocked and needed a forced
regeneration. Mrs M complained to ALD again.
ALD issued a further final response in December 2020. This said, in summary, that the
dealer had inspected the car and said it didnt have any faults, outside of the blocked PPF.
ALD said it had spoken to the manufacturer who confirmed there were no known issues with
the system. So, it said the issues Mrs M experienced were due to driving style and she
would need to take the car on longer trips at higher speeds to avoid the problem happening
again.
Mrs M remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. She said, in summary,
that she was advised to get this model of car by the dealer after discussing things with them.
She said she wasnt aware the car had a PPF. She said the PPF had recently shown signs
of becoming blocked again. She said her normal driving routine was a 15 to 30 mile round
trip to work and she only took a mileage allowance of 6,000 a year under the agreement.
Mrs M said she was having to take time out to run the car on the motorway. She said the car
had at times showed as high fuel consumption as 11 MPG. And she said if she knew about
the PPF she wouldnt have taken the car and didnt think it was suitable for her.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said, in summary, that he thought there was a
fault with the PPF system. He said the system was blocking despite Mrs M taking the car for
long drives three times a week. He said ALD should allow Mrs M to reject the car, reimburse
her 25% of the repayments to the agreement and pay her £150 to reflect the distress and
inconvenience caused.
ALD disagreed. It said there was no evidence of any fault with the car, said the system was
working as it should and it was indicating when the car needed to be taken for a longer drive.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. So, the case was passed to me to
decide.
After I initially reviewed the case, I asked Mrs M to provide us with some further details of the
conversations at the dealer that took place before she entered into the agreement. She told
us some specific information about what was discussed. This included that:
- She had recently sold a caravan and explained to the salesman this was a specific
reason shed be covering less mileage than previously
- She had a previous lease that had reached the end of the term on a 10,000 annual
mileage limit and wanted to reduce this to reflect the lower mileage she intended to
do
- The salesperson was told where Mrs M lived, where her work was and the distance
of her commute. Mrs M said she specifically remembers that the salesperson was
local and knew the area she worked in, and so knew the day to day use of the car
and route
- At no point was she made aware of the PPF or the need to take the car on longer
journeys
I sent Mrs M and ALD a provisional decision on 4 July 2022. My findings from this decision 
were as follows:
Mrs M complains about a hire agreement. Entering into hire contracts such as this is a
regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider Mrs Ms complaint about ALD.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  ALD here  has a responsibility to
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price,
mileage and description.
So, Ill consider here that the car Mrs M acquired was brand new. And she was paying not
far off £300 a month to lease it. So, I think a reasonable person would have very high
standards for the condition of the car when it was supplied and wouldve expected trouble
free motoring for a significant time.
Our investigator said he thought the PPF system had a fault with it and that this meant the
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. ALD say the car had no fault and was
performing as it should.
Ive considered what the handbook says about the PPF system. This explains a warning light
illuminates  which Mrs M has consistently said it did  when there is an issue with the
system. It explains the following should be done to attempt to make the light go off, which I
can presume is due to these actions making the system regenerate:The vehicle should be driven for more than 30 minutes at a speed of 80 km/h (50 mph) and
faster.
Ensure the following conditions are all met: road safe conditions, transmission 3rd gear or
above; and engine speed of 1,500  4,000 rpm
So, from this I can see that, in order for the PPF to avoid becoming blocked, the car would
have to be regularly taken on journeys which meant doing over 50 mph for over 30 minutes.
Our investigator said Mrs M was making long journeys three times a week. But, I think he
may have misinterpreted what she said here.
In terms of her general use, I dont think this was the case. Mrs M has specifically told us she
mostly used the car for a short commute to work and didnt take it on the motorway.
But, that being said, Im satisfied on balance that the PPF system still had a fault. I say this
as Mrs M has told us she has recently adapted her driving style to take the car on longer
trips including on the motorway, but says the car is still having the same problems. And, it
appears the PPF initially became blocked quite quickly when the car had done a reasonably
low mileage.
So, thinking about all of this I think, on balance, that its likely the car wasnt of satisfactory
quality when it was supplied. That being said, I appreciate this is finely balanced and there is
a lack of evidence around this point. But, whatever I decided here wouldnt affect what I think
is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of this complaint. I say this as whether the
car was of satisfactory quality or not does not tell the whole story and this is not the only
thing I need to consider under the CRA.
The CRA also explains that goods need to be fit for a particular purpose if:
before the contract is made, the consumer makes known to the trader (expressly or by
implication) any particular purpose for which the consumer is contracting for the goods.
It goes on to explain:
The contract is to be treated as including a term that the goods are reasonably fit for that
purpose, whether or not that is a purpose for which goods of that kind are usually supplied
When she brought the complaint to us, Mrs M told us she took the car:
After lengthy conversations with the car dealer salesperson and with previously owning a
(model name) we decided to go for another (model name). We was (sic) advised to opt for a
petrol version as this would suit our current driving needs
And:
If we had been made aware of the problems we could incur with the particle filter blocking
on a petrol vehicle by the salesman instead of being reassured that this was the ideal vehicle
for our driving needs we would not have chosen it.
As explained in the background, Mrs M later provided some further details about these
conversations where she gave us some specific recollections about what was discussed and
what she told the salesperson about the intended use of the car.
Ive carefully thought about all of this. I find Mrs Ms testimony to be persuasive here. Imsatisfied, on balance, that its likely Mrs M gave the salesperson a good description of the
cars intended use and the mileage she would cover. Im satisfied that this means under the
CRA she explained to the trader a particular use for the car that the contract would be
entered into for.
Thinking about Mrs Ms commute, and what Im satisfied she told the salesperson she would
use the car for, Im satisfied this car, because of the PPF system, wasnt fit for the particular
purpose she entered into the contract for. So, this means whether the car was of satisfactory
quality or not, I would still uphold the complaint.
Ive considered whether there is any evidence to mitigate this, such as an explanation of the
PPF and its requirements from the time Mrs M acquired the car. But, I havent seen anything
to suggest this was pointed out to her.
So, I now need to consider what would be reasonable to put this right.
Thinking about the overall situation, and that the car either wasnt of satisfactory quality or
isnt suitable for Mrs M, I think she has a right to reject it given several attempted repairs
have been carried out.
I also think that because of the PPF, the car hasnt been performing as it should. Theres
some evidence here to suggest that for a large portion of the time the car has not been
achieving as high an MPG as Mrs M wouldve expected. And the dealer and ALD have
agreed this is because of the PPF. Mrs M has also been experiencing juddering. And, Mrs M
has explained shes had to go out of her way to drive the car on motorways to try to avoid
the issues.
Our investigator said he thought 25% of the repayments should be reimbursed. I agree with
him that it would be fair for an amount to be reimbursed for impaired usage here. But, 25% is
a high amount for these circumstances, and I need to consider that at points the car was
performing as Mrs M couldve expected. Thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I think
20% of the repayments would reflect this. Our investigator said this should be reimbursed
from February 2020, but I think its fair to say the car didnt perform as it should since Mrs M
got it.
Finally, I agree with our investigator that Mrs M has suffered distress and inconvenience
because of whats happened. The car has had to be returned to the garage on multiple
occasions, and I think it wouldve been upsetting for Mrs M to realise the car wasnt suitable 
for her. So, I think ALD should pay her £150 to reflect this.
I gave both parties two weeks to respond with any further comments or evidence.
Mrs M responded and said she was happy with the provisional decision and didnt have 
anything to add.
ALD responded and asked to clarify if I thought Mrs M should be reimbursed 20% of the 
repayments from the contract date, or from February 2020. Our investigator replied and 
explained that the repayments were from the start date of the agreement. ALD then said if 
Mrs M accepted the decision it would process the recommendations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having thought about all of the information on this case again, I still think the complaint 
should be upheld for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
Just to be absolutely clear, Im satisfied the car wasnt performing as it should, or wasnt 
suitable for the particular use Mrs M required it for, since she acquired it. So, the 20% of 
repayments referred to below includes all repayments made towards the agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Ald Automotive Limited trading as 
Kia Contract Hire to put things right by doing the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs M and at a time and date suitable for her
Reimburse 20% of the repayments made under the agreement*
Pay Mrs M £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to
the time of reimbursement. If ALD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to
withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should
also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman