DRN-4259603
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Ideal Financial Management Limited (Ideal) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British 
Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision of July 2023 saying that I intended to uphold the complaint 
and direct Ideal to pay Mr M compensation. A copy of the background to the complaint and 
my provisional findings, are below in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M chose to opt into the BSPS2  but because he was concerned about what the recent 
announcements by his employer meant for the security of his DB scheme, he sought advice. 
Mr M met first with an adviser in December 2017, but because they didnt have the 
necessary permissions to provide advice on DB pension transfers, they referred Mr M to 
Ideal.
Mr M met with Ideal in January 2018. It completed a financial planning questionnaire with 
him to gather information about his circumstances and objectives.
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr M was aged 54; he was working full-time; he was 
single with no dependants; he had a few thousand pounds in savings; he had other assets of 
around £40,000 and no liabilities. Ideal also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to 
risk, which it deemed to be moderate  a score of three on scale of one to five.
Mr Ms main priority  as recorded on a Pension Transfer Attitude Questionnaire was the 
ability to retire early and at age 55.
On 10 January 2018 Ideal produced a Pension Transfer Initial Assessment and Summary 
document. This summarised Mr Ms circumstances and objectives and brought together 
Ideals analysis of the features and benefits of the BSPS2 versus a personal pension 
arrangement. Ideal concluded here that Mr M should transfer to a personal pension 
arrangement unless his priority was for a guaranteed growing income and he didnt want to 
take any investment risk.
On 14 January 2018 Ideal advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds within a managed investment adopting a lower investment 
risk profile (cautious) to Mr Ms assessed attitude to risk. In summary the suitability report 
said the reasons for this recommendation were: it reflected Mr Ms investment objectives and 
access requirements; it allowed Mr M to utilise the recently introduced pension freedoms; 
and it provided Mr M with greater control over how death benefits could be paid allowing his 
nominated beneficiaries to benefit from any unspent funds rather than the money returning 
back to the scheme.
Mr M accepted the recommendation and a short while after around £466,000 was 
transferred to his new personal pension.
Mr M complained to Ideal in 2020, using the services of a representative, about the suitability 
of the advice he received.
Ideal didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary it said Mr Ms objective could not be met 
by remaining in the DB scheme  he would not have been able to secure his main objective 
of early retirement on an income to meet his lifestyle. It said it carried out detailed cash flow 
forecasts including stress testing various scenarios to ensure Mr Ms requirements could be 
met in a variety of situations. It said Mr M confirmed his requirements in a handwritten note 
explaining why he decided to proceed with the transfer.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required Ideal to pay compensation. In summary they said Ideals 
transfer analysis showed that the growth rate required to match Mr Ms existing scheme 
benefits at both 55 and 65 wasnt likely to be achievable, particularly given Mr Ms recorded 
attitude to risk. And they said there were no other reasons to justify the transfer and worth 
giving up his guaranteed benefits for. They said there was no clear evidence that Mr M 
wanted to retire early at the time of the advice. They said this was a decision he couldve 
made nearer the time - he didnt have to make an irreversible decision to transfer now. They 
said if it was Mr Ms desire to retire at 55 they thought he wouldve benefitted from the higher 
starting level of income through the PPF, so he shouldve been advised to transfer to the 
PPF, which they believed he wouldve followed.
Ideal disagreed. In summary it said that Mr Ms main priority was to retire at 55, this is what 
was recorded in the advice paperwork at the time and this is what he went on to do. It also 
said that separate to the suitability of advice, it believes any loss calculation should be made 
against the PPF and not the BSPS2. 
It said the BSPS2 was not certain to go ahead at the time  it was only a proposal. And while 
in hindsight it did go ahead, using it as a metric would be wrong.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr Ms representative said that it believed it was 
appropriate and fair for Ideal to calculate losses both on the basis of the BSPS and the PPF 
(and at age 65) and Mr M should be compensated on whichever produced the higher loss.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion.While Ideal maintained its view that the advice was suitable, it carried out a loss calculation 
based on the benefits available to Mr M through the PPF at age 60, which showed there was 
no redress due. But it offered £300, recognising the investigators recommended distress 
and inconvenience award, to settle the matter.
Mr M rejected the offer. He said his needs werent finalised at the time of the advice and 
there was a high possibility hed continue working until 65. He said he relied on the negligent 
advice and started taking an income at 55 and he retired. Mr M said that he didnt realise the 
detrimental impact taking his benefits 10 years early would have. Mr M said he shouldve 
been advised that it was in his best interests to be in the BSPS2  so the offer should be 
based on the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 and at age 65.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Ideal's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, while Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator, I want to expand on my 
reasoning particularly in relation to the assumptions that should be used to calculate redress. 
My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Ideal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
Ideal carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And because Mr M had chosen to opt-in to the 
BSPS2, this was based on the benefits available to him under the BSPS2.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr M was 54 at the time of the advice and he ideally wanted to retire at 55. The critical yield 
required to match Mr Ms benefits at age 55 was in excess of 50% if he took either a full 
pension or if he took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. Ideal also produced figures at 
age 65  these were 8.79% and 6.75% respectively. The critical yields to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 55 were quoted as being in excess of 50% per year if Mr M 
took a full pension and 44.69% per year if he took a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.3% based on a retirement age of 55. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms 
moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be little 
point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the lowest critical 
yield was 6.75%. But this was based on a retirement age of 65. For Mr Ms intended 
retirement age of 55 and what the advice was predicated on, the critical yield was in excess 
of 50%.
Given this rate was so far above both the discount rate and the regulators upper projection 
rate, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension and invested in line 
with a moderate attitude to risk, notwithstanding the fact that he actually invested in a lower 
risk profile fund.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, albeit at this stage all of the indications were that it would 
go ahead, Mr M wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. 
And given the critical yields were also significant  the lowest was 44.69% as I referred to 
above - it seems likely to me that Mr M would also be worse of in retirement as a result of 
transferring even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Im mindful that Mr M was single and the critical yields above are based on providing the 
same benefits as Mr Ms DB scheme, which included a spouses pension. I can see Ideal 
also referred to the Hurdle rate in its advice paperwork because of this  this is the 
estimated annual return needed to match the starting level of the DB pension but ignores any spouses pension or increases in payment. And this was significantly lower  minus 
18.98% (full pension) and minus 20% (reduced pension and a cash lump sum.) But while I 
appreciate Mr M might not have been concerned about the spouses pension at this time  
albeit he might have married in the future in which case it would be of relevance  crucially 
the hurdle rate ignores increases in the pension payment. So I still think the critical yield is 
important and reflects the true value of the DB pension benefits Mr M was considering giving 
up.
I can see that Ideal produced various cashflow analyses, which it says supports the transfer 
as being financially worthwhile or viable despite the high critical yields. And Ive considered 
these.
Firstly Ideal produced analysis to show the investment return needed to ensure Mr Ms 
pension fund lasted until 90 assuming he took the same level of income from his pension as 
his DB scheme provided. And this showed it required an investment return of 3.15% a year. I 
believe the return quoted was before charges, so the gross return required was higher. In 
any event, as I said above, there would be little point in Mr M transferring only to match the 
benefits available to him through the DB scheme.
Ideal also produced analysis looking at Mr Ms spending capacity. This said Mr M could 
spend an extra £5,264 a year compared to remaining in the DB scheme - a withdrawal of 
just over £24,400 - should he transfer based on net growth of 4.5% a year on his pension 
fund. It also stress tested the analysis where it included periods of poor performance and 
assumed growth of 4.5% a year after charges for the remaining years. I think including 
stress testing was appropriate here - but nevertheless a net annual growth after charges 
equates to a gross annual return in excess of 6% a year (based on the annual charges Ideal 
quoted in the suitability report.) Given the regulators standard projection rates (which I 
consider to be realistic as opposed to trying to project historic returns going forward) and 
taking account of the cautious risk investment fund recommended, Im not persuaded this 
required level of return would be considered reasonably achievable on a consistent annual 
basis. In any event, the analysis showed that in this scenario Mr M would run out of money 
at age 83. So Im not persuaded this demonstrates the transfer was financially viable.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ms best interests. But I 
accept financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Ideal has 
argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Ideals advice paperwork referred to the flexibility of a personal pension. Ideal said a transfer 
would provide Mr M with the flexibility in how and when he chose to take funds as well as 
have access to a higher tax-free cash lump sum.
But I dont think Mr M needed flexibility in retirement  I think this was simply a feature or a 
consequence of transferring to a personal pension arrangement. Mr M didnt for example 
have a need to access his tax-free cash early and defer taking income. 
And I cant see that he had a strong need for a variable income throughout retirement  his 
expenditure need appears to have been fixed. And because Mr M didnt have a mortgage or 
other liabilities to deal with, I cant see he had a specific need to have access to a higher tax-
free cash lump sum available to him by transferring.
Mr Ms main objective was to retire early and ideally at age 55. Because Mr M was 54 at the 
time of the advice, I think its reasonable to assume that hed given the matter some thought. That said, just because this was Mr Ms main objective, which Ideal has repeatedly pointed 
out, this doesnt mean Ideal could simply facilitate what Mr M wanted. Its role was to really 
understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests. And if that 
meant that it didnt think it was affordable for Mr M to retire at 55 or it wasnt in his best 
interests to transfer out of the BSPS to achieve things then it shouldve said so.
Of course Mr M already had the option available to him to retire early  he didnt need to 
transfer out to achieve this. But Ideal says that Mr M couldnt have achieved his objective by 
remaining in the scheme.
According to Ideals analysis, Mr Ms basic expenditure need was around £16,000 a year 
and when leisure activities were added, this took his annual expenditure need to around 
£21,700 a year. Ideal recorded that, according to Mr Ms time to choose information, his 
expected annual pension income from the BSPS2 at age 55 was estimated to be £15,082. 
On the face of it, this would suggest there was an income shortfall.
But Im mindful that the expenditure need Ideal recorded appears to be based on Mr Ms 
current expenditure while he was working. Ive not seen a breakdown of how the total 
expenditure figure was arrived at  Ideals advice paperwork only shows the total figure and 
not amounts against individual categories, such as utilities, food, transport etc. But while I 
accept Mr M was renting, and so in retirement this cost would continue, in my view an 
expenditure figure of £21,700 a year appears quite high for a single person.
I can see Mr M indicated in the pension transfer questionnaire Ideal completed, that he was 
happy to accept a lower pension for retiring early. But Ideals file doesnt suggest that it fully 
explored this and the extent to which Mr M might have been able to adjust his lifestyle to 
make things work by interrogating his expenditure. Had it done so, its possible that a 
starting income of £15,082 knowing that it was guaranteed and would increase in value, 
might have worked for Mr M meaning that his needs could be met by remaining in the DB 
scheme. Furthermore Mr M had a small amount in savings, he had a small amount in his 
workplace DC pension scheme and he had assets of around £40,000. So Mr M couldve 
used these to supplement his pension income until his state pension became payable.
But ultimately Mr M didnt need to make his decision now. Mr M couldve taken the time to 
re-think his plans and expenditure need and decide, when the time came, to what extent he 
was prepared to accept a lower pension income by retiring early at 55.
So overall I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his pension at this 
stage just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
I can see Ideal also recommended Mr M transfer his DB scheme benefits to provide him with 
more control over how death benefits could be paid.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension might have sounded like an attractive feature to Mr M  
Ideal recoded that Mr M was keen for his brother and his family to benefit from any residual 
funds.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provision.A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  it is not primarily a legacy 
planning tool. So I dont think Ideal shouldve encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for 
higher or death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement  even 
more so because Mr M was single and he didnt have any dependants to take care of.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think its likely that Mr M, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There was lots of negative sentiment 
about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr M was also leaning towards the decision to 
transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer and what might happen. I can 
see Mr M indicated in the pension transfer attitude questionnaire that he wanted to break all 
ties with his employer and move his pension to an arrangement under his control.
But to a greater extent, these concerns were already alleviated because Mr M had decided 
to opt-into the BSPS2. And as Ive already explained, at the time of the advice it seemed 
likely the BSPS2 would go ahead as envisaged.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead and the scheme 
moved to the PPF, the position was not as concerning as he thought or was led to believe. 
This is because if Mr M did follow through with his intention to retire at 55, his starting 
pension income was likely higher than the £15,082 a year Ideal recorded the BSPS2 would 
offer him at 55 based on Mr Ms Time to Choose information (the PPF offered a favourable 
reduction for very early retirement.) Importantly Mr M was unlikely to be able to exceed this 
by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr M might not 
have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but Im not persuaded he had a need to do 
so.
So I dont think that Mr Ms concerns about the scheme was a compelling reason to transfer 
out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But Ideal 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted or seemed like a good 
idea. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
Mr M shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have flexibility, and 
the potential for higher or different death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Ideal shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Ideal's 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Ideals advice. I say this because I dont think Mr 
M could reasonably be described as an experienced investor who possessed the necessary 
skill, knowledge or confidence to go against the advice they were given. Mr M had a 
relatively low-risk attitude to investing and this pension was the primary source of his private 
retirement provision. So, if Ideal had provided him with clear advice against transferring out 
of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about his death benefits and his employer were so 
great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. If Ideal had explained that Mr M could likely meet his objective without risking 
his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr M 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Ideal should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's non-compliant pension transfer advice redress methodology.
I can see the investigator said that Ideal ought to have recommended Mr M move with the 
scheme to the PPF and it is on this basis the loss calculation should be carried out.
But importantly here, the advice happened after the Time to Choose exercise. And Mr M 
had already chosen to opt-into the BSPS2 prior to receiving advice from Ideal  a decision 
which, I understand from the scheme trustees, could not be revoked.
So because at the time of the advice Ideal could not have recommended Mr M remain with 
the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF, as I will explain below, it is the benefits 
available to Mr M through the BSPS2 that should be used in calculating the extent to which 
Mr M has lost out as a result of the unsuitable advice.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr M. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Ideal  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr M.
Taking everything into account, including Mr Ms retirement status and that I consider he is 
now at the age when his retirement provision is of even greater importance, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Ideal indicated that it wouldnt be responding to my final decision and it would wait for my 
final decision.
Mr Ms representative replied. It said it disagreed that the compensation should be based on 
Mr M taking his benefits at age 55. In summary it asked me to consider the following:
Mr M was advised he could retire at 55  but his plans werent set in stone and he 
says he wouldve continued working and allowed his pension time to grow if he was advised to do so. He says he didnt realise it would be detrimental to him retiring 10 
years before the schemes normal retirement age.
Ideal didnt make the effects of early retirement apparent in either scenario of staying 
in the DB scheme or transferring out.
Mr M has had to reduce his income withdrawal from his pension to avoid exhausting 
his pension fund. Given Mr Ms limited investment experience, the Ombudsman must 
question the extent to which Mr M wouldve had confidence in unknown investment 
returns producing the required income for the rest of his life. Mr M says he would not 
have transferred his pension if he was advised that unsustainable levels of drawdown 
would affect his standard of living in retirement.
Mr M may have been open to working outside of his industry in a reduced capacity to 
supplement the income from his pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and thought about what Mr Ms representative has said in response to my 
provisional decision, Ive not been persuaded to change my mind  Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I set out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
Mr Ms representative has made several points to highlight why the advice to transfer out of 
the BSPS was unsuitable for Mr M. Ive already concluded it was unsuitable for the reasons I 
explained in detail in my provisional decision  so its not necessary to repeat these here.
Im still of the view that given Mr M was 54 at the time of the advice, had things happened as 
they should have and hed been advised to stay in the DB scheme, he wouldve most likely 
still taken his DB scheme benefits early and retired at 55. As I said, I think the income from 
the DB scheme wouldve likely been sufficient to meet his needs, particularly given he 
indicated he was willing to accept a lower pension in return for the opportunity of retiring 
early. And as Mr Ms representative has said, if the income from the DB scheme wasnt 
enough, he couldve chosen to supplement it through part-time work.
For this reason, and because Mr M did retire at 55 and start taking his pension benefits, I 
think it is fair for Ideal to calculate compensation on the basis that Mr M would most likely  
have accessed his DB scheme benefits at the same age had suitable advice been given. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider that, if suitable 
advice had been given, Mr M would most likely have remained in the occupational pension 
scheme and because hed already chosen to opt into the BSPS2, he wouldve joined the 
BSPS2. 
Ideal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. Ideal should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation.
For clarity, Mr M retired at 55 and started drawing his benefits. So, as Ive explained above, 
compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Ideal should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Ideals offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Ideal may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Ideal should also pay Mr M £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and direct Ideal Financial 
Management Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Ideal Financial Management Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts a subsequent final decision, the money award becomes binding on Ideal 
Financial Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept any 
final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman