DRN-4278120
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent the loss he 
suffered when he sent a payment to one of its customers accounts because of a scam.
Mr C has used a representative to bring his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly just 
refer to and will ascribe the representatives comments to Mr C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I will keep my summary 
of what happened brief and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr C says hes fallen victim to an impersonation scam. He was contacted via email by a 
self-claimed UK private banker who told him that he was the beneficiary of their deceased 
clients inheritance fund as he shared the same family name as them. Between April and May 
2022 Mr C made four payments totalling over £54,000 to three different recipient accounts, 
with three different payment service providers (PSPs). At the time Mr C believed the 
payments he was making were towards legal fees and HMRC bills to release the inheritance 
money. 
Relevant to this complaint is a payment of £25,940 which credited the NatWest account on 
27 May 2022. The payment was sent from Mr Cs account with his own bank which is based 
outside the UK.
In short, Mr C complained to NatWest that it had likely failed: to meet its obligations when 
allowing its customers account to be opened; in its monitoring of the recipient account; and 
in its response when notified of the fraud. He asked that it refund his loss.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it couldnt agree to a refund, nor could it 
disclose any information or details about the investigation it carried out. The matter was 
referred to our service. Our Investigator concluded as there had been no failure by NatWest 
which had resulted in a loss to Mr C it didnt need to do anything further to resolve his 
complaint. Mr C did not accept the Investigators assessment and asked that an 
Ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate the outcome will be 
disappointing for Mr C, and Im genuinely sorry to hear about his loss, but I cant fairly and 
reasonably ask NatWest to refund this. Ill explain why.
I think its important for me to start by explaining that an account later found to have been 
utilised to receive fraudulently obtained funds doesnt automatically entitle the payer (victim) 
to a refund from the recipient PSP nor does it mean that the recipient PSP reasonably failed 
to prevent the loss. In circumstances such as these where Mr C has no direct relationship 
with NatWest, I can only ask it to refund Mr Cs loss if I think it has failed in such a way that it 
can fairly and reasonably be concluded that its act or omission caused the loss. 
With that in mind, Im satisfied that NatWest carried out checks (in line with its regulatory 
obligations) to verify the identity of the named accountholder and did its due diligence when 
opening the recipient account. There was nothing at the time that I think reasonably couldve 
alerted NatWest that the account it was opening would later be used to receive fraudulently 
obtained funds. So I dont think it missed an opportunity to prevent Mr Cs loss when opening 
the account.
I understand given the sum involved why Mr C feels there has likely been a failure by 
NatWest in the monitoring of the recipient account. But when deciding such matters, its not 
just about the size of a payment, I must also take into account other factors such as (and not 
limited to) whether the payment followed the recipient accountholders typical or expected 
account activity; whether it represented a sudden increase and significant change in the 
operation of the account; and/or if the pattern of spending was indicative of potential 
misappropriation of funds. Having reviewed the account activity I agree with the Investigator 
that I dont think the arrival and spending of Mr Cs payment was suspicious or unusual 
enough for NatWest to have reasonably been concerned that the account was being used 
for fraudulent purposes. 
And even if I were wrong about this and/or I agreed (which to be clear I dont) with Mr C that 
NatWest's systems ought to have flagged the incoming payment or those leaving the 
account, in these circumstances, I still dont think it would be fair to ask NatWest to refund 
Mr C's loss. I say this because even if NatWest's systems had flagged the payment for a 
review, from what Ive seen there was nothing about the incoming payment or the payments 
leaving the account that would've given them enough of a cause for concern. The incoming 
payment had no beneficiary name mismatch, the way in which it was spent did not fit an 
obvious or known pattern of fraud, the account since opening (July 2021) had been 
operating without any concern, and NatWest had not received any reports of fraud in relation 
to the account. Therefore, in this case, even if NatWest had gone as far as to have had a 
conversation with their accountholder, it's most likely that the accountholder, if asked, 
would've confirmed that they were the intended recipient and that everything was ok. And at 
that point I cant see a basis upon which NatWest couldve contested what it was being told. 
NatWest have also confirmed, and shared systems records which show that aside from 
Mr Cs complaint (raised through his representative several months later in August 2022) it 
hasnt received any other reports (in relation to the recipient account) about fraudulent 
payments. So it follows that I can't fairly and reasonably conclude that NatWest could've 
prevented Mr C's loss in this way either.
To date Mr Cs bank hasnt sent notification of fraud to NatWest. It isn't unreasonable for a 
recipient PSP to request formal notification of fraud from the remitting bank before taking 
steps to assist in the recovery of the disputed funds. One of the reasons for this is to mitigate 
the risk of malicious claims from unknown parties, which to be clear isnt something Im 
suggesting has happened here. But even if I were to say NatWest ought to have done 
something more when it received Mr C's complaint in August 2022, his funds had long been 
spent. So based on what I've seen I can't say how NatWest chose to respond to the 
notification of fraud it received directly from Mr C impacted what it couldve recovered from 
the recipient account. For completeness, Im also satisfied NatWest havent acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
informing Mr C that it cant share (with him) information about the recipient accountholder 
and the investigation it carried out. As the information contains someone elses personal 
data, in the circumstances of this case, without their being a lawful basis and/or consent 
from the third party whose data it is, NatWest cant share this with Mr C. 
I sympathise with Mr C being the victim of a scam. But as Im not persuaded his loss is as a
result of failings by NatWest, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct them to 
do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman