DRN-3415153
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their travel insurance 
claim. 
Any reference to UKI includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have travel insurance alongside their current account. UKI is the underwriter 
on the policy. 
In September 2019, Mr and Mrs M booked a holiday and paid a deposit. They were due to 
travel on 7 June 2020. But because of the increased uncertainty surrounding Covid-19 at the 
time, and due to the health of Mrs M, they decided to cancel their trip on 8 February 2020. 
The terms of their booking with the holiday company meant that the deposit was non-
refundable. So, Mr and Mrs M submitted a claim to UKI for the loss they suffered. 
UKI assessed their claim and declined it. It said the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO)  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)  
wasnt advising against all but essential travel in February 2020. It said Mr and Mrs M 
therefore had no cover for their cancelled trip as their decision to cancel was because of a 
disinclination to travel. Also they cancelled their trip outside of the 28 days required within 
the policy terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs M provided evidence showing Mrs M went into 
hospital on 4 March 2020 and a letter from their GP confirming she was too ill to travel. UKI 
reviewed the information but remained of the opinion that the claim was declined. This was 
because the GP hadnt advised that the trip be cancelled due to Mrs Ms medical grounds. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. He didnt think the claim had been declined 
unfairly. He said there was no FCDO advice in place not to travel when Mr and Mrs M 
cancelled their trip. Hed also considered that Mrs M was too ill to travel but said there was 
no evidence to suggest the trip was cancelled on the recommendation of the GP. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy with UKI as this 
forms the basis of their contract.
The cancellation section of the policy on, page 19, sets out what is covered in the event a 
trip is cancelled. This says:
Part 1  Covers For Your Trip
Cancelling Your Trip (up to the point of departure)
This section provides cover if you need to cancel your trip. The cover starts when 
you book the trip and ends when you reach your point of departure.
Before booking a trip please take a look at the Medical Screening section on page 8. 
You need to let us know about any medical conditions, if you do not there will be 
no cancellation cover for claims related to your medical conditions.
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if 
you have to cancel your trip, including:
 Deposits.
 Commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
 Car hire.
 Excursions and activities.
 Kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter costs.
 Car parking charges.
 The value of used points or miles if you booked your flight or accommodation using 
Avios or a similar promotional scheme.
[]
Reasons for cancellation
1. Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of any insured 
person, your travelling companion, a close relative, a colleague
or anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with.
2. Court cases and quarantine: any insured person, your travelling companion 
or anyone outside your home area that you had planned to
stay with is quarantined, called for jury service or as a witness in a court and a court 
official has refused to postpone it.
3. Unemployment: any insured person or your travelling companion is made 
redundant, or have a self-employed contract terminated early by the other party after 
you opened your Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip, 
whichever is later.
4. Armed forces and emergency services: as a member of the British Armed 
Forces or Emergency Services any insured person or travelling companion has 
authorised leave cancelled due to an unexpected emergency.
5. Fire, storm, flood or burglary: any insured person or your travelling 
companion has to stay at their home or their place of business in the UK as a result 
of it being seriously damaged by fire, storm, flood or burglary in the seven days  
before departure on your trip.
6. Pet emergency: your pet cat or dog needs emergency life-saving treatment in the 
seven days before departure on your trip.
7. Passport or visa: your passport or visa is stolen in the seven days before your 
departure on your trip and you cant arrange a replacement in time.8. FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against 
All travel to your destination. The advice must have come into force after you 
opened your Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip whichever is 
later.
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start 
date the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to 
your destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your 
Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
10. Natural disaster: you are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation due to the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a 
natural disaster.
11. Vehicle accident or breakdown: your vehicle is involved in an accident or 
breaks down in the seven days before your trip and cant be repaired in time.
12. Pregnancy: any insured person or your travelling companion becomes 
aware that they are pregnant and are advised by a doctor not to travel as a direct 
result, or your transport operator confirms they would be travelling outside the 
conditions of carriage. The pregnancy must have been confirmed after you opened 
your Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip, whichever is later.
13. Vaccinations: any insured person or your travelling companion is advised by 
a doctor not to travel as they cant have the recommended vaccinations for the trip 
destination due to a medical condition. The medical condition must have been 
diagnosed after you opened your Nationwide FlexPlus current account, or booked 
your trip, whichever is later.
You are not covered for
We wont pay for:
[]
2. Any claim due to you not wanting to travel.
[]
Should the claim be declined?
Based on the above, cover is provided under the policy in the event the FCDO advise 
against all but essential travel, but this has to be within the 28 days before the trip start date. 
However, Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip outside of the 28-day requirement, so Im 
satisfied there is no cover available for the trip they cancelled in February 2020. 
There is cover on the policy for illness of an insured person. I can see that UKI requested 
further information from Mr and Mrs M confirming that the GP wouldve advised them to 
cancel the trip when they did because of Mrs Ms medical conditions. The GP did provide a 
letter, but the letter said he hadnt advised Mrs M not to travel due to health grounds and 
instead they were referred to follow the government advice at the time. I understand Mrs M 
did go into hospital, but this was around a month after the trip was cancelled. 
I appreciate the reasons why Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip but, in the circumstances of 
this complaint, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M have cover under the listed events 
under the cancellation of their policy. There was no FCDO advice in place against all but 
essential travel and the trip was cancelled outside of the 28 day requirement. Additionally, 
while I understand why Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip, there was no evidence to suggest 
they cancelled it on the advice of a medical professional. 
Mr and Mrs M have said they have cover for cancelling the trip due to a pandemic. While I 
accept there is such cover under their policy, the World Health Organisation (WHO) did not 
declare Covid-19 a pandemic until 11 March 2020 and because the trip was cancelled in February 2020  before WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic - there would be no cover 
available in the circumstances of what happened here.
The terms and conditions confirm whats not covered and not wanting to travel is one of 
those reasons. I do entirely understand why Mr and Mrs M cancelled the trip, but this doesnt 
mean that UKI should now be responsible. 
Overall, taking everything into account, Im satisfied the claim wasnt declined by UKI unfairly 
or unreasonably. Mr and Mrs M made the decision to cancel their trip for reasons which are 
not covered under their policy. I therefore dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask UKI to accept the claim. It follows that I dont require UKI to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman