Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he took on finance from Black Horse Limited was not of 
satisfactory quality and was misrepresented to him. Specifically, he says that its fuel 
consumption was significantly worse than advertised.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mr W entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement with Black Horse. 
The car had been first registered in November 2015 and had covered around 15,600 miles. 
It had a cash price of just over £9,500. 
In or around September 2020 the cars engine failed. Mr W arranged for repairs. The 
dealership which had supplied the car offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to reimburse the 
repair costs of £2,000. Mr W accepted that offer.
Mr W remained unhappy, however. He said in December 2021 that the car had been 
advertised as having a fuel consumption of 76mpg, but he had only achieved half that over 
the time he had the car. Things had not improved after the repair. Mr W said he had incurred 
additional fuel costs of some £2,000. 
Black Horse said that the fuel consumption figures were indicative and were obtained from a 
pre-2017 test. By the time Black Horse addressed the complaint, Mr W was no longer in 
possession of the car.
Mr W referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She was not persuaded however that Mr W had been misled about the cars fuel 
consumption or that it was not of satisfactory quality. Mr W did not accept the investigators 
view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall comment briefly on the engine failure in September 2020. Mr W arranged for repairs 
himself, and the dealership agreed to pay for them in full and final settlement of all Mr Ws 
claims against the dealership in respect of the car, after this service was involved. 
Black Horse was not a party to that arrangement, and I do not understand Mr W to be 
suggesting it should take any action in respect of the engine failure. For the avoidance of 
DRN-3438700Page 2 of 3any doubt, however, I do not believe it would be fair to require Black Horse to compensate 
Mr W for issues he has already resolved with the dealership. 
I turn then to Mr Ws concerns about the cars fuel consumption. He has supplied a copy of a 
manufacturers advertisement for a car of the same model. It includes: 
Miles per tank  1,170 miles
Fuel consumption Pre-2017 test  76mpg   
I accept that Mr W was presented with the same or very similar information before he agreed 
to take the car. 
The hire purchase agreement itself included details of the car, but it did not say anything 
about its fuel consumption. I do not believe therefore that it was a term of the contract that 
the car could achieve 76mpg (or indeed any other figure). 
I have considered therefore whether the stated fuel consumption constituted a 
misrepresentation. In this context, a misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact made 
by one party to a contract to the other and which induces that party to enter into the contract. 
Statements made by the dealership are deemed to be made on behalf of Black Horse.
I do not believe that a statement about fuel consumption of the kind which Mr W saw here 
could give rise to a claim in misrepresentation. Fuel consumption figures are generally 
provided so that drivers can compare different vehicles across makes, models and engine 
options. For that reason, they are obtained following standardised testing procedures. They 
do not, however, represent a statement that a particular make and model of vehicle will 
achieve the published fuel economy. Actual fuel consumption depends on many factors  
including driving style, journey type, road surface, tyres, weather and load. And fuel 
consumption will usually increase as a car gets older, even if it is well-maintained. I do not 
believe it would be fair to conclude that the information in the advertisement amounted to a 
statement that Mr W would achieve 76mpg. 
As Mr W says, the hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term that the car 
would be of satisfactory quality. Such a term is implied by the Consumer Rights Act 2015. A 
car is of satisfactory quality if it is of the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances. The circumstances here include the cars age and mileage. 
Generally, I would not expect satisfactory quality to include a cars fuel consumption, 
although it might be an indication of other problems. I do not believe however that a 
reasonable person would expect a used car which had covered 15,000 miles to have the 
same fuel economy as a new car. And I note as well that, by the end of 2021, Mr W had 
covered a further 19,000 miles.    
Even if I were to take a different view on these points, however, there is unfortunately little 
evidence for what Mr W says is excessive fuel consumption. It may be that there were 
underlying issues with the car  beyond wear and tear  that affected the fuel economy. 
Since Mr W sold the car before Black Horse had had an opportunity to inspect it, however, it 
is not possible to know if that is the case. I say that not as a criticism of Mr W, who was 
entitled to dispose of the car in line with the hire purchase agreement, but simply as an 
explanation of a further reason why I cannot fairly say that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality. Page 3 of 3My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Black Horse Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman