DRN-4065838
Complaint
Miss H has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable and therefore shouldnt have been lent to her.
Background
118 118 Money provided Miss H with a loan for £1,500.00 in April 2015. This loan had an 
APR of 99.9% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£2,822.64, including interest, fees and charges of £1,322.64, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just under £120. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Hs complaint and she thought 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have provided Miss H with her loan. So she thought that Miss Hs complaint should 
be upheld. 
118 118 Money didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Hs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to find out enough about Miss H such that it could have a 
reasonable understanding of whether Miss H could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information 118 118 Money has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
and obtained bank statements before this loan was provided. The credit check showed that 
Miss H was already significantly indebted. 
And Miss H was already using most of the credit available to her on her revolving credit 
commitments. So I think that 118 118 Money ought to have obtained more further 
information from Miss H in order to have been able to make an informed decision on whether 
to lend to her. Furthermore, its clear from the additional information Ive seen that Miss Hs 
expenditure exceeded her income in many of the months leading up to this application.
 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Miss H has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Miss Hs indebtedness reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add 
that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 118 Money, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Miss Hs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Hs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without suffering adverse 
consequences or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Miss Hs circumstances would more like than 
not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 118 118 
Money provided Miss H with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Miss H ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss H lost out because of what 118 118 Money did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Miss H
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Miss H by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss H paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss H to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Miss Hs credit file, if it remains, as a 
result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman