DRN-2253105
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R are unhappy that UIA (Insurance) Limited (UIA) turned down their claim for 
storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R contacted UIA to make a claim for damage storm damage to their 
conservatory. UIA assessed the damage and turned down the claim as it said the damage 
was due to wear and tear, not a one-off storm incident. When Mr R and Mrs R complained to 
UIA, it maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Mr R and Mrs R complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said it was reasonable for UIA to turn down the claim because there wasnt evidence of a 
storm around the time of the claim. UIAs surveyor also found evidence of temporary repairs, 
which suggested that the water getting in was more likely to be due to wear and tear, which 
wasnt covered by the policy. He also said that the damage didnt meet the definition of 
accidental damage, so he didnt think the claim should be accepted under that part of the 
policy either.
As Mr R and Mrs R did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R and Mrs R made a claim for storm damage to their conservatory. When we look at a 
storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Mr R and Mrs R arent sure when the damage happened. So, Ive 
looked at the weather conditions around the time of the claim and these dont show storm 
conditions. Mr R and Mrs R have said that they last used the conservatory in the late 
summer period last year and found this damage in the early part of this year. Although there 
might have been storm conditions during that time period, it is a significant timeframe. So I 
dont think it would be reasonable to search that whole timeframe in order to see if there was 
a storm given Mr R and Mrs R still wouldnt be able to say with any real certainty that was 
when the damage happened. 
Im also aware that Mr R has provided weather data for the local area over a large period of 
time as evidence of bad weather. However, that still doesnt show me that there was a storm 
at the time when this damage happened and bad weather isnt covered by the policy, it 
needs to be storm conditions. So, I think that the answer to this first question is no, in which 
case, I dont think that UIA needed to take any further action on this claim.
Nonetheless, Ive considered the other evidence in this case to see if this would cause me to 
think that a storm was the main cause of the damage. Having done so, I still dont think the 
evidence shows me that a storm was the likely cause. This is because there are signs of 
repair to the conservatory, such as some sealant being applied to parts of the structure. This 
suggests to me that there were signs of wear and tear and that it was reasonable for UIA to 
conclude that this was the more likely cause of water entering the conservatory and the 
resulting damage. Ive also thought about the assessment Mr R and Mrs R provided from the 
conservatory company that gave them a quote. This said that it viewed the damage 
sustained to your conservatory roof due to storms and then It would appear that 2 of the 
roof rafter caps have been lifted in the winds. But I dont think this overrides the wear and 
tear identified by UIAs surveyor and it doesnt show that the damage happened as the result 
of a particular storm.
So, Ive also considered whether the claim would be covered by the accidental damage part 
of the policy. The exclusions in that part of the policy said it didnt cover (Section A is the 
buildings section of the policy):
Loss or damage caused by water entering your home, unless more specifically covered 
elsewhere under Section A of the policy. For example, Section A would
cover damage caused by water entering your home if it is entering because storm
force winds have damaged your roof. But if there is no evidence of wind damage
and water is entering solely because your roof is old and worn, this would not be covered.
Given that I dont think that the buildings section of the policy provides cover for this 
damage, I also dont think the claim should be accepted under the accidental damage 
section, based on the wording of the policy.
So, thinking about all of the above, and although Im aware that this will be a disappointment 
to Mr R and Mrs R, I think it was reasonable for UIA to turn down this claim, as I dont think 
that the damage was the result of an insured peril under the terms of the policy. It therefore 
follows that I dont uphold this complaint or require UIA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman