DRN-3841266
The complaint
Mr F complains about the level of service provided by Vitality Corporate Services Limited 
after he bought a motor insurance policy with it. 
What happened
Mr F said he bought a policy with Vitality because it came with an app that provided driving 
data and financial benefits. Unfortunately, the app didnt perform as expected and Mr F 
complained. Vitality said there were technical issues it couldnt easily resolve. It agreed that 
it had provided a poor service and it offered Mr F £250 compensation or to cancel his policy 
from the start and refund his premiums. But Mr F wanted it to make the app work correctly.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Vitality 
had tried to resolve the issue without success. And he thought it had made Mr F two 
reasonable offers to resolve his complaint. 
Mr F replied that hed provided Vitality with advice about how to resolve the issue, but it 
wasnt competent to do this. Mr F thought Vitality was being let off from resolving the issue. 
Mr F wanted further compensation for his time spent, and his loss of benefits from the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr F feels frustrated that Vitality hasnt been able to provide him with 
the service he expected. Hes explained that hes spent hours on the phone and sending 
emails and screenshots to demonstrate the problem with the app and to suggest solutions. 
He wants the app fixed. But, he concluded in his complaint to us, Vitality has no idea what 
the issue is or how to resolve it.
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to tell Vitality to correct the issues 
with the app or how to do this. If Mr F is concerned that Vitality isnt able to deliver what it is 
promising and this is affecting other customers, this may be something he would like to raise 
with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is to consider Mr Fs complaint 
and how Vitality has looked to resolve it. 
In its response to Mr Fs complaint, Vitality explained that it had already tried to resolve the 
issue, but it needed further information from him to take this further. It offered Mr F the 
options of £250 compensation for its poor service or, if he wanted to cancel his policy from 
the start, then it would refund his premiums in full. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Vitality accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
To restore Mr Fs position, Vitality asked for further screenshots to better understand and 
resolve the faults with the app. It said it would reimburse Mr F for any cash benefits lost. 
And, from what I can see, it compensated Mr F for his lost benefits from the policy for three 
months. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances and it restores Mr Fs position 
as far as its possible to do so.  
In terms of the impact the error had on Mr F, Im satisfied that Vitality offered him two fair 
and reasonable options for his six months of trouble and upset. If he wanted to stay with 
Vitality, it offered him £250 compensation. This is in keeping with our published guidance for 
the level of impact the error caused. So I think thats fair and reasonable. 
If Mr F wanted to walk away, then it offered him a full refund of his premiums. Mr F was 
concerned that he would then lose future benefits from completing the policy year. But I cant 
say what would happen during the rest of the policy year, so I cant reasonably consider this 
potential loss. I think its for Mr F to decide how to proceed. And I dont require Vitality to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman