DRN-2282523
The complaint
Mr F has complained about a loan he took out through a company called Gain Credit LLC, 
trading at the time as Lending Stream. 
He says Lending Stream lent to him irresponsibly because the loan he was provided with 
added to his financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Mr F took 1 such loan from Lending Stream; in January 2019. Ive 
enclosed a summary of Mr Fs borrowing, based on the information provided to us:
Loan Amount Instalments Premium Repaid
18/01/2019 £400 24 weeks £30.92 pw Outstanding
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and told Mr F that they didnt 
think it should be upheld. Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Fs complaint.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr F could repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Fs complaint.
Lending Stream told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr F, 
including assessing his income, expenditure and net disposable income. It says that based 
on what was said, this information showed that Mr F would be able to make the loan 
repayments he was committing to. 
Mr F declared his net income (after tax) as £3,800 per month and he also provided details 
about his expenditure. I think its fair to say that from a starting point, this income level would 
appear to be supportive of the borrowing Mr F was seeking. And so, I think the for this loan, 
considering what hed also said about his outgoings, Lending Stream would have concluded 
the lending was sustainable.
Given what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I also think it was 
reasonable in this case for Lending Stream to have relied on what it had been told by Mr F 
himself together with searching through some of Mr Fs financial profile, but certainly not all 
of it. I think that what was revealed by relying on these methods supported the view that the 
lending was sustainable for the loan. 
So, whilst I accept what Mr F says about his wider financial situation of that time being very 
challenging, I dont think Lending Stream would have exposed this fully in the financial 
checks it carried out or in the information Mr F himself disclosed. 
I do accept that its possible that a deeper examination of Mr Fs financial profile could have 
revealed a reason not to lend. But I dont think the situation had reached that stage. Lending 
Stream was justified, in my view, on relying on Mr Fs disclosures and financial checks at the 
more basic end of the spectrum. And none of the bullet points Ive set out above apply to his 
situation. For these reasons I dont think Lending Stream needs to pay anything back.
Mr F has raised some important issues about his health which Ive considered 
sympathetically, and I understand the point being made. However, I dont think Lending 
Stream was aware of these issues at the time of the loan; had the lending increased over 
more time, I can see such issues might have become more prominent. Nor do I think that the 
notice of default was incorrectly issued, as Mr F alleges. I can see several such notices were 
sent to him at what appears to be his correct address. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr F.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Gain Credit 
LLC to pay Mr F any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman