DRN-4142791
The complaint
Mr K complains that NewDay Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr K applied for an Argos card. NewDay approved the application and 
gave Mr K a card with an initial credit limit of £500 The credit limit was increased to £500 in 
December 2020, to £3000 in March 2021 and to £4200 in August 2021.
Mr K complained that NewDay had lent to him irresponsibly. 
NewDay didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr K.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the initial lending decision was fair but that 
the subsequent credit limit increases werent affordable for Mr K.
NewDay accepted the investigators view but Mr K remained unhappy, so Ive been asked to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ks complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that NewDay had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr K was able to sustainably repay what was being lent. 
These checks needed to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances and could take into 
account factors such as the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of 
repayments and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Account opening
Mr K declared annual income of £20,000 when he applied for the account. NewDay carried 
out a credit check and found that Mr K had unsecured debt or around £5,800, with no 
adverse information on his credit file.
Based on what Ive seen and considering the low credit limit, I think NewDay carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before opening the account. There was nothing in the 
information gathered from the checks to suggest that Mr K wasnt likely to be able to 
sustainably repay the credit or that the repayments would be unaffordable for him. Based on 
what Ive seen I think the decision to give Mr K the account with a £500 credit limit was fair.
Credit limit increases
Ive gone on to consider the credit limit increases in December 2020, March 2021 and 
August 2021.
The credit checks carried out by NewDay in December 2020 showed that Mr K had 
unsecured debt of around £12,223. This was a significant increase in his unsecured debt 
from when he applied for the account some 11 months before. A significant proportion of Mr 
Ks income was being used to repay unsecured debt. I think this shouldve prompted 
NewDay to carry out further checks to make sure the credit limit increase was affordable for 
Mr K.
I can see that Mr K was late making payments to the account in April 2020 and November 
2020, and that he had requested a payment freeze on the account between April and July 
2020. These are also factors which shouldve prompted NewDay to carry out further checks 
to make sure the credit limit increase was affordable for Mr K.
Ive looked at some bank statements provided by Mr K to see what reasonable and 
proportionate checks wouldve shown. These statements are from February 2020 as 
opposed to the months immediately prior to the credit limit increase. However, Im satisfied 
that the statements show that Mr K was relation in his overdraft and incurring significant fees 
due to exceeding the overdraft limit and having direct debits returned as unpaid. I think this 
information , together with the increase in unsecured debt, shouldve caused NewDay to 
have concerns that the credit limit increase wasnt affordable for Mr K.
Ive also considered the further credit limit increases. Mr Ks unsecured debt had increased 
further by this time and he continued to incur fees for exceeding his overdraft limit. Theres 
nothing to suggest that his financial position was improving. I dont think the further credit 
limit increases were affordable for him.
Putting things right
Mr K has had the benefit of the money that was lent to him so I think its fair that he repays 
this. But I dont think its fair that he should pay interest and charges incurred as a result of 
the credit limit increases.
NewDay Ltd should:
Refund the interest and charges Mr K has paid on balances above £500
If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the capital balance by the amount above.
If, after this, there is a capital balance outstanding, NewDay should ensure that it isnt 
subject to any historic or future interest and charges.
Alternatively, if, after this, there is a positive balance, this should be given back to Mr K 
together with 8% simple interest*
Once the balance has been cleared, NewDay should remove any adverse information on Mr 
Ks credit file as a result of the interest and charges
*HMRC may require NewDay to deduct tax from this interest. If it does, NewDay must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd must take the steps Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman