DRN-3758511
The complaint
Mrs M and the estate of Mr M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-managed their Premier 
Investment Management Service account (PIMS). They say that:
HSBC should have recommended the account was opened in joint names; or should 
have recommended it was transferred into joint names in 2008 to make use of Mr Ms 
capital gains tax allowance.
Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk had been assessed as higher, but the PIMS was 
invested with a balanced risk profile.
The model portfolio sold to them in 2003 was unsuitable because of Mr and Mrs Ms 
large number of direct holdings.
HSBC charged fees on the part of the account that it wasnt managing.
Mrs M is executor of her late husbands estate. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a 
third party. For ease of reading, Ill refer to everything as if its been said by Mrs M.
What happened
At some point prior to 1992, Mrs M opened a PIMS in her sole name managed by HSBC on 
a discretionary basis. There are no records from the time the account was opened, but it 
would appear to have been set up with the objective of providing Mrs M with a monthly 
income and with a moderate risk profile.
In 2003, HSBC moved to a model portfolio approach. It moved Mrs Ms PIMS to a model 
which reflected her objectives and risk attitude. Mrs M had substantial existing shareholdings 
which didnt fit the new model, and which would have led to a capital gains tax (CGT) 
liability if theyd been sold. So HSBC moved those shares into a feeder account which it 
said it would regularly review in order to reduce the holdings over time.
In 2008, Mr and Mrs M met with an HSBC advisor because they wanted to review the PIMS 
and consider further investment to provide additional income. They also wanted to make 
gifts to their children to mitigate inheritance tax (IHT). It was confirmed they wanted to 
continue with a medium risk approach. The advisor didnt recommend making any gifts from 
the PIMS because it would result in a CGT liability and would reduce the capital held which 
might impact the required income withdrawals in the future.
In 2012 when the annual review took place, it was confirmed Mrs M continued to withdraw 
£2,000 income each month from the PIMS and that she was happy with the balanced model, 
which reflected her objective and attitude to risk. It was noted that the feeder account still 
formed the bulk of Mrs Ms assets and that they were continuing to be sold as and when 
appropriate. 
In 2013, when the annual risk questionnaire was completed, Mr and Mrs M were assessed 
as having a higher attitude to risk. But Mrs M said she preferred to continue with a moderate 
risk approach for her PIMS. For the previous year, Mrs M had withdrawn income of £12,000 
twice a year, but shed also made capital withdrawals to make gifts to her children and to pay 
the resulting CGT liability. Mr M had recently closed his portfolio with another provider and 
HSBC recommended the PIMS was transferred into joint names to allow both their CGT 
allowances to be fully utilised. It was also agreed that Mr M would surrender a bond and add 
the proceeds to the PIMS. It was noted there remained a high number of shareholdings in 
the feeder account, and that this increased the overall risk.
In 2017 it was confirmed Mr and Mrs M had a higher attitude to risk but that they wanted to 
continue with the moderate risk approach for their PIMS. HSBC confirmed the balanced 
portfolio remained suitable for them.
In response to Mrs Ms complaint, HSBC said it wasnt clear why shed opened the account 
in her sole name, but Mr M had investments in his own name elsewhere. Mrs M, and later 
both Mr and Mrs M, confirmed they were happy to take a moderate risk approach for the 
PIMS, even though their attitude to risk had been assessed as higher. And it said Mr and 
Mrs M were aware of the risks of holding the shares in the feeder account and had agreed to 
the management fees.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld as he didnt think 
HSBC had acted inappropriately.
Mrs M didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
The model-based investment wasnt appropriate for them. They had too many existing 
shares where the capital gains were increasing faster than the CGT allowance, so it was 
impossible for HSBC to ever move all the shares into the model portfolio.
The feeder account was effectively abandoned by HSBC. It didnt ensure the feeder 
account remained diversified with the result that in 2012 one of the shareholdings was 
worth 33% of the total PIMS.
This put the overall portfolio at very high risk, so HSBCs statement that the PIMS had a 
moderate risk approach was meaningless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, much of this complaint is about things that happened many years ago and where 
full records arent available. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Account openingThe first record HSBC has for the PIMS is in 1992, but its likely the account was opened 
before then, and most probably around 1987 when Mrs M received an inheritance. I cant 
conclude with any certainty why the account was opened in Mrs Ms sole name, rather than 
in joint names with her husband. But its clear, from later evidence, that Mr M had a portfolio 
in his sole name with a third party and its likely they decided to keep some of their 
investments and savings in their own names, as well as choosing to have some joint 
investments. I dont find this unusual. I dont know if HSBC advised Mrs M to open the 
account in her sole name. But, if it did, I cant find this was inappropriate.
Failure to transfer account into joint names in 2008
Mrs M says that when she and Mr M met with an advisor in 2008, they should have been 
advised to transfer the PIMS into their joint names so that it would benefit from both of their 
CGT allowances. But its clear from the notes of a later meeting, in 2013, that Mr and Mrs M 
had been content to keep separate individual investments and that Mr M had a portfolio in 
his own name. There may have been years when he needed his full CGT allowance for his 
own portfolio, so thered have been no CGT saving had the PIMS been transferred into joint 
names in 2008. In 2013, when HSBC did recommend transferring the PIMS into joint names, 
Mr M had closed his own portfolio, so the recommendation at that stage was appropriate.
Attitude to risk
Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk would have been checked by HSBC on an annual basis. 
Mrs M says the questionnaire in 2008 was completed by the advisor and not her as the first 
question about investment experience was answered incorrectly. But I think the 
questionnaire would most likely have been completed during a discussion with Mrs M and 
she would have provided the advisor with the answers to the questions. She signed to 
confirm that she agreed with the questionnaire answers and the outcome of medium risk. 
And, from all the evidence Ive seen, I find she, and later her husband, were fully aware of, 
and comfortable with, the moderate or medium risk profile of the PIMS.
The risk questionnaires that are available from 2013 to 2016 show that Mr and Mrs M were 
assessed as having a high attitude to risk. But its clear from the review report in 2017 that 
Mr and Mrs M agreed that:
Your overall tolerance to investment risk is higher risk.
Having considered your circumstances, preferences and preferred investment period, you 
both confirmed the risk profile you want to take for the portfolio is moderate risk.
I dont find any reason why HSBC would have advised that this was unsuitable, especially in 
view of Mr and Mrs Ms advancing years.
Overall, I find Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk was appropriately assessed and that they were 
happy with the medium risk profile of the PIMS.
Change to model portfolio
In October 2003, when the account was still in the sole name of Mrs M, HSBC wrote to her 
to tell her about a change in the way her PIMS was managed. It explained it was going to 
take a model portfolio approach. This was a commercial decision and all PIMS moved 
across to the new management model. Im satisfied that Mrs M was moved across to the 
model that matched her investment objectives and risk profile and, in doing so, HSBC 
fulfilled its obligations to ensure the PIMS remained suitable for her.Im satisfied that Mrs M was given enough notice of the change which gave her the 
opportunity to discuss it with an advisor if she had any concerns about the new approach. 
And she could have chosen to close the PIMS if she didnt agree to transfer to the model 
portfolio.
Feeder account
Mrs M had a number of shareholdings which did not fit the new model. But they had 
substantial capital gains. Im satisfied that HSBC made it clear that these shares would be 
held in a feeder account and gradually sold over time, within Mrs Ms agreed CGT 
tolerance, so the proceeds could be added to and invested in the model portfolio. For a 
number of years, Mrs M gave HSBC full discretion for the sales. In other words, she was 
prepared to incur CGT if necessary. But I would still have expected HSBC to try to limit any 
chargeable gains, whilst balancing the continuing suitability of the shares held. In February 
2016, after Mrs M had incurred CGT because shed instructed for shares to be sold so she 
could gift money to her children, she said HSBC should only sell shares in future if the gains 
were within her annual allowance.
I accept what Mrs M says about the time taken for the shares in the feeder account to 
reduce. But Im satisfied that Mrs M, and later Mr M, were aware of the risks of continuing to 
hold these shares. And, whilst they wanted a model portfolio with a medium risk, their 
attitude to risk had been assessed as higher. Mrs M says HSBC shouldnt have disposed of 
total shareholdings because this led to the feeder account not being sufficiently diversified. 
HSBC has explained that it wasnt looking to balance or diversify the feeder account, but to 
sell shares that were furthest removed from the model asset allocation. I dont find that to be 
an inappropriate approach.
I think it was made reasonably clear that the feeder account would be subject to HSBCs 
management fees. I think Mrs M, and later Mr M, were fully aware of HSBCs charges and 
that the feeder account attracted management fees. And whilst HSBC may not have been 
actively managing the shares in the same way it managed the model portfolio element, it 
was reviewing them on an on-going basis with a view to selling them and adding the 
proceeds to the model portfolio. In the circumstances, I dont find the fees to be unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman