DRN-3636143
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold a Flex Plus Account (FPA) in March 2014 by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N says that Nationwide failed to tell him he could have an overdraft with a free account. 
He says that he was steered towards taking out a fee-paying FPA to get an overdraft when 
the FPA was unsuitable for him.
Nationwide says it did tell him about the fee free accounts with overdrafts it had available at 
the time. And it says it provided Mr N with information about the FPA and he chose to take it 
out based on the cost and the benefits.
Both parties agree this sale took place in a branch following a discussion. I wasnt there so I 
cant know what was said. I can only look at the evidence available today and the testimony 
of both parties.
While I dont doubt Mr Ns honest recollections, I think his memory is mistaken. I say this for 
the following reasons.
Nationwide has provided copies of its sales scripts for the FPA, and if followed these 
certainly imply that Mr N would have been made aware of the free accounts Nationwide 
offered with overdrafts as well as the FPA.
Mr N says that he was sold the FPA by an experienced member of the branch team. So, I 
think its more likely than not that Nationwides representative was fully aware of the cost and 
benefits of all the current accounts it had available and would have given him correct 
information.
Mr N was an experienced user of financial products having held a mortgage and a loan at 
the time. And fee free accounts with overdrafts were widely available and advertised by 
Nationwide, and other banks and financial institutions before and after this sale. 
So, I think its more likely than not that if Nationwide had not offered him a fee free account 
with an overdraft, he would have queried this and looked for and found what he wanted 
elsewhere.
Both parties agree that this no advice was given, or recommendation made in this sale. So, 
Nationwide was only required to provide Mr N with enough information to make an informed 
decision about the FPA.
And I think it did.
I say this because Mr N had a substantial discussion with an experienced member of staff 
about the FPA; Nationwide has provided evidence of the welcome pack of information it says 
he received at the time; and Mr N went on to use the car breakdown cover benefit.
So, I think its more likely than not that Nationwide didnt do anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman