DRN-2256866
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc (T/A Barclaycard) inappropriately invited 
them to apply for a new credit card. Theyre also unhappy about how it dealt with their credit 
card applications.
What happened
In early 2019 Mrs and Mr A received marketing information from Barclaycard, which invited 
them to apply for a credit card with an interest free period of 20 months. Mrs and Mr A 
wanted to take advantage of this offer as they intended to use the credit card to consolidate 
around £15000 of existing credit and store card debt.  
Mrs and Mr A completed separate application forms in May 2019 and returned them to 
Barclaycard. But they said they never received a response. Mrs and Mr A said, while they 
wrote to Barclaycard on several occasions thereafter to chase the outcome of their 
application, their correspondence was ignored. So, they complained as they felt theyd 
missed out on the opportunity to transfer and consolidate their debt.
Mrs and Mr A said they didnt receive a response to their complaint. So, on 10 January 2020, 
they referred it to our service. As Mrs and Mr A hadnt received a final response to their 
complaint from Barclaycard, our investigator wrote to it in order to invite its response.
On 1 April 2020 Barclaycard issued its final response to this complaint. It explained in its 
correspondence that it hadnt been able to trace any incoming communication from Mrs and 
Mr A. So, it said this is why it hadnt responded to their complaint. It also stated it hadnt 
evidenced a banking error in how Mrs and Mr A had been dealt with. It therefore didnt 
uphold their complaint.
When our investigator assessed Mrs and Mr As complaint they didnt recommend upholding 
it. They didnt think the marketing material Barclaycard had sent Mrs and Mr A offered a 
guarantee that it would approve their credit card applications. They also didnt think 
Barclaycard had acted unfairly in declining Mr As application for a credit card. And they 
thought its decision to approve Mrs A a credit card with a low credit limit was something our 
service couldnt interfere with. But Mrs and Mr A disagreed with our investigators view of 
their complaint. So, the matters been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mrs and Mr A have gone to 
some trouble to provide our service with some detailed submissions. I want to assure them 
that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope theyll understand if I dont address every 
comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider to be key 
to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs and Mr A experienced. Its clear they wanted to 
use their new credit cards to consolidate their existing debt in order to make their financial 
position more affordable. And I understand they feel very strongly about the issues raised in 
their complaint. But the issue here is whether Barclaycard made a mistake, or treated Mrs 
and Mr A unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.
Barclaycard said it approved Mrs As application and opened her account on 13 June 2019. 
It said it gave her a credit limit of £300, which was the maximum it felt able to lend her. Ive 
seen evidence of that lending decision and I understand that Mrs As card hasnt been 
activated yet.
I can understand how frustrating it must have been for Mrs A to be given a much lower credit 
limit than she wanted. But, in offering a modest credit limit, I think Barclaycard demonstrated 
that it assessed the affordability of credit to ensure that Mrs A could afford to repay what she 
wanted to borrow. And, while it didnt offer her a higher credit limit, Im persuaded it took that 
decision as part of its duty to lend responsibly, which isnt something I can fairly criticise.
Ive seen records from Barclaycard that shows it received Mr As application form on 13 June 
2019.Those records show Barclaycard took a decision not to open a new account for Mr As 
on 3 July 2019. 
Barclaycard said it declined Mr As credit card application as it was unclear whether he was 
retired or unemployed from his application form. It also said he already held credit cards with 
Barclaycard and its terms and conditions prevent customers from holding more than one 
Barclaycard accounts at a time.
I can appreciate that Mr A is frustrated Barclaycard didnt approve his credit card application. 
But its up to Barclaycard to decide who to lend to. Thats a business decision for it to make. 
And its not for our service to tell Barclaycard that it should have approved Mr As 
application. I say this because lending and account approval decisions arent something our 
service would interfere with.
Its clear that Mrs and Mr A are unhappy that Barclaycard sent them marketing material 
inviting them to apply for a new credit card. But I dont think it would be fair to say this 
created a legitimate expectation that their application would be approved. I say this because 
the marketing material Mrs and Mr A received didnt provide a guarantee that their 
application would be accepted. And, as they both hold a number of credit cards, I think they 
ought to have known that all applications for credit are subject to affordability checks.
Mrs and Mr A said Barclaycard failed to respond to their credit card applications. But Ive 
seen copies of correspondence addressed to Mrs A confirming that her credit card had been 
approved and what credit limit shed been given. 
Having carefully checked the address on the correspondence Barclaycard said it sent Mrs A 
I can see it matches the address our service has recorded for her. Ive no reason to doubt 
that Barclaycard generated and posted the letters Ive seen. 
Barclaycard hasnt been able to show our service copies of the letter it sent Mr A to inform 
him it had declined his application. It said this is because this letter is stored on its archive 
system due to the passage of time. Its also stated its standard practice is to notify all 
applicants if their application has been declined. And I think its likely that Barclaycard would 
have written to Mr A confirming the outcome of his application. It had no reason not to.I havent seen any evidence showing that the correspondence Barclaycard posted to Mrs 
and Mr A was returned to it undelivered. I dont doubt what Mrs and Mr A say about not 
receiving the letters they were sent. But this is perhaps due to issues with the post where 
they live. While its very unfortunate when things get lost in the post, it would be unfair for me 
to hold Barclaycard responsible for that. Its not something over which it has any control.
Its clear from what Mrs and Mr A told our investigator that they arent happy with how 
Barclaycard dealt with their complaint. But, as our investigator has already explained, our 
service doesnt have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint 
handling because its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. 
So, even if I did think Barclaycard hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to 
uphold that element of Mrs and Mr As concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the 
law. So, I wont comment any further on this issue.
Ive considered all the points Mrs and Mr A have made and I appreciate the reasons why 
they brought their complaint to our service. But I think Barclaycard has acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances of this complaint. So, Im not going to ask it to do 
anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman