DRN-4516882
The complaint
M has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to avoid its Business
Package insurance policy and refuse to pay its claim under it because of this.
M is represented by Miss B, who is a director.
What happened
Miss B took out a policy to cover M in April 2020 through an insurance broker, who Ill refer
to as D. She renewed the policy in April 2021 and 2022. She made a claim in October
2022. A loss adjuster was appointed by UKI and discovered Miss B had a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) against her name from 2018. He also discovered M had one against its 
name from 2020.
UKIs underwriters decided Miss B should have disclosed the CCJs when she took out the
policy. It decided to void her policy ab initio, although it didnt actually make it clear which
policy it was voiding, bearing in mind M had taken out three policies with UKI by this point.
Miss B complained on behalf of M with the help of D. D argued that  based on its
experience - UKI would still have offered the policy if Miss B had disclosed the CCJs. It also
explained Miss B was not aware of the CCJ in 2018 when she took out the policy for M and
on both occasions she renewed it.
UKI wouldnt alter its position, so Miss B asked us to consider Ms complaint. One of our
investigators did this. He explained that he was satisfied Miss B on behalf of M breached her
duty to make a fair presentation by not disclosing the CCJs. And he was also satisfied UKI
wouldnt have insured M if Miss B had disclosed the CCJs, which meant it was entitled to
avoid Ms policy and decline its claim.
Miss B asked for an ombudsmans decision and the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant legislation in this case is The Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). This required
Miss B on behalf of M to make a fair presentation of the risk she was asking UKI to insure
when she took out the policy in 2020 and when she took out further policies in 2021 and
2022. In doing so, Miss B needed to disclose every material circumstance which she knew
about or ought to have known about. The Act also states that an insured ought to know what
should reasonably have been revealed by a reasonable search of information available to
them.
If the insured, in this case M, fails to make a fair presentation of the risk the Act makes it
clear that the insurer needs to decide whether the breach is a qualifying breach. It is a
qualifying breach if, but for the breach of the insureds duty to make a fair presentation, the
insurer would not have entered into the contract of insurance at all, or would have done so
only on different terms. If the insurer decides it is a qualifying breach it then needs to decide
whether it is deliberate or reckless or neither deliberate or reckless. If it decides it is neither
deliberate or reckless it is only entitled to avoid the insureds policy if it can show it would not
have entered into the contract on any terms but for the breach.
Ive reviewed what UKI said in its letter advising Ms broker it had decided to avoid Ms
policy. And I do not consider this letter is at all clear. It states that Ms policy will be treated
as if it never existed. But at this point M had had three policies with UKI. One starting in
2020, one starting in 2021 and one starting in 2022. However, Ive assumed UKI is actually
referring to voiding all three policies, as it decided Ms failure to make a fair presentation with
regards to the CCJs Miss B and M had against their names was neither deliberate nor
reckless. And it seems to have refunded the premium for all three policies.
In my opinion, this was not the way to approach the matter. What UKI should have done was
considered whether Miss B on behalf of M had failed to make a fair presentation when she
took out each policy. And to avoid considering Ms claim it needed to demonstrate it would
not have offered the policy on any terms in April 2022 if Miss B had disclosed one or both of
the CCJs.
In view of this, Ive considered  first of all  whether Miss B failed to make a fair
presentation when she took out each of the policies. In doing this Ive considered the
questions she was asked or should have been asked by D on behalf of UKI. This is because
I consider it good industry practice for an insurer to ask clear questions about matters it
considers to be material to its acceptance of a risk.
The Statements of Facts Ive seen for 2020 and 2022 contain the following question which it
seems Miss B answered as no. And I am assuming the same question appeared on the
Statement of Fact in 2021, although I have not seen a copy of this.
Has any proposer, director or partner of the Trade or Business or its Subsidiary Companies
ever, either personally or in any business capacity been the owner or director of, or partner
in, any business, company or partnership had a county court judgement awarded against
them?
In my opinion, this is a poorly worded question and quite difficult to follow. But I do think it
makes it clear enough that Miss B needed to answer it yes if she was aware of any CCJs
against her personally or against M.
In view of this, I think Miss B did need to answer it yes and disclose the CCJ against M
when she took out all three policies. But I do not think she needed to disclose the CCJ
against her personally. I say this because she clearly knew about the CCJ against M when
taking out all three policies. And it seems she either forgot to mention it or told D and it
forgot. But Im satisfied she did not know about the CCJ against her personally and I do not
think it is right to say she ought to have known about it. I say this because when taking out a
commercial policy, I wouldnt expect a director to do a personal credit check on themselves,
unless they had some reason to think they might have something adverse on their credit
history. And I cant see Miss B would have thought she did, based on whats shes said
about how the personal CCJ against her came about.
This means I think Miss B  on behalf of M  did fail to make a fair presentation of the risk to
UKI when taking out all three policies with M because she or D didnt disclose the CCJ
against M.
In view of this, Ive considered whether UKI has done enough to show these breaches ofMiss Bs duty on behalf of M were qualifying ones.
UKI has only provided the underwriting guide its underwriters were using in 2017, which it
has said was in use in 2020 and at renewal. Although it hasnt said whether it means both
renewals. But, I have assumed it was in use when Miss B took out all three policies for M.
Ive noted that the guidance gave a great deal of leeway to the individual underwriter in
deciding whether to accept a risk where the insured or one of its directors had CCJs against
their name. And I am slightly concerned by a comment in UKIs file, which suggests that it
may have accepted such risks previously, but there wouldnt have been a £25,000 claim
outstanding. I say this because the fact there is a claim outstanding should not be a
consideration at all when an insurer is deciding whether an insureds breach of their duty to
make a fair presentation is a qualifying one and what action to take because of it.
However, Ive also noted that UKIs underwriters are confident they would have carried out
further credit checks on M and Miss B if shed have declared one or both the CCJs and
declined the policy. Although, I think UKI was referring to the fact it would have declined the
policy in 2020. So it hasnt really commented on what it would have done in 2021 and 2022.
But I am not persuaded by the evidence UKI has provided that its underwriters would have
decided not to provide a policy for M in any of these years. Or that it would have provided
one on different terms. I say this because the underwriting guide refers only to risks
demonstrating a combination of multiple CCJs and other factors as being unacceptable. It
also refers to the consideration of mitigating circumstances and the amount of the CCJs
compared to the premium. And all of this suggests to me that a risk like the one M presented
with two CCJs, with one being a personal one, and none of the other factors that I can see
applying, would have been acceptable to UKI on normal terms. D has suggested it has
previous risks for what might be best described as business with a poorer financial
background accepted and it has provided a couple of examples. And all of this is why I am
not persuaded that UKI wouldnt have offered the policies at all to M. And, as things stand I
think it would have offered them on normal terms.
This means I do not consider UKIs decision to avoid Ms policy in 2022 or either of its
previous policies, assuming this is what it intended to do, was reasonable. And I consider the
fair and reasonable outcome to Ms complaint is for UKI to reinstate all three policies and
make sure its records and any external databases reflect this. It must then consider Ms
claim in accordance with the terms of the policy it took out in 2022.
Ive considered the inconvenience of having three policies wrongly avoided for M. And I think
it was inconvenient. But to some extent how inconvenient depends on whether UKI would
have settled its claim. And I dont know if it would have done at this stage. Also, I am mindful
of the fact that Miss B or D on her behalf did fail to make a fair presentation of the risk to UKI
for all three policies. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to award M any
compensation for inconvenience. And I cant award compensation to Miss B personally for
the worry of Ms policies being avoided.
I gave both parties until 14 December 2023 to provide any further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. And neither party has provided further comments or 
evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion on the fair and 
reasonable outcome of Ms complaint to the one I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Ms complaint 
about U K Insurance Limited and make it reinstate all three of its policies and consider Ms 
claim under the policy it took out in 2022. It must also make sure its records and external 
databases do not show any of them as avoided.
My final decision
I uphold Ms complaint and order UK Insurance Limited to do what Ive set out above in the 
Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman