DRN-2596094
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) settled his claim on his home insurance.
All references to RSA in this decision include the actions of its agents. 
What happened
Mr J has home insurance that is underwritten by RSA. He made a claim after his son 
accidentally damaged their computer. RSA sent a technician to inspect the damage and they 
declared the machine beyond economical repair. 
RSA said that as it wasnt able to repair it, a replacement of a similar specification would be 
provided. It said the brand that made his previous computer no longer make computers, so it 
would provide a similar option from another brand. 
When RSA confirmed the make and model of the computer it would provide, Mr J wasnt 
happy. He said it didnt have an integrated DVD player or a wireless mouse. He also said he 
had purchased his computer as it was top of the range at the time. And he didnt feel the one 
offered to replace it was of the same standard. He also said he wasnt happy with the 
customer service that had been provided by RSAs agent. He said they had initially got the 
model of his computer wrong and wouldnt believe him when he corrected it. He made a 
complaint.
RSA upheld Mr Js complaint in relation to the customer service he had received. It offered 
£50 to make up for this. However it said it was satisfied that the computer offered as a 
replacement was a slightly better specification than Mr Js original one. And an external DVD 
drive and mouse had been offered as an addition to make up for the features it lacked.
Mr J wasnt happy with this. He said he didnt agree the computer offered was a better 
specification. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she was satisfied that 
the computer RSA had offered was of a higher specification than Mr Js old one, so she 
thought that was fair and inline with the policy. Further, she confirmed that RSA had offered 
a cash settlement as an alternative, at the amount the replacement would cost. And she 
thought this was fair. She also thought £50 was enough to make up for the poor service Mr J 
had received. 
Mr J didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js claim has been accepted under the accidental damage section of the policy. It says in 
the policy:
1 a Where the damage can be economically repaired we will pay the cost of repair.
b. Where the damage cannot be economically repaired and the damaged or lost item can be 
replaced, we will replace it. If a replacement is not available we will replace it with an item of 
similar quality.
So where an item cant be repaired, and an exact replacement cant be sourced, RSA will 
provide a similar replacement.
Mr J doesnt feel the replacement offered is similar. He says there are a number of features 
that his original computer had that the new one doesnt.
Ive considered what Mr J has said, but I dont think RSA has acted unfairly. The policy 
requires RSA to replace the item with a similar replacement. This doesnt guarantee that 
the replacement will have all the features of the previous one. However at this service, we 
would expect the replacement to be as close to the old one as possible, and to include the 
same or similar features.
Ive looked at the specification of the replacement offered. I can see there are many features 
that are better or additional to those on Mr Js original computer. It has a larger screen, 
higher resolution and a higher processing speed. However I note there are three features 
that Mr Js computer had that the replacement didnt. And that includes the internal DVD 
drive. 
As there are many computers available to buy, all with very different specifications, it would 
always be difficult to find one that matches Mr Js exactly. But Im satisfied that the 
replacement offered is a slightly better specification than Mr Js. And RSA has offered an 
external DVD drive to make up for this missing feature. So I think it would reasonably meet 
the definition of an item of similar quality as stated in the policy. 
Mr J has explained that he chooses to spend more money on important items, as he likes to 
have things that are top of the range and feels they are better value for money. While I 
sympathise with Mr Js position, I have to consider the cover that is provided by the policy. 
And Mr Js policy will provide a replacement item that is similar to the old one. So even 
though the computer may have been one of the best available at the time he bought it, the 
same specification may not be considered top of the range now, as technology has 
improved and new features have become available. 
However RSA has offered to pay Mr J a cash settlement rather than providing the 
replacement. This would allow Mr J to choose a computer that he considers better value and 
more suited to his needs. So I think this is a fair offer.
For these reasons I am satisfied that RSA has acted fairly when settling Mr Js claim. So I 
wont ask it to do anything differently. 
Finally, I can see that Mr J received poor customer service from RSAs agent that meant he 
had to contact them numerous times before it was accepted that they had got the model of 
his computer wrong. I agree this would have been inconvenient for Mr J. RSA has offered 
£50 compensation and I think thats enough to make up for this inconvenience.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman