DRN-3804544
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy Sainsbury's Bank Plc defaulted his loan account.
What happened
Mr U took out a £20,000 loan with a 60-month term in November 2017. The monthly 
repayment was £413.55. He paid by direct debit until April 2018. He then missed payments, 
or made payments lower than the contractual amount and built up arrears. He reinstated his 
direct debit in August 2018 but did not clear the arrears. He then did not make any payments 
from February 2019 to March 2020. The account was settled in October 2021.
Sainsburys Bank says it sent Mr U a Notice of Arrears on 18 June 2018 and a Notice of 
Default Sum on 6 July 2018. A Default Notice was sent on 24 September 2018 and a further 
Notice of Arrears on 4 December 2018. Mr U cancelled his direct debit in February 2019.The 
account was defaulted on 17 April 2019 and the debt was sold to a third party on 10 March 
2020.    
Mr U says he only discovered the default in mid-2022 when he checked his credit file. He 
says he told Sainsburys Bank he was having financial difficulties in March 2019. He did not 
receive any correspondence from the bank prior to the loan defaulting.
Mr U says the default has affected his health, mentally and emotionally, and it is restricting 
his access to credit. He wants the default to be removed from his credit file. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Us complaint. He said the bank had fairly defaulted       
Mr Us loan account.
Mr U disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He felt the 
mitigating factors had not been considered: he had emailed the bank about his financial 
situation in March 2019, when he had to focus on his priority bills. And he had not received 
the notices from the bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Us complaint. Ill explain why.
From the evidence Sainsburys bank submitted I am satisfied that it followed the industry 
guidelines for defaulting accounts. These are set out by the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) and say that once it becomes clear an accountholder is going to have problems 
repaying their debt a default notice can be issued and this will typically be once at least three 
months of arrears and missed payments are evident. Mr U said he did not receive any of the 
correspondence, but it was all sent to the address the bank held for Mr U so I cannot fairly 
hold the bank liable for the non-receipt. 
I can see Mr U spoke to the bank and asked for breathing space in May 2018 as he had lost 
his job. This was given and Mr U then let the bank know he had found 6 months work and 
would be paid in August 2018. A new financial assessment was done but this showed Mr U 
would be unable to meet the loan repayments. Mr U got back in touch to say he was now in 
full time employment and could bring his account up to date. He did reinstate the direct debit 
in August 2018, but the arrears were not cleared. Mr U asked that the default be delayed 
but, in the circumstances, I think the bank made a fair and reasonable decision to proceed.
Mr U said that he emailed the bank in March 2019 and that has not been considered. The 
bank says it did not receive this email, but that aside I dont think it would have been a 
reason for it not to proceed with registering the default given Mr Us payment history and the 
previous discussions between the parties as referenced above. By that time, I think it was 
clear Mr U could not repay the debt and so Sainsburys Bank needed to register a default 
and report that to the credit reference agencies. I am sorry Mr Us circumstances changed 
and that this led to financial difficulties but I have not found grounds to instruct the bank (or 
the current debt owner) to remove the default from his credit file.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman