DRN-2931152
The complaint
Miss T complains about TSB Bank plc (TSB) and its handling of her direct debits for her 
loans. She thinks that she was wrongly advised to cancel her direct debits and that this has 
caused her to fall into arrears and be pursued by debt collection agencies. She wants her 
credit score to be amended and compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Miss T held two loans with TSB. One was for around £5000 and started in November 2015, 
the other was for £7000 and started in July 2017. These loans had interest rates of 26.48% 
and 23.29% APR respectively and were due to last for 36 and 48 months. 
Miss T had monthly repayments to make of £201 and £225 for these loans. 
In summer 2018, Miss T found herself unable to make her repayment. She had previously 
taken repayment holidays on both loans within the past 12 months, so this option was not 
open to her. 
When an unexpected cost hit, Miss T cancelled her direct debit in order to be able to pay 
that cost.
In July 2018, Miss T contacted TSB and asked that her direct debits be re-instated for the 
following month. This was done and the repayments started again from August. 
Repayments were taken from Miss T in August and September 2018 but stopped after this. 
Miss T later attended a branch and wished to refinance. She was told that she was unable 
to, because she had arrears on her loans. This surprised Miss T as she had understood that 
she had been advised to cancel her direct debits, and that this would be of no detriment to 
her.
The loan accounts were then closed in February 2019, and the debts sent to recovery. 
Miss T made a complaint to TSB. She felt that she had been misled by TSB staff and had 
understood that she was on a repayment holiday.
TSB sent its final response in March 2019, not upholding the complaint. 
Miss T then referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not uphold Miss Ts complaint. Our 
investigator set out the history to communications and was satisfied that there was no 
evidence that Miss T had been advised to stop making repayments on her loans. 
Miss T did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ts upset at how these loans have progressed and the situation she has 
found herself in. However, in relation to the current complaint, I agree with the investigator. 
I have reviewed the documentary evidence available and have listed to the calls provided 
and I agree that it was made clear to Miss T, or her representative, that missed repayments 
would be referred to the collections/recoveries department. There was discussion of 
repayment holidays, and that these were not available to Miss T as she had recently used 
repayment holidays on these loans. I have seen no evidence of Miss T being advised to stop 
making her repayments on her loans.
On that basis, I do not uphold Miss Ts current complaint. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing to Miss T. 
When making this decision, it appeared that Miss Ts loan repayments were large, and were 
potentially disproportionate to Miss Ts income at the times of the loans. It also appeared 
that the rates of interest were quite high.
I wanted to put Miss Ts concerns in the right context of her struggling to meet her loan 
repayments. To help me do so I asked TSB for more information about what checks it did 
when giving Miss T the loans. 
The responses to my queries were limited. This wasnt very helpful. 
But I need to be clear I have not made any findings about the initial lending decisions made 
by TSB, nor whether these were responsible, as this falls outside of the complaint Miss T 
brought to us. 
Miss T may wish to take this forward. 
Our investigator will be happy to discuss next steps if Miss T wants to contact them.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint and do not ask TSB Bank 
plc to do anything further in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman