DRN-4005886
The complaint
Miss F and Mr M complain that Vitality Life Limited declined claims made by Miss F on their 
policies.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. In summary Miss F and Mr M took out two policies  a decreasing life cover plan 
and a level term assurance plan through a financial adviser in November 2020. Both plans 
had serious illness cover. 
In June 2021 Miss F claimed on the policies following a diagnosis of a serious illness. Vitality 
declined the claims. It said that Miss F hadnt answered the questions it asked at the 
application stage correctly. It said that had she done so it would not have offered her cover. 
Unhappy Miss F and Mr M referred their complaint here.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. Miss F and Mr M appealed. Miss F said:
Multiple insurance companies would insure someone under normal terms if they 
suffered with migraines.
Her migraines had no particular pattern and were not frequent enough to grumble 
about. 
Although she had been advised to attend an MRI it didnt go ahead and she thought 
that the investigation in to the issue had closed.
The diagnosis of multiple sclerosis has nothing to do with migraines  so it is 
confusing why Vitality say the symptoms should have been disclosed.
Her financial adviser told her she didnt need to disclose migraines unless they were 
frequent and debilitating.
She would have been happy for Vitality to request medical records  but this wasnt 
done.
She was happy with the documents she received say that she had never 
experienced numbness and other symptoms as her GP had confirmed they were 
symptoms of migraine and contraception.
She doesnt feel that there was any misrepresentation on her part and doesnt 
believe she was being careless. She disclosed everything that she was advised to.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I do recognise how disappointed 
Miss F and Mr M will be. I will explain my reasons.
Firstly though, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully 
reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Vitality declined the claims as it said that Miss F had failed to take reasonable care when 
answering the following questions on the application form:
Health - Last 5 years
Numbness, tremor, tingling, pins and needles, dizziness, facial pain or visual disturbance 
including blurred or double vision?
Recent and Current Health
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, within the last 2 years have 
you had any medical condition, illness or injury that you have received treatment for, over a 
continuous period of 2 weeks or more?
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, within the last 2 years have 
you been advised to have or undergone any investigation such as blood tests, scans or 
biopsies? If so, for what condition (or suspected condition)? 
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, do you have any impairment 
or medical complaints that you intend seeking medical advice for, or are you currently 
awaiting the results of any investigations? 
Miss F answered no to these questions. Vitality has shown that had the questions been 
answered correctly it would not have offered Miss F and Mr M the policies.Ive reviewed the medical evidence and like our investigator Im not going to repeat all the 
sensitive details which arent in dispute. These include that Miss F had consulted for 
migraines, blurred vision and numbness of limbs. Miss F had been referred for an MRI scan. 
I appreciate that the scan didnt take place, but the relevant question asks whether you were 
advised to haveany investigation, which she had been. 
I understand too that Miss F had suffered with migraines for many years but they didnt stop 
her from working and exercising as normal. Nevertheless its clear from the medical records 
that by May 2019 the migraines were getting more frequent and severe and she had been 
diagnosed with nystagmus. 
Miss F says she didnt mention her blurred vision as its usually a symptom of her menstrual 
cycle. But the question didnt ask about the cause, so I cant say that Vitality was wrong to 
find it should have been answered affirmatively. 
Im satisfied that the questions were clear and in the light of the medical evidence I dont find 
that Vitality have treated Miss F unfairly by concluding that she had answered the questions 
incorrectly. I do note that the policy was taken out through a financial adviser, but here Im 
looking only at the actions of Vitality.
Likewise Im satisfied that that the misrepresentation was qualifying  that is it did make a 
difference to the underwriting of the policies. I accept that the ultimate diagnosis Miss F 
received may not have been related to her migraines. But Vitality has shown that had its 
underwriters been aware of the referrals for tests and investigations they would have 
postponed cover until there was a confirmed underlying cause for Miss Fs symptoms of 
numbness and loss of control of her limbs. 
Miss F has said that other insurers would have offered her cover if they suffered with 
migraines. But here Im only considering the actions of Vitality in response to the answers 
Miss F gave about her health. 
I understand that Miss F was happy with the documentation she was sent when the policies 
were taken out  but this reflected the answers she had given. Vitality was entitled to rely on 
the answers Miss F gave and wasnt obliged to seek verification from her GP.
Vitality said that the misrepresentation was careless and has refunded the premiums paid. I 
think that is fair and is in accordance with the actions that it can take under CIDRA.
In all the circumstances I dont find that Vitality treated Miss F and Mr M unfairly, contrary to 
their policy terms or to law.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons given.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman