DRN-4305861
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs B had a critical illness policy, underwritten by L&G. The policy expired in June 2022. In 
July 2022, Mrs B had a screening for breast cancer. She made a claim to L&G but it turned 
the claim down on the basis that the policy had already expired when the diagnosis was 
made. 
Mrs B complained but L&G maintained its decision so she referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think L&G had done anything wrong or 
unfairly declined the claim. Mrs B disagreed and in summary, has made the following 
comments:
She couldnt make the initial screening. 
Her consultant has confirmed it was likely she had the disease before the policy 
expired.
She doesnt think she has been treated fairly. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The policy confirms the period of cover starts on the policy start date and ends on the policy 
expiry date. It says:
The amount of cover is paid if, during the period of cover, the life assuredis 
diagnosed with a critical illness.
So this means that Mrs B had to have had her diagnosis whilst the policy was active. 
Based on the timeline provided by both sides, Mrs B didnt receive her diagnosis whilst the 
policy was active. But Mrs B says her claim should be paid as she had tried to book a 
screening appointment in April 2022. She wasnt able to have her screening until July 2022, 
as the earlier appointments werent suitable for her. 
After L&G declined her claim, Mrs B provided a letter from her consultant who confirmed it 
was likely that her disease was present whilst the policy was active. 
L&G says it can only consider a claim after the policy has expired if it can be shown that the 
policy holder was symptomatic before the expiry of the policy or there were known problems 
before the policy ended. Mrs B wasnt symptomatic during the period of cover. And the letter 
from the consultant gives an opinion on when the cancer would have been present but as it 
wasnt diagnosed during the active policy period, I cant say Mrs B meets the policy terms.
Having considered everything Mrs B has said, I can understand why she feels aggrieved. 
But in order to ask L&G to pay the claim, I have to be satisfied that Mrs Bs claim meets the 
policy terms. Mrs B did not have an active policy when she received her diagnosis. And as 
she had no symptoms during the period of cover, I dont think L&G unfairly declined the 
claim. So I cant fairly ask it to pay the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman