DRN-4069367
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants further compensation for her trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mrs M was involved in an incident and made a claim on her policy. There were delays in 
Aviva collecting and repairing her car. And Mrs M had to chase this, and she didnt receive 
calls back. Aviva agreed that it hadnt proactively managed the claim and it paid Mrs M £250 
compensation for her trouble and upset. But Mrs M was unhappy that she had been given an 
unsuitable manual courtesy car and that she was given inconsistent information by Aviva. 
She was also unhappy that her premium had increased.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Avivas 
compensation for the delays and poor communication had been fair and reasonable. She 
thought Mrs M hadnt told Aviva that she needed an automatic car for health reasons until 
the complaint stage. She thought Mrs M hadnt yet given Aviva a chance to respond to her 
other concerns, so she couldnt consider them yet. 
Mrs M replied that Aviva had kept her car for eleven weeks for a two day repair. Mrs M 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has raised a number of further concerns about how Aviva has handled her claim. Our 
Investigator has explained that we cant consider these until Aviva has had an opportunity to 
investigate them and provide its response. So I cant consider here Mrs Ms complaints 
about her premium increasing at renewal and Aviva giving her inconsistent information about 
the repairs being completed. 
Mrs M also complained that Aviva gave her a manual car when an automatic car would have 
better suited her health needs. But from what I can see, Mrs M didnt explain this to Aviva 
until she made her complaint about its service. So, as it wasnt aware of her needs, I cant 
hold it responsible for not meeting them.
Mrs M thought her repairs were a two day job and she said Aviva took eleven weeks to 
complete them. I think Mrs M could reasonably expect her repairs to be completed promptly. 
I can see that the initial difficulties were about recovering Mrs Ms car from the police 
storage. Mrs M said it took six weeks for Aviva to locate a garage that would take on the 
work. She said only minor repairs were needed. 
I can see that Aviva tried four different repairers before it located one that would undertake 
the repairs. It took 31 days from the date the police released the car until a garage could 
collect it for repairs. The car was then assessed, and repairs were authorised within four 
days, which I think is reasonable. 
During this time, Mrs M contacted Aviva for updates and she didnt receive calls back. Aviva 
agreed that it hadnt been proactive in ensuring that the car was repaired and keeping Mrs M 
informed. I can understand that this must have been frustrating and stressful for her. 
Mrs M said there were then delays of three weeks whilst the garage waited for parts for the 
car locks. But I cant reasonably hold Aviva responsible for this as the parts had been 
ordered and the supply of parts is outside its control. 
Aviva then responded to Mrs Ms complaint and paid her £250 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by its delays. But Mrs M said it was a further two weeks before her 
car was returned to her with all the repairs completed. 
I can see that during this time, the car was taken to a dealers garage to have the locks 
repaired. This took five days. The alloys had yet to repaired and I think this could have been 
done earlier. So Mrs M had to wait a further week for this to be done. And I think with better 
planning, this delay could have been avoided. 
Aviva paid Mrs M £250 compensation for the delays in the claim, for the lack of calls back, 
and for not proactively managing the repairs. Mrs M was kept mobile in this time, albeit in a 
car that didnt fully meet her needs. Im satisfied that this compensation is in keeping with our 
published guidance for the impact this had over this period of time. So I dont require Aviva 
to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman