DRN-2954096
The complaint
Mrs K complains that By Miles Ltd cancelled her motor insurance policy. She wants it to 
reinstate the policy and remove records of the cancellation. And she wants compensation for 
her trouble and upset and increased premiums due to the cancellation. Mrs K is represented 
in this matter by her husband, Mr W, a named driver on her policy. 
What happened
Mrs K and Mr W had two policies with By Miles. Ill refer to them as policy 1 and policy 2. 
Both policies required Mrs K to fit a mileage tracker device to her car. By Miles said it sent 
this to Mrs K for policy 1 and it was activated. Mrs K then changed her car several times. By 
Miles later told Mrs K that the tracker wasnt now working, and it thought it may not have 
been transferred to the replacement cars. Mrs K said she had never received a tracker for 
this policy and declined to pay for a replacement. By Miles then cancelled her policy after 
providing notification. Mrs K thought this was racist and unfair. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought By Miles 
had provided evidence that the tracker had been sent to Mrs K and activated. He thought By 
Miles had cancelled the policy in keeping with its terms and conditions. He thought it had 
correctly recorded the cancellation on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database. He couldnt see evidence that By Miles had been racist or discriminatory towards 
Mrs K. 
Mr W replied that the investigator had looked at the wrong policy. He said the complaint 
should have been in regard to the car covered by policy 2.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked that Mrs Ks complaint was against the correct policy. By Miles has provided 
screenshots of its system to show that policy 2, which was for a car with Mrs Ks 
personalised number plate, ran until the policy lapsed. Mrs K sent By Miles an email stating 
that she had received the tracker for this car. So policy 2 wasnt cancelled by By Miles. 
Policy 1, however, was cancelled before the policy was due to end. Mrs K sent emails to By 
Miles about the tracker for the last car on this policy. The registration for the last car on this 
policy is on the cancellation notice. So Im satisfied that the complaint has addressed the 
correct policy. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that the policy required Mrs K to install the tracker and keep it running to record her 
mileage. By Miles then charged her a premium based on this mileage. The policy also states 
that if the tracker isnt installed, then the policy may be cancelled. 
By Miles said it sent the tracker by recorded delivery and it was collected from Mrs Ks local 
post office. Mrs K disagrees with this. And I can see that By Miles did initially send Mrs K the 
wrong tracking reference, which it corrected. I can see from file screenshots that the tracker 
was activated and then recorded information for the car on the policy at that time. So Im 
satisfied that By Miles did send Mrs K the tracker. 
I understand that Mrs K doesnt recall this. But as she did receive a tracker for the other 
policy shortly afterwards, I think she would have contacted By Miles if she hadnt received 
the device for policy 1.
Mrs K then changed her car on the policy several times. Each time she changed the car, By 
Miles sent her instructions to change over the device to the new car. From what Ive seen, 
Mrs K swapped the tracker for the first change of car, but not thereafter. So I think she 
reasonably understood the need to transfer the tracker to the new car on the policy and that 
she wouldnt be provided with a new tracker each time. But then the tracker wasnt activated 
for the third or fourth cars on the policy. 
By Miles then contacted Mrs K to tell her that the tracker wasnt working and offered for her 
to buy a new one for £50. But Mrs K declined this. So By Miles issued notification of 
cancellation due to the breach of policy terms and it then cancelled the policy and recorded 
this on CUE. I think By Miles cancelled the policy fairly and reasonably and in keeping with 
the policy terms and conditions. As it didnt do anything wrong in this, I dont require it to pay 
Mrs K and Mr W any compensation. 
Mrs K said By Miles had discriminated against her because of her race. But Ive seen no 
evidence to show this. Ive read the email exchanges and I think By Miles communicated 
with Mrs K in a friendly and professional manner. 
It was eight months between the tracker last being used and By Miles contacting Mrs K 
about this. By Miles was entitled to charge Mrs K a fee to cover the missing mileage. But it 
waived this as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is further evidence that By Miles didnt treat 
Mrs K differently because of her race. 
Also, Mrs K had another policy with By Miles that wasnt cancelled at the same time. So I 
cant say that By Miles discriminated against Mrs K because of her race. 
When the policy was cancelled, By Miles recorded this on CUE. I think By Miles is obliged to 
record the policy history accurately. And I cant say it did anything wrong in this or that it 
should be held responsible for Mrs Ks and Mr Ws increased premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman