DRN-2973687
The complaint
Mr W says National Westminster Bank Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to a 
transaction on his credit card which was part payment for a car refurbishment. 
What happened
Mr W bought a rare performance sports car in 2010 on finance. He has said in his statement 
provided by way of his representative that he bought it as an investment. My son (Mr G) has 
knowledge and interest in these types of car and I went with his advice with regards to the 
investment. He sourced the car through a garage. Mr W has also said I had agreed with 
(Mr G) that he would keep and look after the vehicle for me. The V5 registration document 
which registers the keepers details was made out in my sons name and as the registered 
keeper with DVLA. The finance agreement that I entered into with (a finance company) was 
arranged for me by (the garage which sold the vehicle).
During late 2013 and early 2014 it was decided to refurbish the car as it was rare and could 
fetch a premium once refitted and refurbished. As Mr W says Mr G did some research and 
made some investigations and made some enquiries and he spoke
to all three companies (hed found) and we decided to ask (Company A) to quote for the 
work.
Mr W then made numerous payments to Company A in a variety of payment methods over 
an extended period of time including a transaction to Company A in April 2016 using his 
NatWest credit card. It has since transpired that Company A was in difficulties from around 
that time and onward although Mr W and Mr G were unaware of this. Company A had been 
in possession of the car for some years. Mr W and Mr G started to be concerned and were 
met with more and more evasive answers. In February 2019 Mr G went to Company As 
location and discovered the car was missing and there was no sign of Company A. So this 
was reported to the Police. It transpires Company A was dissolved in December 2018 and 
evicted from its premises. The car has never been recovered.
So Mr W approached NatWest in order to make a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 for the money he paid towards the car refurbishment and consequential 
losses he says hes suffered. NatWest considered the matter and responded in October 
2019 saying that the only apparent contract in place for the refurbishment was between Mr G 
and Company A. It also said that there was a lack of evidence of a contract between Mr W 
and Company A and thus it was unable to agree to a claim.
Unhappy with NatWests position Mr W brought his complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator felt NatWest hadnt treated Mr W unfairly. Mr W remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest and Mr W dont agree to some of the key issues here. I can only make my decision 
based on the evidence available and the arguments made. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
Mr W used his credit card with NatWest to pay Company A for one of the many transactions 
he had with it over an extended period of time for this car to be refurbished. This means 
NatWest has certain responsibilities to Mr W which arise from the relevant law, specifically, 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). There is no need for me to go into 
great detail about how this section operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of 
allowing Mr W to hold NatWest liable for breaches of contract by Company A, or 
misrepresentations made by it in relation to the service provided. Again without going into a 
large amount of detail a breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails to 
provide what it has agreed to under that contract. And this is what Mr W says happened 
here.
However before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are 
some tests set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ws claim meets these criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods, the debtor, should have a contractual
relationship with the company who supplied the goods, as well as with the credit provider, 
the creditor. And this is the crux of the complaint here. NatWest says its not liable under the 
CCA because DCS isnt made out in relation to Mr W (its customer) and as such whether 
Company A breached the contract or not doesnt make a difference as its not liable in any 
event. Mr W says that the DCS relationship is in place so NatWest can be held liable for any 
breach of contract by Company A.
In this case there wasnt a formal written contractual agreement document created and 
agreed at the beginning of the agreement that youd see in many situations. But that doesnt 
mean there isnt a contract which binds the parties as these can take many forms. But the 
absence of a formal written contractual agreement things are less clear cut.
There are however some emails between Mr G and Company A from late 2013 and in 2014. 
In these there is a discussion of requirements for the car refurbishment and costings. I note 
that Mr W isnt one of the parties being emailed. Its solely Mr G and Company As 
representatives in the email conversations. Which is supported by Mr Ws comments on the 
matter that Mr G had sourced Company A and liaised with it.
Mr W points out that all the payments to Company A were made by him. But it doesnt 
necessarily follow that hes part of the contract to refurbish the car. Just because you provide 
the funds doesnt mean necessarily youre a party to the contract agreed. And similarly the 
fact that Mr W purchased the car originally doesnt mean he was a contracting party to its 
refurbishment some years later. And bearing in mind the conflicting positions of the parties to 
this complaint I need to decide on balance whether NatWests position on the matter is fair 
or not.It is of note that the car concerned was a limited edition (only 1000 made) high performance 
vehicle, which had particular styling, specifications and was only available in one colour. This 
model of car has a substantial fan base and due to its performance, specifications and 
limited numbers has significant appeal nowadays, many years after it was produced. And 
this appeal is reflected in the cost of purchasing cars of this model now. And it is clear from 
what Mr W says that Mr G took the lead on sourcing the refurbishment and liaising with 
Company A. As Mr W says My son (Mr G) has knowledge and interest in these types of car 
and I went with his advice with regards to the investment. So although Mr G didnt purchase 
the car it seems he was a significant influence in its purchase. Indeed it seems from what Mr 
W says about him being the person with knowledge and interest in these types of car, that 
he sourced the car and the later refurbishing of it and did all the available written liaison with 
Company A that Mr G was the driving force in relation to everything to do with the car. 
Mr W says Mr G was the named person on the V5 document and recorded as the registered 
keeper with DVLA. Aside from Mr Ws written complaint submissions and his funding the 
purchase of the car through finance, the majority of all the documentation from the time 
points to Mr G being the person who was the key person in the purchase and planned 
refurbishment of this car. All of the evidence considered together leads me to consider that 
Mr W was funding Mr Gs interest in this car. It is unclear why Mr G didnt purchase the car 
himself (whether outright or on finance). But as Mr W says it was Mr G who had the interest 
and knowledge about a specialised niche car such as this.
It is also clear that the emails sent between Company A and Mr G had very specific 
information about the refurbishment of this specific car. I think it fair to say the specifications 
discussed in these emails require a degree of specialist knowledge on the matter. To 
illustrate this I note the following:
Hi (Mr G) Nice to meet you this afternoon, Thanks for spending the time to visit us and see 
what we are about. Hope I answered all or most of your questions, For the amount of power 
your looking for is a lot and to make it reliable is another level. As you have had past 
experience with other engine builders who have not been able to do this for you which I am 
sorry you didn't find us earlier and had the job done right first time round and not spend so 
much money getting there. When we spoke this
afternoon we discussed a 6-speed conversion to handle the amount of power you would like. 
These boxes are capable of hold a lot of power 500+hp if you wish to go that far.
So it seems to me that Mr G was pushing matters forward with his specialist knowledge on 
these matters and there is no persuasive evidence to Mr W providing anything other than the 
funding for this contract for the cars refurbishment.
Ill now address some of Mr Ws key arguments as I see them.
Mr W notes the emails Ive referred to and say his omission from them is not conclusive or 
relevant. Bearing in mind they are the only contemporaneous written records of what 
happened at that time they are clearly relevant to establishing who were the contracting 
parties. And although not decisive to my thinking they are important to my mind in 
understanding what happened and who Company A considered themselves to be dealing 
with.
Mr W notes that he paid for the refurbishment and he disputes that there is no evidence that 
he was involved in the contract. Clearly Mr W says that he considers he was a party to the 
contract so there is evidence for me to consider that he was party to the contract. However 
for the reasons given Im not persuaded he was a party to the contract. Financing the 
purchase of the car and funding the refurbishment arent enough. It is clear to my mind that 
Company A were dealing with Mr G and he was agreeing the work and agreeing to the quoted costs. Its possible that Company A werent even particularly aware of the nature of 
Mr Ws involvement if at all. So for these reasons and those described earlier I dont think Mr 
W was a contracting party in the refurbishment of the car.
Mr W says he has benefited from the contract. I take this to suggest that there was some 
form of third-party contract arrangement here as clearly hes not profited or benefited 
otherwise from what has happened seeing as hes paid out money and lost the car with 
nothing to show for this. Im not persuaded by this argument of a third-party contract as Ive 
not seen persuasive evidence of the criteria required for such being met here. And I note 
from Mr Ws own submissions (which are extensive) he does not set out the precise details 
of either the agreement between him and Mr G nor what the agreement was between Mr G, 
Mr W and Company A. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Company A were aware they 
were contracting with Mr W and Mr G. Its possible that it was aware that Mr W was funding 
the matter but that isnt the same as Company A agreeing to a three-party contract. And Ive 
seen no persuasive evidence of the irrevocability of such a third-party contract.
Mr W notes that the Investigator in this case said there was no evidence to suggest that Mr 
G was acting as agent for Mr W and argues that there isnt evidence to suggest he wasnt 
acting as agent either. Im not persuaded by this. Considering Mr Ws extensive submissions 
to this service I think if there had been a formal agreement between Mr G and Mr W 
(including some form of agency agreement) then I think it likely Mr W would have mentioned 
it and described it originally. Bearing in mind the car was purchased in 2010 and liaison with 
Company A didnt start until 2013 and neither Mr W nor Mr G seem to have sought to drive 
matters forward until some years after that, it doesnt seem that this endeavour was done to 
turn a profit quickly on formal terms between them. And bearing in mind Mr W has 
professional representation who were on notice of the issues at hand here (notwithstanding 
their own professional knowledge) had there been an agency agreement in place Mr W 
should have set this out to this service at the start and provided any supporting 
documentation then. But considering the wealth of comment and documentary evidence 
provided by Mr W and no description of such an agreement being in place then on balance 
Im happy that no such agreement was in place.
Mr Ws arguments here are that in essence his statement on what happened here should be 
decisive. That he was the driving force behind everything and that the contract had to be 
between Mr W and the garage (Company A). This is far from persuasive and undermined 
by the evidence provided by Mr W in his commentary, the emails hes submitted as Ive 
described and for the reasons Ive described.
I note with interest that Mr Ws representative has said the evidence relied upon in support 
of the Ombudsmans decision is not evidence that can be relied upon. All the evidence in 
this case has been supplied by Mr W and his representative. This service has not relied 
upon evidence supplied by Company A or any other party. I should clarify that the position to 
which Mr Ws representative refers was an assessment by an Investigator (not an 
Ombudsman), which is the first part of this services two-part process as explained in that 
assessment. That assessment wasnt a decision and wasnt binding. 
Mr Ws representative has said that it is Mr Ws case that he was the owner of the vehicle. 
This isnt disputed. Nor is it the crux of the matter. The crux is whether the DCS relationship 
is intact or not. And on balance Im satisfied that Mr W wasnt the contracting party in the 
contract for the works on the car. Which means that the DCS chain is broken. And thus the 
complaint about NatWests position on the matter is unsuccessful for all the reasons Ive 
described.So all in all having considered NatWests position on the matter Im not persuaded its treated 
Mr W unfairly. Im not persuaded on balance that Mr W was actually the contracting party. 
So I dont think NatWest hasnt done anything wrong here which needs remedy.
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with this decision. And not only has Mr W paid 
Company A this substantial sum of money but has lost the car on top of this. And Id imagine 
hes possibly incurred other costs as well. So I can well appreciate his disappointment at 
what has happened. But NatWest has treated him fairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman