DRN-1807515
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way West One Loan Limited (West One) calculated 
interest payments on a loan.
.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had an existing loan arrangement with West One which ended in June 2018. 
They sought to extend the period of the loan for a further six month period.
In January 2019, West One and Mr and Mrs H were in contact about how Mr and Mrs H 
intended to exit the loan. Mr and Mrs H indicated that alternative arrangements were being 
made with a different business, and were due to complete in early February 2019. 
The loan with the other business didnt complete in February 2019. West One noted that Mr 
and Mrs H hadnt repaid its loan and started court proceedings with a view to repossessing a 
property owned by Mr and Mrs H. Mr and Mrs H sold the property which was security against 
the loan in order to repay West One.
Mr and Mrs H complained to West One. They said that West One had incorrectly said that 
the term of the loan ended in January 2019, which meant that the total amount West One 
said was due to be repaid in February 2019 was also wrong as too much interest had been 
charged. This had meant that theyd been unable to complete the new loan arrangements as 
the amount West One was saying had to be repaid took the loan value above the maximum 
offered by the other business. As theyd been unable to obtain alternative finance, theyd had 
to sell the property for less than originally intended in order to repay West One. They argued 
that West Ones errors had resulted in a significant financial loss.
West One rejected their complaint. It said that correspondence with Mr and Mrs H had 
indicated that the loan term ended in January 2019, and that interest had been charged 
correctly. During the course of the court proceedings to repossess the property, West One 
conceded that the end date of the loan arrangement should be considered to be February 
2019, and recalculated the interest from January 2019 to a lower rate.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator thought that West One 
should pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the errors made by West 
One, but that she couldnt hold them responsible for the losses claimed by Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept this, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They say that its 
clear that, if West One had used the correct end date from the outset, and applied the 
correct interest charges, they would have been able to successfully obtain further financing 
in February 2019. They say that West Ones errors have caused them to suffer a financial 
loss of more than £130,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point when considering this complaint is what effect the incorrect end date had 
on Mr and Mrs H, and what West One needs to do to put things right.
I know that Mr and Mrs H are sure that the failure to secure their preferred refinancing option 
in February 2019 was wholly attributable to West One applying the wrong interest level in 
January 2019. But I cant agree this is the case.
Interest on the loan with West One was calculated in two ways. During the 6 month period of 
the loan facility, it was charged in one lump sum at the start of the period, at half the rate that 
was charged at the end of the 6 month period. After the 6 month period, the interest amount 
was added to the loan value at the start of the month at the higher rate. 
Ive looked back at the correspondence between Mr and Mrs H and West One in July 2018, 
when the loan was being extended for the 6 month period in question. A letter sent in August 
2018 confirmed that the loan had completed in August 2018, for a period of 6 months. A 
letter which had been sent in July, which contained the terms of the loan, said that the loan 
was due for repayment 6 months after the loan was completed, from which point the higher 
rate of interest would be charged.
On the face of it, therefore, it seems clear that the 6 month period at the lower interest rate 
ended in February 2019, this being 6 months after the loan was completed in August 2018. 
This is what has led West One to conceding that the lower interest rate should have been 
charged in January 2019.
I dont think that its as simple as that however when looking at West Ones potential 
liabilities for Mr and Mrs Hs claimed losses. Mr and Mrs Hs previous loan arrangement with 
West One had ended in June 2018. When the new arrangement was put in place, they made 
a separate payment to cover interest accrued in June 2018. 
There was no payment made to cover any interest accrued in July 2018. West One argued 
that this was because interest for July 2018 was included in the loan arrangement, and that if 
the loan had started in August 2018, then interest for July 2018 would have needed to be 
paid before the further arrangement could take effect.
Ive also seen correspondence between West One and Mr and Mrs H between August 2018 
and February 2019. Im satisfied that these stated that the loan arrangement was due to end 
in January 2019. It appears that it was only after the refinancing with the separate business 
fell through that Mr and Mrs H first suggested that the actual end date of the loan was in 
February 2019. Mr H sent an email in December 2018, after West One had requested 
payment of an interest amount in error, saying that the end date was in January 2019. 
Im satisfied that the impact of this is that if Mr and Mrs H had raised the issue around West 
One having recorded the incorrect end date for the loan before January 2019, then it seems 
likely that clarity around the correct end date, and therefore which interest rates were 
applicable when, could have been given before February 2019. Mr and Mrs H were in receipt 
of several pieces of correspondence that indicated West One considered the end date to be 
in January 2019, and they didnt act or raise any concern about this at the time.
Im also not persuaded that, even by applying the higher rate of interest in January 2019, this 
was the sole reason for the new financing arrangements falling through. When Mr and Mrs H 
were in contact with West One about the new arrangements in January and February 2019, 
they said that the completion of the new financing was contingent on an underwriting condition being met. After the deadline for those arrangements passed, Mr and Mrs H 
requested a new statement confirming the redemption sum for the West One loan.
I think this is also significant in indicating that West One werent at fault for the failure to 
complete the new financing arrangements. If it was Mr and Mrs Hs position that West One 
had incorrectly calculated the amount to be repaid, and that this incorrect calculation was 
delaying the completion of the new finance agreement, then Id have expected this to have 
been referenced rather than reference to an underwriting condition. And if an incorrect 
figure had meant that the new arrangements hadnt been finalised before the deadline, Id 
have expected this to have been mentioned immediately by Mr and Mrs H. The evidence I 
have is that this wasnt suggested by Mr and Mrs H until around 5 months later, after West 
One had started legal proceedings to repossess their property.
Theres another reason I come to this conclusion. During the course of the discussions 
around new financing arrangements in January 2019, Mr and Mrs H asked for the 
redemption figure which theyd been given at the start of the month to be honoured by West 
One. At the time of this request, West Ones original position was that the loan period had 
ended and so interest at the higher rate was applicable and would need to be added to the 
redemption figure. Its position now, having acknowledged its error around the loan end date, 
was that interest at the lower rate would need to be added to the redemption figure.
Im satisfied that whichever date is relied on for the end date of the loan, that at the time Mr 
and Mrs H requested that the redemption figure for the beginning of January be honoured, 
further interest had been accrued in accordance with the terms of the loan. So it follows that 
West One werent obliged to accept a lower payment in settlement of the loan.
Even if the reason that the refinancing with the separate business couldnt be completed was 
because of the value of the West One loan, Ive seen nothing to show that the incorrect rate 
of interest being added for January 2019 meant that the other business declined to offer the 
finance. The only evidence I have to support that the value of West Ones loan had an 
impact on the decisions of another business about whether to offer finance was that the 
value at the start of January 2019 was significant, but that by the time this became relevant, 
the amount which needed to be repaid had increased beyond that amount, in line with the 
terms of the loan. If the value of the loan exceeded the maximum that another business was 
willing to lend in January 2019, this was the case irrespective of the amount of interest 
charged by West One. 
So, on balance, I cant agree that West Ones errors in respect of the end date were the 
reason that the further financing arrangements didnt complete. The evidence in the form of 
correspondence between West One and Mr and Mrs H at the time the new arrangements 
were being made doesnt support a conclusion that the refinancing was unsuccessful 
because West One had calculated the wrong redemption figure.
Thats not to say there werent errors in the way West One administered the loan. As it 
acknowledged, the incorrect interest rate was charged in January 2018 as the end date for 
the loan facility was unclear in the documents sent when the loan was being arranged and 
completed. But West One has acknowledged this and reduced the interest accrued from 
January 2019 to the lower level. It also didnt add any interest to the loan value, or request 
any payment of interest, from July 2018, even though based on the information available to 
me, interest could have been fairly charged for that month. The amount of interest from July 
2018 would have been in excess of £4,000.
 
While Mr and Mrs H were seeking to pay off the loan with West One and obtain alternative 
financing, they requested a number of redemption statements. In accordance with the terms 
of the loan, West One charged £100 for each of these. Its refunded £600, or the equivalent of 6 of these fees. Im not persuaded I should ask it to refund any further fees paid by Mr and 
Mrs H. Some redemption statements were required in order to show the new lenders the 
amounts repayable on this loan, and the fees charged by West One were stated in the terms 
of the loan.
Our investigator thought that in addition to the refund of the £600 in redemption statement 
fees, and the reduction in the January 2019 interest, West One should pay £100 for the 
inconvenience and distress caused to Mr and Mrs H by giving the incorrect end date for the 
loan. I agree with this, and thinks its an appropriate amount for West One to pay in the 
circumstances. I think that this was a relatively minor, administrative error, and West One 
has acknowledged this and taken appropriate steps to put things right in terms of the 
amounts payable for the loan. I cant agree that it had the effect that Mr and Mrs H have said 
it did, that further financing arrangements were unsuccessful and their property was sold for 
less than it would otherwise have been solely because of West Ones errors.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, West One Loan 
Limited must pay Mr and Mrs H £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman