DRN-3467218
The complaint
T, a limited company complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to open a new bank 
account without explaining why. T is represented in this complaint by a director, Miss R.
T wants Barclays to open the accounts and pay compensation for the time it has wasted 
trying to resolve matters.
What happened
T provides property services to customers. After T opened a business bank account with 
Barclays in 2019, it went on to open several client accounts to hold client money. In 2021, T 
wanted to open a new client account but Barclays refused.
T tried to find out why Barclays wouldnt agree. It wouldnt give T specific reasons why, 
instead explaining that relevant legislation concerning Ts business, had changed. This 
meant that T no longer met Barclays eligibility criteria.
During Ts complaint, Barclays said it would be closing some of its other accounts. In early 
2022, Barclays reversed its decision. 
T says that it attempted to contact Barclays several times but didnt get anywhere. T wanted 
Barclays to compensate it for the time it had wasted and the distress the issue had caused.
The investigator didnt think that Barclays had made a mistake. She was satisfied that it gave 
T the required two months notice of its intention to close the accounts. And that Barclays 
was entitled to decline to open a new account after it changed its processes for considering 
new applications. 
The investigator told T that Barclays didnt need to give reasons why it wouldnt agree to 
open new accounts. The investigator thought Barclays offer to pay T a total of £100 was fair. 
She explained that Barclays terms and conditions excluded loss of business, goodwill, 
opportunity, and profit. Overall, the investigator thought Barclays had acted in line with its 
terms and conditions and so didnt need to compensate T.
T wasnt happy with the investigators view. T said it had repeatedly contacted Barclays. T 
told Barclays it wasnt happy with how it had handled the complaint. T said it tried to explain 
to Barclays why it was required by law to hold client funds in client accounts. 
T said it asked HMRC for assistance and that HMRC confirmed that block management 
companies, such as T, werent required to register with HMRC Anti-Money Laundering 
(AML) supervision to be able to open client accounts. T says Barclays registered it 
incorrectly and that Barclays changed its decision after HMRC explained that T didnt need 
to be registered under the AML supervision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I appreciate Ts frustration with Barclays decision about opening the client account. But I 
think this was a commercial decision that Barclays was entitled to make. This service 
wouldnt usually interfere in a businesses commercial discretion. However, I did ask 
Barclays for further details of why it declined the application, to satisfy myself that the 
decision was made fairly.
Barclays provided some further details of its decision-making process. Im sorry that I cant 
share this information with T due to its commercial sensitivity. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Barclays decision around opening a new account was unfair.
Barclays Business Customer Agreement sets out its power to close any account by giving 
notice: 
We can close an account (and stop providing any services and end this agreement) 
by giving you at least two months notice.
Barclays is entitled to close a customers account without giving a reason  as can a 
customer. Im satisfied that Barclays gave T 60 days notice of its intention to close the other 
client accounts that it held. Although this was frustrating for T, I dont find that Barclays made 
a mistake or that it needed to explain the reasons why it was doing so.
T, through its director, says that Barclays misunderstood the money laundering requirements 
for its business. Ive seen emails sent to T by HMRC which refer to there being no 
requirement for T to register for AML supervision. But I dont think I can find that Barclays 
was wrong to take the position that it did. Or that the reversal of Barclays decisions about 
opening and closing Ts accounts means they were wrong in the first place.
Another aspect of Ts complaint is that its unhappy with how Barclays has handled its
complaint. However, the FCA Handbook limits the types of complaint that this service can
consider to those:
...about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service....
While I can appreciate that T is unhappy about how Barclays has handled its complaint, the 
handling of complaints isnt a financial service. This means I cant consider this aspect of Ts
complaint.
T says that Barclays was patronising and unprofessional. I can appreciate that this is the 
way Miss R felt but this complaint is made by T, not Miss R. T cant have hurt feelings so 
although I appreciate how Miss R felt, I cant make an award to T to reflect that distress.
Barclays offered T a total of £100 compensation for any failings in its customer service. I 
consider this offer to be a fair way to resolve Ts complaint. I m sorry that this is likely to 
come as a disappointment to Miss R as she would like Barclays to pay T substantial 
compensation. My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to settle Ts complaint 
that I think is fair. So, my decision is that if it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay T £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman