DRN-3858558
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax turned down a Chargeback 
claim. He would like the cost of the item he purchased refunded (£1,985) along with 
consequential expenses.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Os situation. He bought a used car which broke down some weeks 
after having it. He then made a Chargeback request through Halifax. The 
Chargeback scheme is a  voluntary scheme operated under strict rules set  by the 
card scheme operators with documentary evidence required to support claims. There 
is no automatic right to a refund. Banks dont have to put in claims but if there is a 
reasonable prospect of success we expect them to do so. Halifax  put in a 
Chargeback claim and, on successful defence by the merchant, then put in a pre-
arbitration claim. So, Halifax attempted to make a Chargeback claim  twice on Mr Os 
behalf but both attempts were unsuccessful. However, I do think Halifax were right to 
attempt to make the claims.
I appreciate Mr O has provided evidence to show the gearbox needs replacing on the 
car. But the car he bought was a 2002 one. I dont know the mileage at the point of 
sale, but given the age alone, and the price he paid, he might have expected some 
issues with it. And Mr O did have the opportunity to see and test drive the car before 
he bought it. I understand the test drive was limited due to the amount to petrol in the 
car but I think Mr O could have asked for that to be topped up  if necessary at his 
cost  if he felt he wanted or needed a longer test drive .
The merchants main defence to the Chargeback claim was that it offered to repair 
the car. Mr O has also confirmed that this was the case although he told us he would 
have had to return the car to the merchant which would have been a cost to him. I 
dont think the merchants offer  was unreasonable. The merchant also offered to 
refund the cost of the car minus £500. I appreciate the issues Mr O had in 
communicating with the merchant. But I think as the merchant proposed two 
solutions for Mr O I think this was a valid defence to the Chargeback claim as it does 
show the merchant was willing to assist Mr O. So, I dont think Halifax were wrong to 
not take the claim to arbitration.
Halifax has already paid Mr O £40 compensation for its poor customer service in 
handling his initial claim. It has agreed with our investigators suggestion to pay a 
further £100. This seems reasonable to me as I agree that Halifax could have 
provided more information on how the Chargeback process works and managed Mr 
Os  his expectation for a full refund better.
My final decision
My final decision is that I  uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr O £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman