DRN-3986300
The complaint
Mr B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct delayed releasing a large 
payment he had requested for purchasing a property.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
I have reviewed the Terms and Conditions of the account, which Mr B would have agreed to, 
prior to opening the account. Having done so, I am satisfied that it says:
CHAPS is a same-day electronic transfer for payments within the UK, often used for large 
amounts (such as if you are buying a house).
The Terms and Conditions go on to say that CHAPS payments to other accounts (outside of 
HSBC) will be made the same working day.
Mr B received the funds in his account on 27 September 2022. He contacted HSBC at 
11.14 am to request the funds be transferred to the beneficiarys account. Having listened to 
the call, I am satisfied that Mr B was told the funds would be released by the end of the 
business day. The advisor confirmed this would be no later than 5/6pm. Mr B said ok and 
asked if the advisor was aware that he had contacted the bank previously to let it know he 
was planning to make the payment in order to purchase a property. The advisor confirmed 
he was aware but due to the size of the transfer it would be subjected to further security 
checks. Having listened to the call I am satisfied the information the advisor provided was in 
line with the Terms and Conditions of the account.
The payment was released at 16.22pm, which again is in line with the Terms and Conditions 
of the account and before the timeframe advised by the advisor on the phone that day. As 
such, I cant conclude that HSBC acted unfairly regarding the time it took to release the 
funds. Mr B had agreed to the Terms and Conditions prior to opening the account. As such 
he ought to have been aware that this type of transaction will be completed by close of 
business the same day. He was also aware at 11.14am when he contacted HSBC that it 
could take until close of business that day for it to release the funds.
Its not in dispute that Mr B contacted HSBC prior to purchasing his house to make it aware 
of the process involved in him purchasing his new home. Having listened to the call I am 
satisfied Mr B was told he would need to call HSBC to make the payment as it would need to 
go as an electronic funds transfer. While I accept that Mr B asked HSBC to make a note of 
the conversation, HSBC didnt commit to doing any security checks in advance or confirm 
how long it would take to release the funds. 
Mr B has said HSBC ought to use other methods to ensure security checks are carried out in 
advance. However, HSBC has explained it cant carry out the necessary security checks 
until the payment has been set up and requested to be debited. And I dont think this is 
unreasonable. In any event, HSBC has made its customers aware that this type of 
transaction will be made the same business day and customers have a choice if they wish to 
accept those Terms. And as I have explained above, I am satisfied it acted in line with the 
Terms and Conditions and released the payment earlier than the timeframe it had committed 
to.
I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling and empathise with the concerns he had at the time. 
But in reaching my decision in this case, I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy 
and consider the case impartially and fairly, based on the available evidence. Having done 
so I dont agree HSBC has acted unfairly. So, I wont be asking it to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman