DRN-2674085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing their 
complaint. It says they were given unsuitable investment advice by Barclays Bank UK Plc 
and it has agreed as such by upholding the complaint. However, the CMC considers 
Barclays has wrongly applied an incorrect redress calculation to put matters right. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D met with an adviser in 1994 and agreed to take out medium risk Barclays 
Unicorn portfolios. They each invested £12,000. Each portfolio was split equally between a 
multi-fund unit trust, and the remaining £6,000 placed into a personal equity plan. 
In 2004 Mr and Mrs D closed their European Bond fund and in 2016 they closed their 
Worldwide and 500 funds, but each of them retained the remainder of their investments.     
In August 2019, the CMC complained to Barclays. It said Mr and Mrs D were mis-sold their 
portfolios because they had no previous experience of having such a large sum of money in 
their accounts or of investing in risk based products. 
In January 2020, Barclays provided a written response to the complaint. It said it had not 
retained any sales records from 1994. Because of this, it could not confirm with confidence 
that Mr and Mrs D had the appropriate experience, cash savings, income, or assets against 
which they could consider any risk based investments. It therefore believed they ought to 
have kept their capital in an appropriate savings account.  
Barclays said it had carried out a calculation to see if Mr and Mrs D had been disadvantaged 
through investing, rather than keeping their funds on deposit. Having done so, it calculated 
they had made a large comparative gain (Mr D £14,586.50 and Mrs D £6,096.92), and 
therefore no further redress was due.  
It did pay Mr and Mrs D £150 to reflect the amount of time it took to provide a substantive 
reply to their complaint.  
The CMC disagreed and referred the complaint to this service. It submitted that the 
investments were affordable for Mr and Mrs D, so Barclays had been wrong to undertake a 
comparison with leaving their money on deposit. It said they would have taken some risk, 
just not the level of risk posed by the recommendation of the Unicorn portfolio. The CMC 
said the correct benchmark for a comparison was by applying an equal combination of the 
published Bank of England Bond Rate and the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Index.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but she did not think it should succeed. She said 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to suggest what sort of level of risk Mr and Mrs D were 
willing to take in 1994, if at all. She did not think Barclays had been unreasonable in 
undertaking a Bank of England base rate comparison.  
The CMC said Mr and Mrs D disagreed. It said it understood it was difficult to ascertain 
circumstances with an absence of information. Nonetheless, it considers that Mr and Mrs Ds 
experience suggests they would have taken out some type of investment, but in a low risk 
fund instead. Further, it said that they didnt go on to make any capital withdrawals for the 
first ten years is evidence that they were willing to take some risk with their money.   
The investigator did not change her view. Whilst she noted the CMCs comments, she said 
that no information existed from the time of the sale and she did not feel there was sufficient 
persuasive evidence to conclude that Mr and Mrs D were given unsuitable advice yet would 
have taken a lower degree of risk. 
The CMC asked for Mr and Mrs Ds complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On my review of the evidence, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator. I do 
not believe Barclays ought to do anything differently in respect of its redress calculation.  
This complaint has been upheld and there isnt a requirement for me to review that outcome, 
since both parties agree that Barclays shouldnt have made the recommendation it did at the 
time of the sales in 1994. Where the parties disagree is over the calculation Barclays has 
undertaken which shows no redress is due to Mr and Mrs D.  
There is no evidence at all from the time of the sale. Neither party has any contemporaneous 
information to show the reasoning for the recommendation or Mr and Mrs Ds needs at that 
time. In the complaint of August 2019, the CMC set out Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances 
retrospectively. 
It said Mr and Mrs D were aged 63 and 61 at the time of the advice and they had just 
received a lump sum of £20,000 into their account which led to an approach from Barclays 
adviser. The CMC also says that when they received the significant inheritance lump sum, 
they had no previous experience of having such a large sum of money in their accounts and 
had no prior experience of investing in risk based products. 
In circumstances such as these, it is not possible to say with any certainty what Mr and Mrs 
D might otherwise have done. The benchmark the CMC has suggested applies where this 
service (or a business) may conclude on balance from the evidence that the consumers 
would likely have made an investment, but we do not know what that would have been. 
However, here it is not possible to safely conclude that Mr and Mrs D would otherwise have 
invested that sum at all.  
Even if I were to accept that they might have wished to take out an investment, I can see no 
clear evidence from the retrospective assessment that leads me to conclude Mr and Mrs D 
wished to take a small amount of risk with their money. To the contrary, the circumstances 
set out by the CMC suggest that Mr and Mrs D wouldnt otherwise have invested but for 
being approached by Barclays because of an unexpected lump sum received into their bank 
account.
In any event, even if this complaint been upheld at this service, the appropriate redress 
would not use a comparison to fixed-rate bonds or the suggested FTSE benchmark (if some 
type of risk would have been taken). This is because data for those benchmarks does not go 
back beyond 1996. For investments taken out before this, the appropriate comparison for 
redress would be to the Bank of England rates used by Barclays in this case. In the circumstances, I believe that Barclays has conducted a fair and reasonable redress 
calculation.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman