DRN-3129934
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited handled a claim he made under 
his home insurance policy following a burglary at his home. 
What happened
Mr A made a claim under his home insurance policy to UKI for the theft of several items of 
jewellery from his home. In July 2020 UKI settled his claim by paying him a cash settlement 
of £30,300 in line with the limits under the policy which Mr A accepted. 
In December 2020 UKI realised that in August 2020 Mr A had received replacement items of 
jewellery - in addition to the £30,300 cash settlement it paid Mr A. UKI had failed to tell the 
approved jeweller it had settled his claim. This meant that effectively Mr As claim had been 
settled twice. 
UKI said Mr A had therefore been put in a position of betterment and said he needed to 
either return the items of jewellery or the cash settlement. UKI contacted Mr A in December 
2020 and made a number of attempts to contact him between December 2020 and March 
2021 without success.
In March 2021 Mr A discussed the claim with UK. Unhappy with its request, he raised a 
complaint. 
UKI paid Mr A £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its error. But it said its 
decision to request the return of either the jewellery or the cash settlement was correct. And 
UKI said it had made Mr A aware that the limit to his claim was set at £30,300  so he 
should have reasonably been aware that the jewellery items to settle his claim  after the 
cash settlement  wasnt correct. 
Mr A asked us to look at this complaint. He also asked us to look at a complaint he made 
about the sale of the policy. But as hed received a final response to that complaint over six 
months before, we told Mr A we couldnt look at that issue for him. 
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably in asking for Mr A to return either the 
jewellery items or the cash settlement. So he didnt recommend Mr As complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mr A didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy with UKI provided a limit for stolen jewellery items up to £30,300. This included 
specified and non-specified items. Mr As complaint that the policy was mis-sold to him isnt 
one I can consider for the reasons given above. So the complaint Ive considered is UKIs 
decision to request that Mr A return either the jewellery or the cash settlement he received 
when he made a theft claim under the policy. 
UKI accepts that it made an error as it failed to let the jeweller know it had settled Mr As 
claim by way of a cash settlement. So when the jeweller contacted Mr A a month after his 
claim had been settled in cash, it wasnt aware of this. Mr A says he thought the jeweller had 
contacted him to pay the rest of his claim  as he believed his claim was worth more 
anyway. But having listened to the calls between the jeweller and Mr A, I dont think he was 
led to believe this. 
As Mr A has effectively received a settlement for his claim twice, I think UK is entitled to 
request the return of either the jewellery or the cash settlement from Mr A. For the distress 
and inconvenience its error has caused, I think the compensation its paid of £100 is fair and 
reasonable. 
I understand Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not upholding 
his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman