DRN-3124921
The complaint
Mr K complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DG). His complaint relates to 
DGs rejection of a claim he made under his household warranty policy, relating to a 
dishwasher.
This decision only relates to Mr Ks complaint about the rejection of his claim relating to his 
dishwasher. The decision doesnt relate to a separate policy covering his washing machine.
References to DG include its agents who assess claims under the policy.
What happened
Mr K took out an extended warranty policy with DG on his dishwasher in September 2020, 
covering electrical and mechanical breakdown as well as accidental damage. The policy cost 
was £6.50 per month. The dishwasher was built into the kitchen of his property and was in 
place when Mr K moved into the property in 2019. The dishwasher developed a fault later in 
September 2020, so Mr K contacted DG. DG sent an engineer to look at the dishwasher, 
who concluded that the dishwasher needed some replacement parts. But one of the parts 
was no longer available, as it was obsolete.
DG considered the claim but declined it. This was based on the model of dishwasher being 
one that was more than eight years old, but the policy didnt provide cover for appliances of 
that age. DG then cancelled the policy at the end of September 2020, as they wouldnt have 
issued a policy had they been aware of the dishwashers age when the policy was taken out.
Mr K was unhappy at his claim being rejected and his policy cancelled and complained to 
DG, who didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, DG said that when the policy 
was taken out, Mr K was asked about the age of the dishwasher, to which he replied about 
two years. DG also restated the point that while they would accept estimates of the age of 
appliances, the terms of the policy meant that appliances more than eight years old wouldnt 
be covered. As it had come to light that Mr Ks dishwasher was more than eight years old, 
DG concluded that the policy wouldnt cover the dishwasher.
Unhappy at DGs response, Mr K complained to this service. The main part of his complaint 
was that DG should have replaced his dishwasher if they couldnt obtain the parts to repair it. 
He was also unhappy that DG cancelled his policy but continued taking payments.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that on balance, based on the 
evidence from the DG engineers visit to inspect the dishwasher, it wasnt in good working 
order and would have had to be replaced soon in any event. Based on this, she didnt think 
DG had acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ks claim. 
On the continued payments being taken, the investigator concluded DG cancelled the policy 
in respect of the dishwasher and hadnt taken any payments other than an initial payment of 
£6.50 (the payments taken were in respect of the washing machine). DG subsequently 
refunded Mr Ks initial payment (with interest). They also paid Mr K £50 in compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. The investigator thought this was fair.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Mr K said that when he made his claim for the dishwasher, he had a valid policy 
Also that the dishwasher was already in his property when he moved there, so he wasnt 
sure about its age. He also said that he wasnt asked for evidence of purchase when he took 
out his policy nor that DG wouldnt cover the dishwasher if it was over eight years old.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DG has acted fairly towards Mr K.
The key issue in Mr Ks complaint is that DG have wrongly declined his claim for the repair 
(or replacement) of his dishwasher as he had a valid policy when the fault occurred. He also 
argues that he wasnt asked for evidence of purchase when he took out his policy, nor that 
DG wouldnt cover the dishwasher if it was over eight years old. DGs view is that once they 
became aware of the age of the dishwasher (which meant they wouldnt have offered cover) 
they acted fairly by cancelling the policy and returning the one months premium that had 
been collected.
DG say that their website (when a customer looks to take out a policy through that route) 
notes that they dont take on new business for appliances over eight years old. But as Mr K 
took out his policy through a telephone call with an agent, Ive listened carefully to the call. 
Mr K is asked a clear question about the age of the dishwasher (and its cost) to which he 
answers two years. The DG agent records this answer to mean that the date of acquisition 
would be 1 September 2018 (that is, two years before the policy start date of 1 September 
2020). Given that he was asked a clear question and gave a clear answer (of two years) its 
reasonable that the agent takes this information at face value.
 
DG have provided evidence that the sales script used by agents would have led to a policy 
being declined if a customer gave the age of an appliance as more than eight years. Im 
persuaded that Mr K stating that the dishwasher was about two years old meant that the 
eight-year limit wouldnt have been raised by the agent. Had he said that the appliance was 
more than eight years old, then Ive concluded that the agent would have declined to take 
out the policy and no policy would have been set up.
 
On the age of Mr Ks dishwasher, one of the parts requested for repair of the dishwasher 
was unavailable because it was obsolete. This would have indicated that the dishwasher 
was likely to be more than two years old. While I havent seen any specific evidence to 
enable the age of the dishwasher to be determined accurately, I have seen evidence that the 
model was first manufactured in 2006. Its not clear when the model was discontinued, but I 
havent seen any indication (for example, purchase reviews) later than 2010, which is 
consistent with the dishwasher being more than eight years old. 
While I accept that Mr K may have thought that the dishwasher was about two years old (it 
was in the property when he moved there in 2019) as Ive concluded that, on the balance of 
probabilities, it was more than eight years old then he gave an incorrect answer to the 
question he was asked. DG say that when they became aware of the age of the dishwasher 
(through the claims assessment process) this automatically led to the policy being cancelled. 
Where a consumer provides incorrect information, it can be treated as a misrepresentation 
under The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This 
requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking 
out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be qualifying, the insurer has to show they would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
 
The evidence from DG shows that they wouldnt have covered the dishwasher had they 
known it was more than eight years old, so Im satisfied that the misrepresentation by Mr K 
would have been a qualifying one. Its arguable that in telling the DG agent it was two years 
old Mr K made a careless misrepresentation (rather than deliberate or reckless). CIDRA 
states that when theres a careless misrepresentation the insurer can avoid the policy where 
it wouldnt have offered the cover at all, but it should refund the insurance premiums for the 
relevant period of the cover. This is what DG did through cancelling the policy and refunding 
the [one months] premium collected from Mr K. While DG say that in cancelling Mr Ks 
policy they didnt consider it in terms of the CIDRA requirements, Im satisfied that they 
would have been acting fairly had they done so. So, Ive concluded DG acted fairly in 
cancelling Mr Gs policy.
Although Ive concluded that DG acted fairly in cancelling Mr Ks policy and refunding the 
premium (including interest) Ive noted that theyve paid £50 for distress and inconvenience. 
While I understand that figure covers both the policy taken out for his dishwasher and the 
policy for his washing machine, I think its reasonable given the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman