DRN-3449479
The complaint
Miss S, as director of L, complains about the decision of Liberty Mutual Insurance 
Europe SE to decline Ls business interruption insurance claim for losses arising out of the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a brief summary of the events in question. Both parties 
are aware of the relevant circumstances. 
L operates as a public house. It held a retail insurance policy underwritten by Liberty Mutual. 
The policy provides cover for a number of areas of risk, including business interruption. 
In March 2020, Miss S contacted Liberty Mutual to claim for losses arising from an 
interruption to Ls business caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. She said that her and 
another member of staff had displayed symptoms of COVID-19, that these first developed on 
20 March 2020, and that her son had also since developed symptoms.
Liberty Mutual declined the claim. It said there was no evidence of an outbreak of COVID-19 
at Ls premises. It also said the policy was not designed to provide cover relating to 
circumstances such as the government-imposed restrictions. 
Miss S complained about this decision, bringing Ls complaint to our Service after 
Liberty Mutual did not alter its stance. But our Investigator also did not think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ultimately, he was not satisfied that L had demonstrated that it was more 
likely than not that there had been a discovery of COVID-19 at Ls premises, which is what 
the policy in effect required for Ls claim to be met.
Miss S remained unsatisfied and so Ls complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on L, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that L closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy L took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Ls policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ls business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ls claim. And I think 
Liberty Mutual acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ls claim under this area of cover.
Ls policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. This clause states, in part, that cover 
is provided for:
Interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of compulsory 
closure by a public body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the Premises 
arising from
a) discovery of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the Premises

I consider COVID-19 is a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease. And, unlike the 
position expressed by Liberty Mutual at the time, I also consider that if there was a discovery 
this disease at Ls premises prior to the introduction of the government-imposed restrictions, 
Ls losses arising from this closure would be covered  subject to the policy limits. 
So, the key question is whether there was a discovery of COVID-19 at Ls premises prior to 
the introduction of the relevant restrictions. 
In order for there to be a discovery, I consider that a person must have suffered from 
COVID-19 and either displayed symptoms of this or have been diagnosed with the disease 
at a time they were at the premises. And that this must have happened prior to the decision 
to introduce the relevant restrictions. 
The restrictions relevant to pubs, such as L operates as, were announced on 20 March 2020 
at around 5pm. General testing of the public wasnt something that was available at the time, 
and there is no suggestion that a relevant person was tested in this case. So, effectively, 
someone must have been displaying symptoms of COVID-19 at Ls premises before 5pm on 
20 March 2020. 
Miss S has indicated that her, and another employee, developed symptoms of what she 
considers was COVID-19. And that these first developed on 20 March 2020. It isnt clear 
whether these symptoms developed before 5pm or that either of these individuals was at the 
premises at the time. However, before considering this, it is necessary for me to determine 
whether the symptoms apparently experienced were most likely those of COVID-19. 
Miss S hasnt provided a great deal of information about the symptoms she, her colleague, 
or her son experienced. She has though provided an isolation note for herself, which she 
obtained by calling NHS 111. Shes indicated she made a number of calls to NHS 111 
around this time. Due to the passage of time, exact details of the calls are not available 
though. And the isolation note merely says Miss S should stay off work from 21 March 2020 
because:
they have symptoms of coronavirus.Whilst I have taken into account this isolation note, I must also bear in mind the fact that 
many of those advised to self-isolate by NHS 111 did not in fact have COVID-19. NHS 111 
took a cautionary approach, and provided this advice to anyone who contacted it with 
symptoms that might possibly be those of COVID-19. In many cases, this advice was 
unnecessary, as the individuals did not have this disease and, presumably, either did not 
have any illness at all or were suffering from another illness  such as flu. 
It does seem likely that Miss S was suffering from some illness around this time, as she had 
a telephone consultation with a locum GP. But it isnt clear that she was suffering from 
COVID-19.
L needs to demonstrate that it is more likely than not that the individuals at its premises had 
COVID-19, rather than any other condition. I am not unsympathetic to the difficulties 
associated with this. As I say, there was a lack of generalised testing and people were 
advised to stay away from hospitals and doctors surgeries unless absolutely necessary. But 
some of the symptoms of an illness such as flu would be similar to some of those relevant to 
COVID-19, and I need to be persuaded a relevant person was more likely suffering with the 
latter. In determining this, it is often helpful to consider contemporaneous evidence setting 
out what symptoms were displayed.
During the course of our Services investigation, Miss S asked her GP to write a letter 
confirming that she had COVID-19 in March 2020. In a letter dated 14 December 2021, her 
GP said that Miss S had a consultation on 30 March 2020, and that she was and had been 
for a week or so, unwell with symptoms of COVID-19. 
The letter did not specify what these symptoms were however. So, our Investigator spoke 
with the GP directly in April 2022. Miss Ss consultation was with a locum, so all her actual 
GP was able to do was refer to the notes on the system. He said that these read:
Cough, past week or so. Using inhaler. No SOB. Intermittent green phlegm. No 
fever. Normal oral intake. Spoke well. No evidence of any respiratory issues on the 
phone. Prescribed oxacillin. Some inhaler advice. If persistent or worsening, sos.
Based on this, the GP said he was unable to confirm whether Miss S would have had 
COVID-19. He noted that she was an asthma sufferer and that giving antibiotics in relation to 
COVID-19 wasnt something that was always done. He said that the 2021 letter was based 
on an assumption, and that it was almost assumed in 2020 that anyone with respiratory 
symptoms could have COVID-19 until proven otherwise.
Whilst I note this cautionary approach of assuming a person had COVID-19 from a 
healthcare standpoint, making such an assumption is not what I am required to do. I am 
required to consider whether L has demonstrated it is more likely than not that there was a 
discovery of COVID-19 at its premises. 
Taking all of the evidence provided into account, I dont think it has been demonstrated that 
Miss S more likely than not was suffering from COVID-19 in March 2020. 
It does seem that she was displaying some symptoms of illness, but it seems to me that 
these could have been symptoms of a chest infection or other non-coronavirus related 
illness. Without symptoms of fever, shortness of breath (which is what I understand SOB to 
refer to), or any symptom more specifically associated COVID-19, there is limited suggestion 
that Miss S did have COVID-19. A cough lasting a week or so could, frankly, be the result of 
any number of things. And many people with such symptoms around the time in question 
would not have been suffering from COVID-19.It is for L to demonstrate that it has a valid claim. So, it is for L to, in effect, demonstrate that 
it is more likely than not that there was a discovery of COVID-19 at its premises prior to 5pm 
on 20 March 2020. Taking all of the evidence available into account, I am not persuaded by 
the circumstances of this complaint that L has met this evidential burden. So, I am satisfied 
Liberty Mutuals decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Liberty Mutual should have met Ls claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Miss S, but I hope Ive provided her with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman