DRN-1413742
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2006 Mr G took out PPI at the same time as applying for and taking out a mortgage during 
a branch meeting. 
The policy provided protection for Mr G's mortgage payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 
12 months per claim and it cost around £40 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr G was employed, and he initially said he was entitled to sick pay of 
at least 12 months' pay. He said he wasn't sure about any savings he might've had, but that 
his parents were willing to guarantee his mortgage. He said he was in good health at the 
time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr G chose to take out the cover, and that he did so without undue pressure.  And there was 
nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr G disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr G's complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isn't the answer Mr G was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr G have a choice about PPI? 
Mr G says he was told that PPI was a condition of the mortgage - I've therefore considered 
this point carefully.
Lloyds has provided some paperwork from the time of the sale, including the mortgage 
application, PPI application and the mortgage offer letter.Firstly, looking at the mortgage application -  there's nothing here which refers to PPI, only 
house insurance. So nothing which I think might lead Mr G to think PPI was a compulsory 
element of the mortgage. Secondly Mr G signed a separate PPI application form and direct 
debit mandate to allow the premiums to be taken from his bank account. Because Mr G was 
asked to sign separately from the mortgage application itself, I'm not persuaded this 
would've given him the impression he had to take it out.
I can see Mr G says he signed the paperwork all at the same time, so when the mortgage 
was approved it made him believe it was only approved on the basis of him having the PPI.
I don't think it's unusual for the paperwork from a mortgage meeting to be signed on the 
same day. And Mr G's mortgage offer letter wasn't issued to him until several weeks later - 
and this is the formal mortgage approval document. Looking at this, PPI was referred to as 
being 'optional' and it was only buildings insurance, which was stated as being a requirement 
of the agreement to lend. Because this document was produced some time after Mr G's 
mortgage meeting, if what was stated here didn't accord with what he was told at the time, I 
might've expected him to have queried it with Lloyds. 
So, while I've listened to what Mr G has said about the sale, I've not seen enough to support 
what he says happened. I think the evidence suggests Lloyds did enough to demonstrate 
PPI was optional and that Mr G chose to take it out.
the advice
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr G - and the evidence it's provided supports this. 
This means Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Mr G  and based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he was eligible for the 
cover; he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those 
relating to existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and he seems 
to have had a need for the cover.
In submitting his complaint to us, Mr G said he would've received at least 12 months' sick 
pay. But given his employment circumstances I don't think this was likely - it's very unusual 
for employers to pay sickness benefits for this length of time. But in any event the PPI 
would've paid out alongside any sick pay entitlement and most likely for longer if necessary - 
up to 12 months per claim.
Mr G has told us the reason for taking out the mortgage was to buy out the joint party from 
the mortgaged property. So he was going to be solely responsible for the mortgage 
payments. In these circumstances I think the policy could've proved useful to Mr G had he 
found himself in the unfortunate position of not being able to /  being out of work.
Mr G says his parents were willing to act as guarantors for the mortgage. But Mr G was the 
sole named party to the mortgage - it wasn't a guarantor secured loan. And however well-
intentioned offerings of help from family are, they are not guaranteed - I certainly wouldn't 
have expected the adviser to have placed much if any weight on this when giving advice to 
Mr G about his protection needs.
So in light of Mr G's circumstances at the time, I don't think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended Mr G take out PPI.
 
the information  I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been - for example the evidence doesn't tell me how or when the cost of the policy 
was disclosed to Mr G or whether the significant exclusions and limits on the cover were 
clearly brought to his attention. But as I found above, I think he chose to take it out - so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. And as I also said above, I think it was suitable for 
him. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr G off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While Lloyds might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when 
it sold Mr G PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time I think PPI was suitable for him. 
Because of this, and because I don't think the policy operated fundamentally differently from 
what he expected based on what he was given at the time, I think Mr G would still have gone 
ahead and taken out PPI had Lloyds done anything more.
This means I dont think Mr G has lost out as a result of having PPI, so Lloyds doesn't have 
to pay back to Mr G what he paid for PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman