DRN-2243712
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS) did not correctly follow 
instructions to transfer cash to her new provider.  A sum of £87,016.90 was retained by ATS 
and not sent to the new provider.  As Mrs W did not have access to this cash for two years, 
she says that she suffered a financial disadvantage.
What happened
Mrs W was dealing with her late husbands estate and gave instructions to ATS to sell 
investments and transfer these to an investment account in her name with another provider 
who I will call Company B. ATS transferred a sum of £97,581.98 to Company B in June 
2017.  Due to an administrative error at ATS, the remaining sum of £87,016.90 was not 
transferred until April 2019.
Mrs W complained to ATS and said that she suffered a financial loss as the cash would have 
been invested by Company B and as markets had been favourable, she had missed out on 
investment growth had her cash been invested.
ATS investigated and upheld her complaint but they did not agree that they should 
compensate for any hypothetical investment growth.  ATS offered Mrs W £200 as a gesture 
of goodwill for the stress and inconvenience caused by the administrative error.  Mrs W did 
not accept this and referred the complaint to the service.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and spoke to ATS. They also spoke to 
Company B who said that as part of their review of Mrs Ws financial circumstances, return 
of cash to Mrs W was a sensible course of action to deal with potential inheritance tax 
liabilities. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ws complaint.  In dealing with what compensation was due to 
Mrs W, our investigator asked ATS to calculate returns based on the £87,106.90 being 
invested in a Bank of England fixed rate bond for the period that Mrs Ws cash was retained 
in error. ATS calculated this to be £1418.08 and interest of £334.12 was added. ATS also 
offered the initial £200 goodwill payment. The total compensation offered to Mrs W was 
£1952.20.
Mrs W rejected this offer and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 2 September 2020.  In my provisional 
decision I explained the reasons why I was upholding the complaint but suggested that 
compensation should be paid to Mrs W in a different way to that of our investigator.  I asked 
both parties to send me more evidence or information they wanted me to look at by 2 
October 2020.
Mrs W accepted my findings.
ATS did not dispute that the error occurred and they accepted my decision that 
compensation should be paid in a different manner to that of the investigator however they 
suggested a different timescale to the one I suggested.  I said:
Calculate and pay Mrs W an amount equal to 8% simple interest on the sum of £87,016.90 
for the period when it was retained in error (8 June 2017) to the date of my final decision.
ATS have said that they feel that a more appropriate time period that we should pay interest 
for is 8 June 2017 until 29 April 2019 - the period Mrs W was without her funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of the complaint are understood by all parties and ATS do not dispute that they 
made an error in not sending Mrs Ws cash to Company B.  I wont go over the detail on 
what happened and why the error was made.  The issue that I need to deal with in this 
decision is what compensation is reasonable.  
Mrs W says that her cash would have been invested in her discretionary investment account 
with Company B and as markets were favourable, this amount would have grown. This is a 
reasonable assumption to make if it could be proven that Company B would have invested 
her cash in investments that were suitable for her in the stock market. 
Company B was contacted to ask what happened to the initial amount that was sent by ATS 
and they said that this was returned to her in cash as they believed that Mrs W had 
inheritance tax liabilities which meant that her retaining cash was the best course of action. 
They also said that the sum of £87,016.90 would have been subject to the same advice and 
would have been returned as cash. 
What happened was that Company B returned cash from the initial transfer from ATS and 
proceeds from the sales of stock  this was around £150,000. When the cash arrived from 
the late transfer this was invested into her discretionary portfolio rather than being returned 
to Mrs W. As the portfolio with Company B is discretionary, they would have taken 
investment decisions which they deemed to be in Mrs Ws best interests at that time.  I will 
not seek to investigate why they invested the cash rather than take the same course of 
action and return it to Mrs W to mitigate her future inheritance tax liabilities.
Mrs W says in her complaint that the cash amounts would have been fully invested and 
subject to growth as markets were favourable.  It is not clear if Company B would have taken 
the same approach of investing had the £87,016.90 been received at the same time. As it 
stands, I can only consider what is fair and reasonable with the facts as they are known.
It is clear that Mrs W did not have access to her cash and this is not disputed by ATS.  Mrs 
W should be compensated for being deprived of her money for two years, but I think that it 
should be calculated in a different way than that chosen in the investigators view. 
We know that Company B advised her to withdraw cash to minimise some elements of 
future inheritance tax liabilities and did this by withdrawing around £150,000 in cash.  When 
the £87,016.90 was eventually paid by ATS to Company B it was invested into Mrs Ws ISA.  
As these investments were purchased into a discretionary portfolio, there is no way to tell if 
the same investments would have been purchased had the cash not been delayed as it 
depends on market conditions and Mrs Ws personal circumstances at the time.  As a result, 
I am unable to look for any financial disadvantage by comparing the price of these 
investments over the two periods.
In summary, Company B returned some of Mrs Ws cash to her and invested the cash that 
was delayed for two years. The stocks that they chose to invest may not have been the 
same stocks that they would have chosen had the cash been transferred together.  In fact, they may have taken a different investment approach and returned all the cash to Mrs W to 
mitigate any inheritance tax liabilities.
I have reviewed file notes provided by Company B and they give some indication of areas of 
expenditure that Mrs W may consider  these included gifts to her children and educational 
trusts but it is not clear what Mrs W spent the money on but Im not sure that this matters 
overall.  What I need to consider is what compensation is fair and reasonable for Mrs W 
being deprived of her funds for two years.
In general, when a consumer is deprived of funds, the service applies a rate of 8% interest to 
those funds, to compensate the consumer for the loss of use of that money.  This is for 
several reasons and isnt simply to replicate the notional return they might have received if 
they had saved the funds of invested them elsewhere. 
The investigators initial view was that Mrs W should be compensated by looking at the 
return of her cash being invested in a fixed rate bond. Although this is one of the ways that 
we might use to put things right Im not convinced that its appropriate here.
In my provisional decision I said 8% simple interest should be applied to the sum of 
£87,016.90 which they held for a period of two years.  I also said that the interest calculation 
should be applied from when the cash was retained in error (8 June 2017) to the date of my 
decision.  ATS felt that this date range was not appropriate and that simple interest should 
only be applied to the date range that Mrs W did not have her cash.  
I have considered what ATS have said but I dont agree that the calculation should end on 
the date that Mrs W received her cash.  As a result of their error, Mrs W had to take her 
complaint through their complaints process and although ATS upheld her complaint, she 
was dissatisfied with the offer of compensation.  Mrs W had to escalate her complaint to the 
service and this had to go through our internal process which involved an investigator 
reviewing the complaint and writing to both parties.  As both parties could not agree with the 
investigators view, it was forwarded to me for review.  The service generally calculates 
simple interest from the date of the error until the date of a decision and this is what I will ask 
ATS to do.
Putting things right
I require ATS to undertake the following actions:
Mrs W was deprived of her funds from 8 June 2017 to 29 April 2019. ATS to calculate 
the loss from 8 June 2017 to 29 April 2019 by applying 8% simple interest per annum to 
the sum of £87,016.90. This will produce a loss amount (A) to the time these funds were 
transferred to Mrs Ws account with her other provider.
To the loss amount A should then be added 8% simple interest per annum from 29 April 
2019 to the date of the ombudsmans decision. This ensures the loss amount is brought 
up to date.
Compensate Mrs W £300 as a gesture of goodwill for the stress and inconvenience 
caused by their error. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman