DRN-3140383
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Zenith Insurance plc unfairly declined to pay a claim on his 
bike insurance policy.
Reference to Zenith includes its agents.
What happened
Mr W discovered one morning that thieves had stolen his bike overnight. He rang the police 
to report the theft and also rang his insurance broker to tell them about it. A couple of days 
later he spoke with Zenith and ran through the details of the theft again  including where his 
bike had been at the time. 
Zenith looked into the claim further, including appointing investigators to interview Mr W. It 
also asked the police for a report of the incident. Eventually the police provided their report 
and Zenith followed that up with a direct question about what Mr W had said when initially 
reporting the crime.
Zenith then told Mr W that it was refusing to pay his claim. It said he had misrepresented the 
circumstances of the claim for financial gain and that it would add his details to a national 
fraud register.
Mr W was very unhappy with Zeniths handling of the matter and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think Zenith needed to take any further 
action. Mr W didn't agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Mr Ws policy has an endorsement which says that in order to be covered for theft when at 
his home address, his bike must be kept locked in a garage. So, if Mr Ws bike wasnt locked 
in his garage when the theft took place, then Zenith wouldn't cover his claim. 
Ive listened to the call during which Mr W reported the theft to his broker, which was around 
an hour after hed discovered it. In that call the broker asked Mr W where his bike was the 
last time he saw it. Mr W answered:
on my drive in front of my garage
The call handler asked if that was outside and Mr W replied:
yes very much so
So, Mr W was very clear in that call that his bike had been outside, on his drive, the last time 
he saw it. In other words it wasn't in his garage.
Similarly, Zenith asked the police to clarify what Mr W had told them in relation to where his 
bike had been when it was stolen. The police told Zenith theyd listened to the call and Mr W:
definitely states the motorcycle was stolen from an area directly outside his garage in the 
garden
So, in the two calls Mr W made, straight after discovering his bike had been stolen, he said 
that it had been taken from outside his garage and not from inside it. If thats correct then his 
policy wouldn't cover the theft.
But, a couple of days later, Mr W changed his account. And hes since consistently said the 
thieves had broken into his garage in order to steal his bike. Hes explained that hes hard of 
hearing and wasn't wearing his hearing aids when he spoke to the police and so may have 
misunderstood what they were asking him. Hes also told us that when he spoke with the 
police he had just woken up and was somewhat shocked. He said he made a mistake on 
the phone because of his hearing problem and was confused.
I've thought very carefully about Mr Ws explanation for his changing account of where he 
left his bike prior to the theft, but I don't find it persuasive. I appreciate Mr W is hard of 
hearing, but I've listened to his call with the broker. During that, he responds to all of the 
questions put to him clearly and without ever asking the broker to repeat anything. Theres 
certainly no indication, at any point, that he misunderstood the questions, and he answered 
confidently. So I'm not persuaded that Mr Ws hearing problem led him to make a mistake 
when giving information about the theft. 
During the call, the broker asked Mr W to confirm if his bike was outside (and so not in the 
garage) at the time of the theft, he said yes, very much so. But, if his bike had, in fact, been 
in the garage and thieves had broken into that in order to steal it, I can't think of any logical 
reason why Mr W would confirm his bike was outside, irrespective of the fact hes likely to 
have been shocked by the theft. 
I haven't heard Mr Ws call to the police to report the theft. But, in response to Zeniths 
enquiry, the police were very clear that Mr W had definitely said his bike was outside at the 
time. Mr Ws since said that he was telling the police that it was the cover for his bike which 
the thieves had left outside. But if that was the case, I don't think the police would have said 
he definitely  that is without doubt  told them that his bike, not its cover, had been outside 
at the time of the theft. And Mr W rang the police very soon after discovering the theft, when 
the circumstances of it were likely to have been fresh in his mind, So I think his initial 
account of what happened is more likely to be accurate rather than what he told Zenith some 
days later.
In those circumstances, it seems more likely than not, that Mr Ws bike was not in the garage 
when it was stolen. So, on balance, it seems equally as likely that Mr W changed his account 
of where the bike was. In those circumstances I think it was reasonable for Zenith to take the 
actions that it did in refusing to pay Mr Ws claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Joe ScottOmbudsman