DRN-4092540
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society wont write him a letter and they wont 
refund his call costs from ringing them while he was overseas.
What happened
Mr M says that he asked Nationwide to send him a letter to confirm that no attempt or funds 
had gone into his Nationwide account from his mobile phone insurance provider, as he was 
told by the third party that they attempted to pay money into his Nationwide account, but it 
was rejected by Nationwide, and it bounced back. But Nationwide refused to send him a 
letter with this information. He also says that he asked them to refund his call costs as he 
was ringing from overseas. Mr M made a complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said that sending the type of letter that Mr 
M asked them to send is not part of their process. They said they couldnt agree that there 
had been an excessive time spent on the telephone when he contacted them. Nationwide 
said that as they hadn't asked Mr M to call them and they were communicating through 
email as his preferred method of contact, they wouldn't look to cover any call costs he 
incurred by calling them from abroad. Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said it isnt the role of this service to 
ask a business to alter their policies or procedures. He said that it was Mr Ms decision to 
call Nationwide and that other free alternatives were available, so he didnt think that 
Nationwide should reimburse the call costs. Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained to Mr M, it is not the role of this service to ask a business 
to alter their policies or procedures such as their policy to not send the type of letter that Mr 
M wanted them to write. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct Nationwide to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
Nationwide told Mr M in their final response letter that We have searched for the payment 
and liaised with the Payments team but are unable to see any payments on the system that 
have bounced back to the sender. So Mr M may be able to provide this to the mobile phone 
insurance provider to help with his payment. But I cant say that Nationwide did anything 
wrong by not sending him a letter when he originally asked them to when this is not their 
process. 
Nationwide have confirmed to our service that their system does not show any returned 
payments and they can only see payments that are received. They confirmed that in this 
case they could not see the payment Mr M asked them about. So it doesnt appear that 
Nationwide rejected any attempt to make a payment to his account.
Ive considered what Mr M has said regarding Nationwide refunding his call costs when he 
rang them from overseas. But Im not persuaded that it would be proportionate for them to 
do so. I say this because Nationwides website shows a number of different ways which 
someone can contact them to make a complaint or to contact them. These alternatives 
include using the live chat facility or writing to them. 
So Im satisfied that there were low/no cost alternatives as opposed to giving them a phone 
call. As Mr M chose to ring them instead of contacting Nationwide via an alternative method, 
then it would not be proportionate for me to ask them to reimburse Mr Ms call costs. My 
understanding is that he spent 25 minutes on the phone with them when he initially logged 
his complaint. But I dont find 25 minutes on the phone as being unreasonable due to the 
time it would take to pass any verification needed, take the details from Mr M and submit the 
complaint. So it follows I dont require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman