DRN-4202183
The complaint
The estate of Mr E has complained that Bartholomew & James (Financial Services) Limited 
failed to correctly advise the late Mr E.
What happened
The background to this matter isnt in dispute. In summary the estate of Mr E says that when 
taking out a term assurance policy in 2019, Mr E should have been advised to write the 
policy in trust. Very sadly Mr E died in 2022, and the benefit was paid to his estate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She didnt conclude that 
Bartholomew & James had done anything wrong. The estate appealed.
The estate is represented by solicitors, but for simplicity I shall just refer to representations 
as being made by the estate.
I apologise for the time taken to reach this final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint - no discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Although I recognise that the estate of Mr E will be disappointed by my 
decision, for the following reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator:
Bartholomew & James needed to give clear, fair and not misleading information to 
Mr E so that he could make an informed choice as to whether to proceed. Having 
seen the product literature including Key Features document, illustrations and 
information about the application process Im satisfied that it did so.
The estate says that there should have been a demands and needs assessment. In 
non-advised sales the format of a statement of demands and needs is flexible and 
the regulations in force at the time stated it could include giving the customer a 
record of all his demands and needs that have been discussed. Im satisfied the 
adviser met this requirement in his letter to Mr E of 13 May 2019.
I dont find that Bartholomew & James gave Mr E advice  he was offered a financial 
review but declined this. Mr E wanted short term cover as his original life cover had 
come to an end. Bartholomew & James set out the options available to him. These 
met with Mr Es stated aims and he selected cover of £250,000 for a term of five 
years at a premium of £177.10. 
The estate believes advice was given and has quoted the Terms of Business 
document (dated 1 January 2013) which sets out the services that Bartholomew & 
James offered. It is not disputed that Bartholomew & James can offer financial advice 
 but there is no evidence that advice was requested by or given to Mr E.
I recognise that my decision will come as a disappointment to the estate, but in all the 
circumstances I dont find that Bartholomew & James did anything wrong. It provided 
Mr E quotes in accordance with his request. That doesnt constitute advice.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman