DRN-3376025
The complaint
Miss L complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans lent her money on 
high interest loans which she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Likely Loans provided the following loans to Miss L:
Date 
takenAmount Term Monthly 
repayment*Amount 
paid*Date 
repaid
Loan 
one03/04/17 £1,500.00 18
months£118 £829 16/10/17
Loan 
two13/10/17 £2,250.00 36
months£178.17 £4,645 22/03/18
*rounded up
Miss L said repaying the loans caused her many problems and she had to borrow more 
money on a regular basis. She said she was trapped in a desperate cycle of using high 
interest loan companies and should not have been given finance from Likely Loans. Most of
these loans were used to pay previous loans and due to the high rate charged and monthly 
payment amount she was forced to borrow again to live, buy food shopping and pay her 
basic bills. She said that Likely Loans should have obtained her bank statements at the time, 
and it would have seen she was unable to afford the loan. And it shouldnt have given her a 
top-up loan.
Likely Loans said that for each loan, it carried out a review of Miss Ls credit report. It verified 
her income for the first loan and accepted her statement concerning her income for the 
second loan. It didnt obtain bank statements in either case. It assessed in both cases that 
she was repaying her credit commitments regularly, and that she had a disposable income 
sufficient to pay both loans. It doesnt hold a physical credit report for the time of lending as it 
extracts data from the credit file. It has provided its Credit Risk Data overview, which it 
obtains on application. It has also supplied a credit report obtained at the point of the 
complaint in June 2021.
Miss L has supplied some details of the loans she had at the time of applying for the credit 
and details of subsequent loans and debts. Shes also supplied some credit card statements. 
We have asked her for bank statements but shes been unable to supply those.
Our adjudicator said in respect of both loans that, due to the amount that she borrowed, and 
the term of the loan taken, Likely Loans shouldve conducted further checks to assess her 
income and day to day expenditure to understand her financial situation better. However as 
Miss L was unable to supply her bank statements, our adjudicator couldnt say whether 
further checks would have revealed information about her circumstances to say whether the 
loans were affordable or not.
Miss L didnt agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss L would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ls ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Likely Loans had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Miss L undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).The loans were for a significant amount, over a long period. So Likely Loans should have 
carried out a thorough assessment of Miss Ls financial circumstances at the time of the 
applications.
Having said that the rules Ive referred to above dont forbid top-up loans, so long as the 
application for the new loan is considered thoroughly. The rules also dont require the lender 
to obtain bank statements, though it may do so if it considers this necessary. I appreciate 
that Miss L has sent in some evidence, including a credit card statement from June 2017 
and details of various loans. Its not in dispute that Miss L had credit liabilities at the time of 
applying for both loans, as Ill set out below.
loan one
Miss L had substantial total balances on credit cards, loans, and mail order of around 
£7,500. However the checks showed that she wasnt in default and had kept up repayments. 
If a minimum repayment for those balances of 5% was factored in this would have produced 
a monthly figure for her credit commitments of £373. Her net monthly income was £2,372. 
Allowing for the loan instalment (£118) and her mortgage payment (£417) this still would 
have left her with a disposable income of over £1,700 for other household expenses.
On the face of it the loan appeared to be easily affordable, nonetheless Miss L did have a 
substantial amount outstanding on credit cards. So whilst I think the checks done were 
proportionate, I think this should have alerted Likely Loans to carry out further checks. 
However from the information Miss L has sent us, Ive been unable to determine whether 
those further checks would have indicated to Likely Loans that the loan was unaffordable. So 
I cant uphold the complaint in respect of this loan.
loan two
As Ive set out above, for repeated financing in a top up loan, checks should be more 
thorough. Here Miss L had paid off the first loan within six months, apparently without any 
problems. Ive noted that Likely Loans didnt verify her income, although Miss L had said it 
had increased. This produced a revised monthly income of some £300 more. Miss Ls credit 
card commitments had gone up substantially. with total credit and loan debts of around 
£9,800. Nevertheless Likely Loans still assessed her disposable income after credit 
commitments, mortgage and its loan instalments to be around £1,700, taking into account 
her revised monthly income.
Again on the face of it the loan was affordable, But I think Likely Loans should have taken 
account of the increase in Miss Ls credit commitments, and her declared salary increase, 
and carried out further checks. But again I cant say what those further checks would have 
revealed about the affordability of the loan, so again I cant uphold the complaint about this 
loan.
As a final point I do appreciate that Miss L has taken out further loans and credit cards, has 
incurred other debts since these loans, and that her family circumstances are difficult for her.  
However I can only look at the information available to Likely Loans at the time she took out 
the loans in order to decide whether it made a fair lending decision.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman