DRN-3125671
The complaint
X complains that a mattress he bought using his Barclaycard (issued by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC) was not of satisfactory quality, but Barclaycard will not provide a refund. 
What happened
In September 2020 X bought a mattress online direct from the manufacturer. He paid 
£449.99 using his Barclaycard. The mattress was delivered to him within a few days. 
The terms of the sale included a 100 night trial. That is, subject to certain conditions, X could 
return the mattress within 100 nights if it was not suitable for his needs. It was the 
customers responsibility to keep track of the trial dates.
X contacted the manufacturer in January 2021 to say that he was not happy with the 
mattress. Specifically, it was not comfortable and it had triggered an allergic reaction in his 
son. The manufacturer responded however to say that he was outside the trial period and so 
it could not help. 
X referred the matter to Barclaycard, as the provider of the credit with which he had bought 
the mattress. It considered whether it could seek a refund under the chargeback scheme 
and whether X had a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
In respect of the former, Barclaycard said that the matter had been referred to it outside the 
relevant 120 day time limit. In respect of the latter, there was no evidence of any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the supplier.
X referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator did not however recommend that the complaint be upheld. X did 
not agree with his preliminary findings and asked that the case be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard did not of course supply X with the mattress. But, because X paid for the 
mattress with his Barclaycard, there are two ways in which Barclaycard might liable for any 
issues with the mattress  chargeback and section 75. Ill discuss each in turn. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is a scheme run by card schemes (in this case, VISA) by which certain card 
payments can be challenged. Time limits apply  in this case 120 from days from the 
payment. Barclaycard says the claim here was made outside the 120-day limit. I do not 
agree; it was made five days within the limit, so I have considered whether a chargeback 
claim should have been made. 
We generally take the view that, whilst there is no obligation on a card issuer to submit a 
chargeback request, it is good practice to do so where there is a reasonable prospect that it 
will succeed.     
One possible reason for challenging a payment is where goods are not received or are not 
as described. But I do not believe that it can fairly be said that the mattress delivered to X 
was not as described. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable of Barclaycard to 
decline to submit a chargeback request  albeit for different reasons from those it gave. 
Section 75 
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in this case is that, if X has a claim 
for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier of the mattress, he has a like 
claim against Barclaycard. 
A misrepresentation is a statement of fact or law made by one party to a contract which 
induces the other to enter into that contract. X has not alleged any such statements were 
made here, so I cannot properly conclude that he has a claim for misrepresentation. 
X does say however that the mattress is uncomfortable and triggers an allergic reaction in 
his son. And, after the investigator issued his preliminary view, he said too that it was 
shedding material. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the sale contract was to be read as including a term 
that the mattress would be of satisfactory quality  which includes fitness for purpose. 
X says that the mattress is not comfortable. That is, however, a subjective assessment and 
is not of itself a reason to conclude that it the mattress supplied was not of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. Other customers may have found it perfectly comfortable. 
I do not believe either that I can fairly say the mattress was not fit for purpose. An item is fit 
for purpose if it is fit for the purpose for which such items are usually supplied or for any 
other purpose the customer makes known to the supplier before the contract is made. X has 
not suggested that he told the supplier, for example, about any allergies his son had, and so 
I do not believe I can fairly say that the mattress was not fit for purpose  either generally or 
specifically. 
Whilst X has said that the mattress developed further faults after the investigator had 
considered the complaint, I have not seen anything to support that. 
Finally, I note that the mattress came with a 100-night trial period. X did not however suggest 
there was anything wrong with it or that he wanted to return it until after that period had 
expired. Had he wanted to return the mattress within that period, I have no reason to think 
that the supplier would not have accepted a return in line with the sale terms. X would not 
have had to show any fault with the mattress. But, since he did not take advantage of that 
opportunity, I do not believe it would be fair if I were to require Barclaycard to make a refund.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take 
any further steps to resolve Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman