DRN-2485933
The complaint
Mr N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to protect the maturity 
value of his endowment policy.
What happened
Mr N held an endowment policy with Aviva. Aviva wrote to Mr N in April 2020 informing him 
that the policy was nearing its maturity date and quoted an estimated value of £31,738.14. 
The letter said the value could go up or down, and the final maturity value would only be 
known on the day the policy matured.
When the policy did mature on 28 May 2020 Mr N only received £29,457.56. Mr N was 
unhappy and complained, he felt he should be paid the originally quoted sum.
Aviva disagreed, it said that due to the change in market conditions itd implemented an ad-
hoc bonus rate review, which resulted in a reduction in policy pay outs. Aviva explained the 
quote previously given was only an estimate, and it would not be paying the difference.
Our investigator felt Aviva had acted fairly, that the previous value quoted was only an 
estimate, and that Aviva had made this clear.
Mr N disagreed. He explained that at the time he received Avivas letter in April 2020 he had 
bilateral cataracts which significantly impaired his ability to read the letter. He also felt the 
letter was not prominent enough to draw his attention to the fact the value could change  
and that the same standard explanation had been included in all the correspondence hed 
received to date.
Mr N felt Aviva shouldve foreseen the impact the Covid-19 pandemic would have on the 
markets and therefore avoid any significant losses. He felt that as the market supposedly 
recovered between April and May of the same year, his payment should have reflected this. 
Mr N said he took it on good faith that the amount quoted would be the minimum hed 
receive and felt Aviva had a duty of care to let him know otherwise.
He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for mostly the 
same reasons. I wont comment on everything that Mr N has said, but Id like to reassure him 
that Ive looked at everything hes submitted. If I dont mention a specific point its not 
because Ive not thought about it, its simply because I dont think I need to comment on it to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N feels strongly that Aviva hasnt done enough to protect his financial interests as hes 
been left with less money than he expected to receive. But its important to highlight that the 
projected value given was only ever an estimate  not money which has been taken away 
from Mr Ns plan. The value quoted was only ever an estimated value Aviva anticipated it 
could achieve. It was never money that was taken away as his policy approached its 
maturity date. The anticipated value simply dropped as a result of the market conditions at 
the time.
Aviva has said the main reason for the fall in value was due to the market downturn in 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. I understand Mr N would like more detail as to how this 
was the case and is dissatisfied with the reasons given for why an ad-hoc bonus review took 
place. However, I wouldnt have expected Aviva to have disclosed the complex breakdowns 
of its actuarial calculations to Mr N, as this is commercially sensitive information. It depends 
on several factors  from the cost of running the fund to the necessity of smoothing 
bonuses (keeping back some of the profits from years where returns were high to improve 
payments where returns are low). I think the reason provided was a fair enough explanation 
and Im satisfied Aviva provided adequate detail as to why the maturity value differed from 
previous expectations.
Whilst Mr N believes that Aviva shouldve responded sooner to the change in market 
conditions, Ive seen nothing to suggest this loss in value was a result of any negligence on 
Avivas part. Billions were wiped off the stock market in response to the Covid-19 pandemic 
and this sadly impacted a great number of investments and investors across the market.
Mr N feels Aviva shouldve anticipated and prevented the impact this event has caused. And 
Im satisfied that to a certain extent its done so. Avivas smoothing has helped to mitigate 
some of the impact and lessened the effects for Mr N. I dont think it would be a fair or 
realistic expectation to expect all impact to be mitigated in this unprecedented circumstance. 
Most investments carry some element of risk and events such as the Covid-19 pandemic are 
just one of the many factors which meant that performance could never be fully guaranteed 
for Mr Ns policy.
I understand Mr N did not pay close attention to the letter received in April 2020 because he 
didnt feel the warning was made prominent enough. But Im satisfied the estimated nature of 
the value quoted was made clear in the letter he received, as well as the fact that the value 
could go up or down. I say this because the value quoted was labelled as the estimated 
maturity value and there was a whole section of the letter dedicated to explaining why the 
value was only an estimate. Although Aviva said the plan was estimated to be valued at 
£31,738.14, they werent obligated to pay that amount  only the actual value at maturity.
At the time he received this letter Mr N has explained he had bilateral cataracts which 
prevented him from reading it in detail. I can appreciate this would have been a difficult time 
for Mr N, but Ive not received anything to suggest that he informed Aviva of this or that he 
asked Aviva to communicate with him in a different manner. If Mr N needed assistance with 
reading the letter, Aviva couldve been contacted and given the opportunity to assist further, 
but I cant see this was done. Im satisfied Aviva fairly and clearly communicated the 
estimated nature of the values Mr N was quoted before the policy matured.
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay the difference between the 
amount Mr N was told the plan was estimated to be worth and the amount he received at 
maturity, as I cant say that Aviva has acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman