DRN-4204870
The complaint
Mr P complains that Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow (Novaloans) has incorrectly 
defaulted his loan account. To put things right Mr P wants the default removed. 
 
What happened
The default has been recorded in connection with a £600 loan advanced on 21 May 2021.  
Mr M was due to make six monthly payments of £174.94. Mr M has had problems repaying 
this loan and based on the most recent evidence Mr P is making monthly repayments 
towards the balance through an informal repayment plan. 
In May 2022, Novaloans recorded a default on Mr Ps credit file in relation to the above loan. 
However, following a different complaint that he raised, this default was then removed from 
his credit file because the correct notice wasnt sent to him. 
However, on 7 September 2022 a default notice was issued to Mr P which explained the 
action he needed to take within 14 days. And on 12 September 2022, Mr P emailed 
Novaloans letting it know about his current financial situation and offered to pay £25 per 
month. He did this to prevent the default from being applied. 
He also spoke to a member of staff on 20 September 2022, where a payment plan was set 
up. Mr P says on this call, he was told that as he had set up a payment plan the default 
wouldnt be recorded with the credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
Mr P then made a new complaint  the one this decision deals with - on 6 October 2022 
because a new default had been added to his credit file. 
Novaloans responded with its final response letter on the same day. It said the default notice 
was issued due to persistent arrears, and the default notice made clear that all the arrears 
needed to have been fully repaid by 21 September 2022 otherwise a default would be 
recorded with the CRAs. 
However, it did say, that it had listened to the call that Mr P had with the adviser  on 
20 September 2022, and it agreed that Mr P was given incorrect information  that setting up 
a repayment plan would prevent the default. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr P £50 by 
way of apology.  
Unhappy with this offer, Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. He concluded 
Novaloans hadnt made an error when it defaulted the account. He also thought the £50 
payment offered by it as a way of apology was fair and reasonable. 
Mr P said he didnt agree and Ive summarised his response below:
Novaloans kept applying and then removing a default from his credit file. 
Mr P had a payment plan in place which he has stuck to. 
On the day Mr P received the default notice he contacted Novaloans to arrange a 
repayment plan for £25 per month. 
Mr P doesnt consider hes been treated fairly.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
I appreciate there was a previous issue where Novaloans recorded a default on Mr Ps credit 
file in May 2022. Novaloans has said this was removed due to no default notice being 
issued. I only mention this here for context for this decision and I make no finding of award 
about that issue because Mr Ps complaint is concerned about the default applied in 
September 2022. 
The first thing I have considered is whether Novaloans was even in a position to issue a 
default notice at the time. Ive considered the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
guidance entitled Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and
Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This document provides guidance to banks and 
other lenders as to when a default or arrears can or cant be reported to the CRA and I 
consider this guidance to be good industry practice. Principle four of the guidance says:
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of 
an arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken 
down. 
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears.
So, clearly, given the loan was granted in May 2021, with the expectation it would be repaid 
by November 2021, the account was sufficiently in arrears for Novaloans to have issued the 
default notice in September 2022. And I can see from the payment history and the contact 
notes that there were periods of time where Mr P didnt make payments  either 
contractually or in previously set up repayment plans. 
Mr P has been clear to Novaloans why he hasnt been able to maintain contractual 
repayments, and Im sorry to have read those reasons. But that wouldnt have prevented 
Novaloans from recording arrears on the credit file or have prevented the default notice from 
being issued. I then gone on to consider what the default notice said and whether it complied 
with the regulations. 
Ive been provided with a copy of the default notice that was sent to Mr P on 
7 September 2022. Ive considered its content as well as Section 88 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 because this Section provides details of what a default notice must contain. The 
key part is the section is outlined below. 
Contents and effect of default notice.
(1)The default notice must be in the prescribed form and specify
(a)the nature of the alleged breach;(b)if the breach is capable of remedy, what action is required to remedy it and the 
date before which that action is to be taken;
(c)if the breach is not capable of remedy, the sum (if any) required to be paid as 
compensation for the breach, and the date before which it is to be paid.
In addition, to providing the above, Novaloans was also required to provide at least 14 days 
for Mr P to remedy the breach  and the default notice sent to him provided that time. 
Turning to the actual notice that was sent to Mr P. The default notice explained what the 
breach was  that Mr P had arrears of £279.90 and section 2 of the notice also said 
Immediate action is required to remedy this breach. You are required to pay us the 
total amount of arrears outstanding by 21/09/2022.
Novaloans, as required by the regulations, set out the breach and what actions Mr P needed 
to take before the 21 September 2022 to prevent a default being applied. Mr P wasnt being 
asked to set up a repayment plan, he was being asked to pay £279.90 and if he didnt do so 
then Novaloans would apply the default to the CRAs. This information was also relayed to 
Mr P in an email to him from Novaloans on 7 September 2022. 
So, Im satisfied the account was sufficiently in arrears  as defined by the ICO for a default 
notice to be issued. The default notice also contained everything that it needed to contain to 
enable Mr P to remedy the situation by the deadline. And as Mr P didnt clear the arrears by 
the deadline it was reasonable of Novaloans to report the default with the CRAs. 
However, Novaloans accepts he was given incorrect information on the phone call on 20 
September 2022. Mr P ought to have been told on that call that a payment plan wasnt 
sufficient at this stage, due to the arrears and if Mr P did set up an arrangement then a 
default would still be recorded. 
Whereas, what actually appears to have happened is Mr P was told the payment plan of £25 
per month would be enough to prevent the account from defaulting. But that information was 
contrary to what was contained within the default notice and the email form Novaloans.  Im 
also not persuaded given Mr P needed a repayment plan that had the agent told him the 
correct information then he wouldve been able to have paid the arrears, in full, by the 
deadline. 
I therefore dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Novaloans issuing a default notice or 
applying a default to his credit file. But Mr P was mis-advised and for that Novaloans offered 
a payment of £50. Novaloans should, if it hasnt already done so arrange to pay Mr P this 
sum, and I consider this offer to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about the default 
notice being applied. And if Novaloans Ltd trading as cash4unow hasnt already done so, it 
should pay Mr P the £50 compensation it offered in the final response letter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman