DRN-1694006
 
The complaint
Ms J complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt tell her that closing her credit card 
account would have an impact on the benefits she was getting on her current account.
What happened
Ms J had two accounts with Santander  a 123 current account and a credit card. The 123 
current account pays interest and cashback for which one of the conditions is that there are 
at least two direct debits set up on the account. Ms J had two direct debits set up, one of 
which was to pay her credit card. 
Ms J decided she no longer required the credit card and made an appointment to cancel it in 
branch. At that meeting Ms J was not told that by closing the credit card account, the direct 
debit on the 123 current account would also be cancelled. This left Ms J with only one direct 
debit on her account meaning that the account would no longer qualify for the interest or 
cashback. 
Ms J complained to Santander. In November 2019 the bank issued a written response 
saying that they felt that at the point of opening her account Ms J would have been made 
aware of the terms and conditions of the account. Since Ms J cancelled her credit card and 
associated direct debit her account was no longer eligible for the interest and cashback as 
per the terms and conditions. 
Ms J referred her complaint to us. Our investigator was satisfied that Santander had 
adequately explained the terms and conditions of the account when the account was 
opened. She thought Santander did enough to alert Ms J to the situation by monthly 
statements which showed that the account was earning no interest and what needed to be 
done to start earning interest again. The investigator recognised that it would have been 
helpful for the branch advisor to explain that the 123 account would now no longer have the 
two qualifying direct debits on it. However, the appointment was to discuss the credit card. 
So the investigator felt that unless Ms J had specifically asked a question about the current 
account, Santander hadnt done anything wrong in not raising it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold the complaint. I appreciate that my decision will 
be disappointing for Ms J but I hope that my explanation below will assist in understanding 
the reasons for the decision. 
Whilst I appreciate that Ms J would have liked the advisor in branch to explain that by 
cancelling the credit card it would only leave one direct debit on the current account; it 
appears that the purpose of the meeting was to cancel the credit card. I dont think it was 
reasonable to expect that the advisor would be aware of how many direct debits were on the 
current account  though Ms J would have known. But it was reasonable for Santander to 
expect Ms J to understand that if she closed her credit card, then the corresponding direct 
debit would be cancelled. 
The bank statements from the point at which the credit card was cancelled clearly show that 
there was no interest paid on the account. The statements also make clear that to receive 
cashback and interest you must pay in at least £500 a month and have a minimum of two 
active direct debits. I note Ms Js comment that she did not receive paper statements and 
that her husband checked the accounts online. But thats not the same as saying she 
couldnt have known. The bank has made the information available to Ms J on account 
opening through the terms and conditions and more specifically the key facts statement. The 
information is then provided again on a monthly basis. I dont consider it was a failing on 
Santanders part if Ms J didnt appreciate the full impact of her decision to close her credit 
card account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am unable to uphold Ms Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman