The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that SOFOLOGY LIMITED mis-sold them a sofa insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2015 Mr R purchased a sofa from a Sofology store. He was also sold a five-year 
Premier Care policy to protect it, and both him and Mrs R were named as policyholders on 
this insurance. The policy documentation was then sent to Mr and Mrs R on 17 July 2015 
after their sofa had been delivered.
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs R made a claim under the policy because the colour of their sofa 
had faded. The insurer declined this because it said the policy doesnt provide cover for 
changes in colour, unless its caused by a stain. And it said the damage caused to Mr and 
Mrs Rs sofa had instead happened over time.
Mr and Mrs R then complained to Sofology, saying the policy had been mis-sold to them. 
They said because they have pets, they made sure they confirmed everything would be 
covered  including damage caused by wear and tear. So they were dissatisfied to later 
learn that this wasnt the case and say they wouldnt have bought the policy had they known 
this.
They also complained that Sofology had failed to correctly handle a subject access request 
(SAR). They said some emails and calls were missing from the information theyd received. 
And they also thought that Sofology had amended the certificate of insurance to add Mrs Rs 
name onto the policy at a later date.
Sofology didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. It disagreed that they wouldve been told 
the policy covered them for wear and tear. And it said that following delivery of the furniture, 
Mr and Mrs R received a certificate of insurance from the policy provider which included full 
details of the terms and conditions. 
It said this document explained they had 14 days in which to cancel the agreement if they 
didnt think the policy was suitable for them. As they didnt cancel it, Sofology thinks Mr and 
Mr R mustve been happy with the cover the policy provided.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with Sofologys response and so they complained to this 
service. One of our investigators looked into the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said it wasnt unusual for insurance policies to exclude damage for wear and tear. And she 
didnt have enough evidence to say Mr and Mrs R were told it would be covered at the point 
of sale. 
She also couldnt confirm whether information was missing from the SAR. But she concluded 
that even if it was, she didnt think Mr and Mrs R had been disadvantaged by this. And as the 
DRN-1188165insurance certificate is provided by the insurer and not Sofology, she thought it was unlikely 
that it had amended any information on it.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigators findings, so the case has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R dont dispute that the damage caused to their sofa happened as a result of 
wear and tear. But theyve said Sofology incorrectly told them that damage of this nature 
would be covered under the policy. 
Sofology has explained it sold this policy on an information only basis; meaning it didnt give 
advice. It said it didnt provide Mr and Mrs R with any documentation other than the terms 
and conditions of the policy. And its sent us a copy of the policy terms that it says wouldve 
been seen at the point of sale.
Although it didnt give advice, as the seller of the policy, Sofology was required to provide Mr 
and Mrs R with information that was clear, fair and not misleading to enable them to make 
an informed decision about whether to take it. So Ive looked at the information I have 
available to decide whether its more likely than not that it did this.
The initial sale of the policy happened during a face to face meeting. I have no written record 
of what was discussed during this conversation. So while Ive taken on board what Mr and 
Mrs R say they were told, theres no way to establish exactly what was said by either party at 
the point of sale. So I have to rely on the information and evidence that is available to me.
Looking at the documents provided, the certificate of insurance that was sent to Mr and Mrs 
R in July 2015 sets out the names of the policy holders, dates of cover, the items of furniture 
the policy covers and the terms and conditions of the policy. And within the policy terms, 
theres a heading in bold capital letters which is titled; what is not covered. And under this it 
goes on to say: Any damage resulting from wear and tear. The words wear and tear are 
also in bold. Im satisfied the wording around this exclusion is clear.
I think its reasonable to expect that Mr and Mrs R shouldve checked the documents they 
received to ensure they were consistent with the policy they thought they were buying. And if 
they found this not to be the case, the terms and conditions also go on to say that the policy 
could be cancelled within 14 days of receiving the insurance certificate.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs R had enough information about the policy to 
know what it covered them for and what was excluded under it. And they had an option to 
cancel the policy if they were unhappy with anything. As they didnt do this, Im persuaded 
they were satisfied with the policy that was sold to them.
After careful consideration, Im not persuaded that Sofology mis-led Mr and Mrs R or gave 
them unclear information about the policy. So on balance of the information available, Im 
satisfied the policy wasnt mis-sold, and it follows I wont be asking Sofology to do anything 
further.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Rs comments  including what theyve said about Sofology 
amending documents, and not handling their SAR correctly. From what Ive seen, the certificate of insurance issued in 2015 was sent to the correct 
address for Mr and Mrs R, and was addressed to them both. This seems to evidence the fact 
the policy was in both of their names when it was taken out. And so Im persuaded Mrs R 
was on the policy from the beginning without any later amendments from Sofology. And Mr 
and Mrs R couldve queried this back in 2015 if they had any issues.
In relation to their information request, I want to be clear that its not our role to decide if a 
business has breached data protection laws. This is instead for the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide.
From what Ive seen Sofology has answered the questions Mr and Mrs R had and says its 
sent over all of the information it has in line with this request. In any case, based on what Ive 
seen and what theyve told us, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs R have been caused any 
detriment by this even if information was missing. So these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman