DRN-2947689
Complaint
Ms B has complained about her Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) overdraft, Amongst other things, 
shes said that Lloyds unfairly continued applying charges to her overdraft when she was in 
financial difficulty and even when she stopped using the account.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
that Ms Bs overdraft had become unsustainable for her by February 2015 and so it needed 
to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to the overdraft from this point. 
Lloyds didnt respond to our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Ms Bs overdraft 
in February 2015. 
A look at Ms Bs statements in the period leading up to the renewal shows that she regularly 
had returned direct debits and didnt have a credit balance on her account. Ms Bs 
statements also show that she was in some kind of debt collection arrangement as she was 
making payments to a third-party debt management company. 
In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Ms B was struggling and she 
was unlikely to repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time with overdraft 
interest, fees and associated charges being added. So Lloyds should have stopped 
providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Ms B with forbearance rather than 
adding even more fees and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that Lloyds should have realised that Ms B was experiencing financial 
difficulty, wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Ms Bs overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when 
she was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Ms B lost out because of what Lloyds 
did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Ms B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Bs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Bs overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from February 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Ms B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Bs credit file, it 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in February 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds should remove any 
adverse information from Ms Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
If Lloyds sold any outstanding balance on this account to a third-party debt purchaser, it will 
need to either buy the account back from the third-party and make the necessary 
adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the necessary 
adjustments, or pay Ms B an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman