DRN-3520384
The complaint
Mr R complained because Monzo Bank Limited refused to refund him for transactions which 
he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 17 May 2021, there was a credit to Mr Rs account for £7,665. The same day there was a 
debit to a cryptocurrency organisation for £1,076.35.
The next day, 18 May, Mr R carried out various small transactions. In the evening there were 
two more transactions to the cryptocurrency organisation, one for £1,184.38 and one for 
£216.61. 
On 19 May, Mr R contacted Monzo to dispute all three payments to the cryptocurrency 
organisation. He had difficulty getting through, and said hed been on hold for 20 minutes 
and then the line cut off. 
By chat, Mr R told Monzo that he thought someone might have had access to his phone, and 
knew his PIN. He said there are a lot of scams these days. He asked Monzo for his money 
back and said he hadnt made the transactions.
Mr R told Monzo that his girlfriend and his brother had access, and other people might have 
seen his bank card. Monzo refused to refund Mr R. It said the decision was based on the 
fact that the transactions had been authorised using 3DS verification. That needed access to 
Mr Rs Monzo account on his phone. And hed told Monzo that was still in his possession, so 
it wasnt possible for the transactions to have been authorised by anyone else. Monzo said 
that if Mr R wanted to contact the merchant himself, if could provide the information it would 
need to investigate.
And Monzo also said that under the terms and conditions, it had the right to close an account 
at any time. Mr Rs account would be closed on 24 May, which would give Mr R time to 
move out all remaining money from the account.
Mr R asked why Monzo couldnt refund him, and said it was a fraud. Monzo said it had 
already reviewed the claim and couldnt give him a refund. Mr R wasnt happy and said that 
Monzo should refund him by law, and he never knew this would be the outcome.
Monzos final response letter on 1 June didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint about the disputed 
transactions. It repeated that the transactions had been authorised using 3DS verification, 
which required access to his Monzo account on his phone, which hed told Monzo he still 
had in his possession. So it wasnt possible for the transactions to have been authorised by 
anyone else. Monzo did accept that Mr R had had difficulty contacting Monzo by phone, and 
paid him £25 as an apology.
On 8 June, Mr R told Monzo that hed made a mistake when answering yes when Monzo 
had asked him if he still had his phone. He said he hadnt had access to his mobile phone, 
and hed only said so because hed been worried about the transactions. But Monzo didnt 
change its mind.  And it closed Mr Rs account immediately on 9 June.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. He said he hadnt approved the payments 
on his mobile banking app. He said Monzo shouldnt approve large payments without 
sending a text message to the customers phone for approval. He said anyone could sign in 
to your mobile banking app and make payments. He also said he only used Monzo for small 
shopping on the way to university or his part-time job. Mr R said this was causing him 
depression and lack of sleep. He asked for a refund of the total £2,477.34.
Mr R also told our investigator that his family members wouldnt access his phone, and he 
understood the terms and conditions of the account about not sharing details. He said he 
was sure his household wouldnt make payments without his permission. He explained that 
he lived with his parents and they didnt speak or understand English  so for them to access 
his phone was impossible.
Mr R also said hed previously mentioned that his girlfriend had access to his accounts, but 
he trusted her wholeheartedly. He said his brother also knew his passcode but would access 
his confidential belongings. And he said he had his Monzo mobile banking app details saved 
on his phone notes, but wouldnt share it with anyone. He explained that he normally logged 
in using face ID, or his six digit PIN. He said hed never used his Monzo card for any 
purchases more than £100. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She noted that Mr R had said that in the 21st 
century it was possible to anyone to gain access to your mobile banking app, by getting 
access to your username, password and account details.  But the investigator said that as IT 
systems had become more sophisticated it was possible to tell exactly which device was 
used to make the disputed payments  which Monzo had sent to us. This showed that no 
device other than Mr Rs had been used for the disputed payments.
The investigator also said that Mr Rs bank statements showed that it wasnt correct that 
hed never used the account for payments over £100. Monzo had sent us these, and they 
didnt show what Mr R had said. And they also showed a history of purchasing 
cryptocurrency. The investigator also thought £25 was fair for Mr Rs difficulty getting 
through to Monzo.
 
Mr R didnt agree. He said hed said many times that he hadnt authorised the transactions 
himself, and it wasnt acceptable that Monzo had said the transactions had been confirmed 
by 3DS. He asked to see the evidence Monzo had provided to this service. He said Monzos 
decision had caused him health difficulties and if necessary he would take Monzo to court. 
He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for these 
disputed transactions are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the 
bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if he 
did authorise them. The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for 
unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep 
their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.So Ive looked at the available evidence to decide whether its more likely than not that Mr R 
authorised the three disputed payments.
Monzo provided us with computer evidence about the payments. It also explained that in 
order to log into an account, the customer would need access to the linked email address. A 
login link is sent to the registered email address, and when that link is used, the Monzo apps 
is opened. This then requires the customers PIN (personal identification number) which the 
customer chose for themselves when opening the account. So whoever carried out the 
transactions would have needed Mr Rs device, access to his email, and would have had to 
know his PIN.
The evidence also shows that only one device accessed Mr Rs account during this time. 
That device was also used for the other, undisputed payments. It was also the device which 
transferred Mr Rs remaining balance to his account with another bank, after Monzo told Mr 
R it was closing his account and hed need to move his remaining balance. So the device 
used for the disputed transactions was Mr Rs device.
Mr R initially told Monzo that he still had his phone. He changed this after Monzo issued its 
final response letter, and instead said he hadnt had access at the time of the disputed 
transactions, and hed given the wrong information because hed been worried about the 
transactions. 
But there are undisputed transactions around this time  such as a pharmacy transaction 
between the first and second disputed transactions. So anyone else using Mr Rs phone for 
the disputed transactions would have had to take it and use it, return it to him, take it again, 
and return it again, all without Mr Rs knowledge. Hes certain that none of his family carried 
out the transactions. But its hard to see how any unknown third party could have obtained 
the phone and returned it twice, without Mr Rs knowledge. 
Mr R said that he believes anyone can sign in to your mobile banking app and make 
payments. But there are computer safeguards designed to prevent that. 3D Secure (3DS) is 
a way of increasing security by requiring a customer to complete an extra verification step 
when paying. Different methods are used, and it doesnt have to be confirmation by text 
message, as Mr R says it should be. Ive seen evidence from Monzos computer records 
which shows that 3DS was used to verify all three disputed transactions. 
Mr R also told us that his bank statements would show hed only made transactions at 
restaurants or coffee shops and some retail stores. He said hed never used the card for 
purchases about £100, so why would he make purchases over £1,000?  But this isnt what 
his bank statements show. Certainly there are some small food purchase payments. But 
there are also larger transactions. These include a payment on 12 May 2021 for £348.10. 
And this payment, which Mr R didnt dispute, was to buy cryptocurrency. It was a purchase 
from a different cryptocurrency business than the three disputed ones. But it was still a 
payment which was for over £100 and was to buy cryptocurrency, just like the three disputed 
ones. 
Taking all this evidence into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr R authorised 
the disputed payments himself.
Ive also considered the compensation which Monzo paid Mr R for the difficulties getting 
through. I find that £25 was fair and reasonable for this.
When Mr R sent us his complaint form, he didnt mention Monzos closure of his account 
after the discussions he had with them about the disputed transactions. I also cant see that 
he complained about that to Monzo. But for completeness, Id confirm that under the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account, it did have the authority to close Mr Rs account in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman