DRN-3199972
The complaint
Ms J and Mr T complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim against their
travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in full. In summary, in February 2020, Ms J and Mr T bought a single trip travel
insurance policy. The underwriter is Great Lakes and the policy is under the Post Office
brand. The policy covered a European multi-city honeymoon with intended departure
and return dates of 8 April 2020 and 16 April 2020 respectively. The policy included the
additional option of Enhanced Trip Disruption.
On 10 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)
advised against all but essential travel to one of Ms J and Mr Ts destination countries.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a
pandemic. In mid-March 2020, the countries Ms J and Mr T intended to visit had border
restrictions and the airlines cancelled their flights. On 16 March 2020, the UK
government said that the public should stop all unnecessary travel and on
17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel abroad. That advice
remained in place at the time of Ms J and Mr Ts planned departure.
On 19 March 2020, Ms J and Mr T made a claim against their policy in relation to
unrecoverable accommodation costs. Great Lakes declined Ms J and Mr Ts claim. It
said that the policy didnt cover what happened here as Ms J and Mr Ts intended
departure wasnt within seven days of WHOs declaration that Covid-19 was a pandemic,
as required by the policy.
Ms J and Mr T say that they had to cancel their trip because of the cancellation of their
flights. They say that their claim is covered under the policy as their departure was
delayed by a natural catastrophe. They want Great Lakes to pay their claim and to waive
the excess due under the policy as compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
Ms J and Mr T also want additional compensation for the delay in settling their claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that Great Lakes 
should deal with Ms J and Mr Ts claim. The investigator said that whilst what happened 
here isnt covered by the policy, in the particular circumstances of this case, the terms 
dont produce a fair result. Thats because the policy wouldnt cover Ms J and Mr T if 
they followed the FCDO advice nor if they ignored that advice and travelled anyway.
Great Lakes didnt agree with the investigator and responded at some length, which I 
wont set out in full here. In summary, Great Lakes said:
It would be unreasonable and irresponsible for their policies not to contain an 
exclusion in relation to travel against FCDO advice.
The policy is clear in relation to the risks it covers for cancellation.
Its general position is that it will cover non covid-19 claims where the travel is 
against FCDO advice.
The investigators recommendation is for it to cover a risk that was deliberately 
omitted.
The omission of the risk was deliberate and reflected in the price.
The covered risks are targeted towards cover for events that may happen to 
individuals, not mass population events.
This service is effectively determining the risks it must underwrite, even when 
those risks are contrary to the product and pricing strategy.
All travel insurance terms and conditions contain general exclusions.
Insurers have to be comfortable that they are dealing with managed risks.
The cause of the claim was the UK governments statement on 23 March 2020 
and subsequent regulations.
The cancellation section of the policy includes an exclusion in relation to 
prohibitive regulations by a government or government actions.
Ms J and Mr T cancelled their trip as the airlines cancelled their flights, not 
because their policy excludes cover for travelling against FCDO advice.
A recent Supreme Court case found that the governments declaration on   
16 March 2020 in relation to non-essential travel had the force of law. That 
declaration was the proximate cause of the claim. Events after that date are
irrelevant. So, the exclusion relating to prohibition or government action must 
prevail.
Great Lakes asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision
On 9 November 2021, I sent the parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint but for different reasons than had been explained 
before. I said:
the relevant documentation
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) in this case. An IPID is designed to give consumers a summary of certain 
information about a policy in a way that is easy to understand. This includes excluded risks.
The IPID Great Lakes has provided as relating to Ms J and Mr Ts policy says:
There is no cover to travel to a country or region where the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) has advised against travel.
The terms and conditions of the policy provide cover for non-refundable travel and 
accommodation costs on cancellation following certain specified events. The insured events listed in section A of the policy dont apply here. But Ms J and Mr T had Enhanced Trip 
Disruption cover which extends the cover and provides as follows:
Section P - Enhanced Trip Disruption Following Terrorism or Natural Catastrophe 
Event
Section PI - Abandonment Before You Start Your Trip
Please refer to Section A Cancellation or Curtailment as this section forms the basis of 
cover. If You have purchased this upgrade, "What is covered" under Section A is 
extended to include the following:
If a Natural Catastrophe [] delays Your departure from the UK for at least 24 hours from 
the start of your trip, You can claim up to the amount in the Schedule of Benefits for pre-
paid transportation and accommodation costs, paid or contracted to be paid (and are not 
recoverable from any other source).
If a Natural Catastrophe [] occurs within 20km of your Arrival Point or Your pre-booked 
accommodation abroad and the start of your trip is within 7 days from the Event Start Date, 
You may be able to claim up to the amount in the Schedule of Benefits for [] pre-paid 
transportation and accommodation costs, paid or contracted to be paid (and are not 
recoverable from any other source)
The definitions in section P include the following:
Natural Catastrophe  Pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation []
Event Start Date  The point in time when the Natural Catastrophe [] occurred as 
reported in the media. This point in time will be set at Our discretion.
The policy excludes certain claims as follows: 
Section A  Cancellation or Curtailment
[]
What is not covered: 
[]
o) prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment of the 
booked Trip due to government action.
[]
s) anything mentioned in the General Exclusions
The general exclusions include the following:
General Exclusion Applying To Your 
Policy No section of this policy shall apply in 
respect of []
22. Any claim arising from You travelling to a country or specific area or event to which 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office [] or the World Health Organisation [] has 
advised the public not to travel.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a duty to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im aware that Mr T has asked to speak with the ombudsman considering the complaint. I 
dont think thats necessary. Ms J and Mr T have articulated clearly why they dont think 
theyve been treated fairly. In addition, we offer an informal, impartial service and it wouldnt be fair to speak with Mr T without Great Lakes having the same opportunity. I 
have all the information I need to decide this particular complaint.
Mr T has asked whether, if his complaint is upheld, wed apply the same outcome to 
other consumers in his position. Each case is decided on its own facts and merits. This 
service isnt the regulator and we cant direct Great Lakes generally about how it 
conducts its business or deals with other complaints. Having said that, wed expect a 
business to take final decisions into account in dealing with future complaints on the 
same issue.
I dont think that Great Lakes treated Ms J and Mr T fairly and reasonably in declining 
their claim. Ill explain why.
What happened here comes within the definition of a Natural Catastrophe in 
the policy, which includes a pandemic declared by WHO. The Event Start Date 
is 11 March 2020, that is, the date on which WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic.
Ms J and Mr T say that the first limb of the relevant policy terms covers what 
happened here as the cancellation of their flight meant that their departure was 
delayed by more than 24 hours. Theres a contrary argument that their flight was 
cancelled, not delayed, so there isnt a valid claim. But I agree with Ms J and Mr T 
to the extent that the impact of the cancellation of a flight can be the same as when 
a flight is delayed. Given the circumstances surrounding Covid-19, the airline 
couldnt have offered Ms J and Mr T a new flight. However, in any event, I think 
there are other reasons to uphold this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain.
In Ms J and Mr Ts case, the second limb of the relevant policy term only provides 
cover where the pandemic is within 20km of their arrival point or their pre-booked 
accommodation abroad and the start of their trip is within seven days from the 
date WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic: so only for trips starting between       
12 March 2020 and 18 March 2020. I dont think its particularly unusual for 
insurers to put distance or time limits on this sort of cover, but I think that these 
are significant limitations. In particular, thats quite a narrow window for a 
successful claim.
I think that the limitations on the cover following a natural catastrophe should have 
been brought to Ms J and Mr Ts attention at the outset, to enable them to decide 
whether the policy met their needs. I dont think that the policy summary made it 
clear to Ms J and Mr T that their cover for a natural catastrophe contained 
significant limitations. The IPID referred Ms J and Mr T to the policy wording, but I 
dont think thats enough to draw their attention to the significant limitations. So, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to reject Ms J and Mr Ts claim 
in the circumstances of this case.Even if I decided that Great Lakes could rely on the limitations of the cover, I dont 
think that would produce a fair and reasonable outcome here. Thats because Ms J 
and Mr T bought the upgrade to their policy in good faith and for peace of mind 
should their trip be disrupted due to a natural catastrophe. The pandemic disrupted 
their trip and meant that they couldnt use their pre booked accommodation. Ms J 
and Mr Ts claim has the same components as a claim against the policy which 
Great Lakes would pay except that their trips start date was in April 2020. I think 
that its unfair and unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline Ms J and Mr Ts claim 
simply because their trips start date was outside the narrow window provided in 
the policy, particularly as the FCDO advice against all but essential travel abroad 
remained in place at the time of Ms J and Mr Ts intended departure date.
Great Lakes says that the optional cover is priced according to the cover it gives. It 
hasnt provided a breakdown of the premium it charged but I dont think that the 
price is the determining issue here. I think that if Ms J and Mr T had been made 
aware of the significant limitations of the enhanced trip disruption cover they 
wouldnt have purchased it and would have looked for cover from another insurer. 
Had they done so, I think it is most likely they would have been able to purchase 
cover that wasnt limited in this way.
It follows that its not necessary in this case to reach a conclusion about whether 
its fair for Great Lakes to rely on the exclusions its referred to as I think that if Ms J 
and Mr T had been made aware of the limitations of cover, they wouldnt have 
bought this policy.
Ms J and Mr T say that Great Lakes should waive the excess in this case. I dont 
agree. Ms J and Mr T agreed to pay the excess when they took out the policy 
and it was brought to their attention. There are no grounds on which I could fairly 
direct Great Lakes to waive the excess in this case.
Ms J and Mr T seek additional compensation for the time they spent pursuing their 
complaint. We dont typically make compensatory awards for time spent dealing 
with a complaint and I dont think that its necessary to do so for a fair outcome 
here. Thats because making a claim always involves spending time dealing with 
the matter. Ms J and Mr T were understandably frustrated that their claim wasnt 
settled in a reasonable time. But I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable to 
award compensation for their inconvenience. Great Lakes were operating in 
unprecedented and extraordinary times and had unexpected demands on its 
service.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Ms J and Mr T nor Great Lakes had any comment on my provisional decision. So, I 
see no reason to depart from my previous conclusions. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont think that Great Lakes treated    
Ms J and Mr T fairly and reasonably in declining their claim. Putting things right
To put things right, I now direct Great Lakes to deal with Ms J and Mr Ts claim in 
accordance with the remaining terms of the policy. It should also pay interest on any 
settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date they made their claim to the 
date it makes the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Great Lakes to take off tax from this interest. Great Lakes
must give Ms J and Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms J and Mr Ts complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE 
should now take the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman