DRN-1938261
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complained that they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy associated with their mortgage by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) and they 
were unhappy with how their complaint had been handled.
What happened
In 1992 Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage with NatWest. In September 1997, they took out 
a further advance on their mortgage and at this time they bought a PPI policy. The mortgage 
was in joint names, but the PPI was taken out only to cover Mrs T.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs T complained to NatWest that the PPI had been mis-sold. This 
complaint was originally set up in joint names by NatWest, but Mrs T was in error removed 
from the complaint by NatWest in January 2020. In February 2020 NatWest wrote to Mr T to 
say it could find no PPI taken out in his name connected with the mortgage.
However shortly after this, a new complaint was set up in Mrs Ts name and NatWest says it 
acknowledged this to Mrs T. But before a final response could be issued the complaint was 
brought to this service. NatWest has since said the PPI to cover Mrs T wasnt mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with what NatWest said, so brought their complaint to this 
service. Mr and Mrs T also raised complaints about the service provided by NatWest and 
how their PPI complaints had been dealt with.
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and what NatWest had said was 
fair. 
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
I shall consider this complaint in two sections, firstly considering the mis-sale of the PPI 
policy and then looking at any compensation that may be due for service issues and for 
trouble and upset.
Was the PPI mis-sold?
Mr and Mrs T had a mortgage with NatWest, taken out in 1992, and this had no PPI taken 
out alongside it. In June 1994 Mr and Mrs T took out a further advance, and again at this 
time, did not take out any PPI policy. However, when they took out another further advance 
in September 1997, they took out a PPI policy to cover Mrs T only. 
There are limited documents available from the time of the sale in 1997. The further advance 
mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs T dated 1 September 1997 has been provided. This 
states that Mr and Mrs T had selected to take out PPI with a monthly benefit of £300 at a 
cost of £15.24.
However before the further advance was completed, Mr and Mrs T decided they wanted to 
borrow slightly more. This extra amount was approved and the level of cover for the PPI was 
increased to £400 per month at a cost of £20.32. A separate, signed direct debit mandate 
was received by NatWest on 16 September 1997 for the PPI and statements have been 
provided to show this payment of £20.32 being made by direct debit.
NatWest has said Mr and Mrs T would have met with a mortgage advisor prior to September 
1997 to discuss the further advance they wanted, and it seems that would have been when 
the PPI was discussed, and they agreed to take it out.
I cannot be certain what was said in that meeting about the PPI. NatWest say this was a 
non-advised sale, so information would have been given to Mr and Mrs T and they would 
have decided whether or not they wanted to take out the PPI. Mr and Mrs T say they thought 
they had to have it and didnt know they had a choice.
But Mr and Mrs T already had their mortgage in place and some three years earlier, in 1994, 
had already taken out a further advance on their mortgage. They had not taken out PPI with 
the mortgage or this further advance in 1994. So they should have had some awareness that 
they didnt need to have the PPI to get another further advance in 1997.
I think it likely there was some discussion about the PPI at the meeting in 1997. The 
mortgage offer certainly indicates Mr and Mrs T had agreed to take it out and they had to 
make choices about who was covered and the level of benefit they wanted.  Clearly when 
they increased the amount they wanted to borrow, they also requested to increase the 
amount of the PPI cover.
Overall, based on everything I have seen, I think that Mr and Mrs T, at the time, knew they 
had choices about the PPI and they agreed to take it out, selecting that Mrs T was covered 
and the level of benefit that they wanted.
I cannot be sure what was said at the meeting. Both parties say this was not an advised sale 
where NatWest had to assess Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances to assess its suitability for 
Mrs T. But NatWest did need to provide information to allow Mr and Mrs T to determine if the 
policy was suitable for Mrs T. I do think its more likely than not that the policy was suitable 
for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration: -
Mrs T met the eligibility criteria for the PPI policy.
Mr and Mrs T did have a need for the policy as it seems likely that their ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mrs T wasnt working for an extended period of time, even allowing for any 
redundancy benefits and sick pay benefits she says she would have been entitled to.The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs T, 
and the records indicate they chose the level of benefit and so the monthly cost 
would have been known. 
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mrs T. There was 
nothing about Mrs Ts employment or occupation which would have made it difficult 
for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs T has told us about a 
disability she had, but this was unlikely to have caused Mrs T to make a claim, so 
would not have been affected by the exclusions. And I dont think better information 
about the exclusions would have put Mrs T off agreeing to the policy. Also, I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. 
Taking everything into account I dont think more detailed information would have put Mr and 
Mrs T off taking out the policy. I think Mr and Mrs T had some good reasons to take the 
policy out and would have valued the reassurance it offered, and benefit provided if they had 
needed to make a claim. So I dont think it was mis-sold.
handling of the complaint and service issues
Mr and Mrs T originally complained about the PPI sold with their mortgage and also policies 
sold with other financial products. There were issues raised, and a service complaint, made 
in August 2019, mainly in relation to customer service relating to some telephone calls. On 
19 August 2019 NatWest agreed there had been some poor service around this and offered 
£250 for the trouble and upset caused. This offer was accepted by Mr and Mrs T and was 
paid by NatWest.
I consider from what happened at this point and the compensation offered for trouble and 
upset, accepted and paid, that this was fair for the issues at that time. So I am not 
considering this part of the service issues any further.
It seems that in relation to the other PPI complaints Mr and Mrs T had, other than the 
mortgage PPI, there was some concerns about NatWest losing forms returned on 30 
October and delay in making some payments. These payments were eventually made to 
Mr and Mrs T at the end of November 2019. It is regrettable that Mr and Mrs T felt unhappy 
with the time taken by NatWest to process everything, but this was an exceptionally busy 
time for businesses after the close of the PPI complaint deadline at the end of August 2019.
NatWest sent its offer on 23 October 2019 and Mr and Mrs T responded on 30 October 
2019, then chased for payment on 20 November 2019. The payments were made on 28 and 
29 November 2019. 
Some businesses often indicate it can take up to 8 weeks to process payments, so I dont 
think making the payments within one month of when the response was sent by Mr and Mr T 
was unreasonable. 
In December 2019 correspondence was sent to Mr and Mrs T by email with password 
protection codes. There were problems for Mr and Mrs T accessing these emails. NatWest 
has recently acknowledged the service it gave in relation to this was not a of a good 
standard and it has offered and sent a cheque to Mr and Mrs T for £75 for the trouble and 
upset this caused. 
I think considering what has been said about this, the amount of compensation of £75 is fair 
and I am not awarding anything further for this issue. However, looking at when Mr and Mrs T were pursuing the complaint about the PPI mis-sold 
with the mortgage, there have been some other issues that have arisen. 
It seems when the mortgage PPI complaint was recorded by NatWest in September 2019 it 
was correctly recorded in joint names. The mortgage was in joint names and the PPI benefit, 
although only to cover Mrs T, was providing a benefit also to Mr T in that the mortgage would 
be paid if Mrs T wasnt able to work. And that would benefit Mr T who was jointly liable for 
the mortgage.
However NatWest takes the approach that where there are joint borrowers and only one 
party is insured it provides separate answers to the parties  so telling the party who isnt 
insured there is no PPI in their name and providing a separate decision to the insured party 
explaining what its decision is in relation to the policy they hold.
In this case NatWest has told us that when it was investigating the complaint it received 
some information from the insurer. And it was incorrectly identified that the PPI was in the 
sole name of Mr T. So on 22 January 2020 Mrs T was removed from the complaint. 
On 14 February 2020 a final response letter was sent to Mr T saying there was no PPI in his 
name and the complaint was being closed. Mr and Mrs T contacted NatWest in response on 
17 February 2020 and on 20 February 2020 a further complaint, with a new reference, was 
set up for Mrs T and an acknowledgement letter sent to Mrs T on 21 February 2020. 
During the period from when Mrs T was removed from the complaint, in January 2020, she 
made a number of calls to chase what was happening with the mortgage complaint and was 
told by NatWest it wouldnt talk to her as she was not a party to the complaint and it would 
not tell Mrs T whose name was on the complaint. 
Mr T also called and gave authority for NatWest to talk to Mr T about the complaint in his 
name. On 10 February 2020 Mrs T was informed the complaint was still under investigation. 
Then the letter to Mr T saying there was no PPI was sent.
Based on what NatWest has said it was solely its error that Mrs T was removed from the 
complaint in January 2020 and no new complaint set up straight away to provide her with a 
final response on a policy that was held in her name on the joint mortgage. If NatWest 
processes required two cases set up for joint borrowers, with separate responses sent to 
each of them, then it had to ensure its processes were sound and followed correctly.
By removing Mrs T completely from the complaint and then sending out a response only to 
Mr T this caused some confusion and upset for Mr and Mrs T. They were also put to some 
trouble in chasing the complaint. If they had done nothing after the response sent to Mr T 
was received saying there was no PPI, it is unclear if the policy sold to Mrs T would ever 
have been fully responded to.
Taking all these factors into account, I think that Mr and Mrs T have been put to some 
additional trouble and upset in pursing this complaint about their mortgage PPI and that 
seems to solely have been caused by the error and actions of NatWest. Therefore, I am 
directing that NatWest should pay an additional £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. This is in addition to the £250 and £75 already paid for other issues raised about 
service in the course of all Mr and Mrs Ts complaints.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by National 
Westminster Bank Plc to Mr and Mrs T and Im not upholding this complaint that the PPI was 
mis-sold. 
However, I am awarding an additional £150 for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs T have 
been put to because of the errors made by the business.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman