DRN-3254533
The complaint
Mr C complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly and provided him 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Mr C as follows:
Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountTypical  
monthly  
repayment*
August 2015 Not repaid 36 £4,500 £202.35
Mr C said that he was repeatedly taking out payday loans and AvantCredit failed to properly 
check his situation.
In its final response letter AvantCredit didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr C brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think AvantCredit should have 
provided Mr C with the loan as its own checks showed that his credit spending would be 
such a significant proportion of his monthly income that the repayments were unlikely to be 
sustainably affordable for him at that level.
AvantCredit didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. So it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation. 
And even if a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the 
lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a 
borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
It did some background checks and verified that Mr Cs minimum income was 
approximately £1,800 monthly. 
It recorded information about what Mr C had said he was spending each month on all his 
outgoings and this appears to amount to a total monthly expenditure figure of around 
£450.
AvantCredit also carried out its own credit checks which it has sent me  so I can see the 
same information that I think AvantCredit could have seen when it made its affordability 
calculations.
The credit checks AvantCredit obtained showed that Mr Cs total monthly repayments on 
all active fixed term accounts was £656.
He appears to have had an outstanding payday loan and five card accounts. There was a 
relatively recent default shown in his credit history. 
Like our adjudicator, I think its fair to say that the credit checks AvantCredit obtained 
showed clear signs that Mr C was already having money problems. He was using 
expensive forms of credit whilst evidently unable to meet all the contractual repayment 
schedules he had signed up to.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other borrowing, payday lending or even a default  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reason enough to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan 
application.
But I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when Mr C applied for this 
loan his debt servicing costs to existing creditors were already at least £656 monthly  plus 
an unspecified amount owed to card providers. So by the time he needed to pay for this 
loan as well, this meant he would need to spend more than £858 each month on paying 
credit debt. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that this amount was such a significant proportion of his take 
home pay (by my reckoning, almost half his net income), it was a clear indication that Mr C 
was unlikely to be able to maintain such a high level of debt sustainably. 
Bearing in mind that the loan purpose was stated as other, I dont think AvantCredit 
wouldve had any reason to think that this loan wouldnt simply add to Mr Cs overall 
indebtedness and worsen his existing financial situation which was already showing some 
signs that he was over-stretched financially. So I think AvantCredit shouldnt have provided 
the loan for this reason.I've taken carefully into account what AvantCredit has said about affordability calculations it 
carried out. But I think that AvantCredit could see also that Mr Cs level of debt servicing 
costs relative to his take home pay would be such a significant proportion of his net income 
that it was unlikely he would be able to sustainably repay this borrowing over the loan term.
To sum up, I dont think AvantCredit could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing the 
loan to Mr C wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts 
unsustainably. I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr C did ultimately run into payment 
problems on this loan  which I think was reasonably foreseeable for the reasons I've 
explained above.  
So, I am upholding Mr Cs complaint that he should not have been given the loan. 
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that AvantCredit should pay any additional redress. Mr C 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think AvantCredit 
acted unfairly towards Mr C in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.
If AvantCredit sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
  add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been 
given the loan. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this 
amount.
  If this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* 
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of 
settlement).
  If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then AvantCredit should ensure that it isn't subject to any historic or future 
interest and/or charges and treat Mr C sympathetically and fairly if he still 
needs further time to pay.
Whilst its fair that Mr Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial 
history, its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information 
recorded about a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove 
any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman