DRN-4382932
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs H complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt 
with their home insurance claim. 
RSA are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Some of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As RSA accept they are accountable for the actions of 
their agents, in my decision, any reference to RSA should be interpreted as also covering 
the actions of their appointed agents.
In my decision Ill refer mainly to Mrs H as shes primarily been dealing with this claim and 
complaint.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr B, Mrs H and RSA. These events 
have taken place over a very long period of time  as the initial claim was first made in 2016. 
In my decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs O had a home insurance policy with RSA. In 2016 Mrs Hs property was unfortunately 
flooded, following heavy rainfall. She made a claim against her home insurance policy with 
RSA for the resulting damage to the property and her contents. 
During the course of this claim, Mrs H became increasingly unhappy with how RSA were 
handling things. She appointed her own loss assessor (B1) to handle the claim on her 
behalf. RSA ultimately agreed with B1s schedule of works and associated costs. B1, not 
RSA appointed the work contractors from that point. 
Mrs H raised dissatisfaction with RSA on a number of occasions about various issues 
relating to the claim across a number of years. She had previously referred a complaint to 
our Service which has been closed since 2018. 
In 2022 Mrs H complained again to RSA. They responded not upholding the complaint, but 
offered to settle a contents claim for £19,346.59. They also offered Mrs H a further 
opportunity to present any additional information about any other payments shed made. As 
Mrs H remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to our Service for an independent 
review.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint and as Mrs H didnt accept her findings, the 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. For example, both parties 
are already aware that these events have been going for an extensive amount of time and 
Ive only summarised the key points of the background earlier in my decision. 
The scope of my decision
Our Service wont continually reinvestigate or revisit issues that weve made findings on 
many years ago after closing a complaint. Aside from the relevant DISP rules we must 
operate under, were an impartial, informal alternative to the Courts and leaving complaints 
open ended would mean we couldnt offer an efficient service to the many customers who 
come to us for a resolution to their dispute with a financial business.
Our Investigators issued opinions on earlier complaints related to this claim in March and 
July 2018. In the first view, the Investigator said:
What I have considered is the whole claims handling process from when the claim 
was made to date [March 2018] and:
I reviewed everything that happened to date, and any new events/issues would need 
to be raised as new complaint points and addressed separately.
In the second view, another Investigator agreed with the earlier view and explained that   
Mrs H could have the ongoing issues considered at a later date should problems persist. 
However, I find he stated in error that wed only considered events up until the complaint had 
been referred to our Service in February 201  as the earlier view from March 2018 clearly 
stated events up until that point had been considered.   
The reason I need to make this clear is because I note that Mrs H in response to our 
Investigators view on this complaint sent a detailed reply and more evidence (specifically a 
forensic buildings report) related to the initial drying out process which RSA were 
responsible for. I need to be very clear to Mrs H that I will not be making any findings on the 
early stages of this claim (pre March 2028). This is because my decision will only look at the 
complaint referred to our Service following a final response letter dated 27 August 2022. In 
that letter, RSA (in summary said):
theyd not be commenting on events prior to our Services involvement in 2018 which 
wed already considered, 
any issues with the repair, workmanship or drying issues needed to be directed to 
B1, 
theyd previously requested further supporting evidence of losses incurred by Mrs H, 
and
they made an offer of £19,346.59 to settle the remaining claim (contents and other 
costs).
I also need to be clear to Mrs H that I can only consider the actions of RSA when responding 
to this claim (post March 2018) and the actions of their appointed contractors/agents. From 
what Ive seen large parts of Mrs Hs complaint relate to the actions of B1 and subsequent 
loss assessors appointed by her. I note the terms loss adjuster and loss assessor have 
been used interchangeably in this complaint. For clarity, a loss adjuster will generally work 
on behalf of the insurer (RSA) and a loss assessor will work on behalf of the insured (Mrs H). 
Based on what Ive seen, any issues with workmanship here are not solely the responsibility 
of RSA - due to most of the contractors being appointed by B1 and other loss assessors on 
Mrs Hs behalf. How have RSA considered the claim and how have they treated Mrs H overall  buildings 
claim?
A large part of the remaining dispute here relates to the condition of Mrs Hs property and 
whether this was caused by the initial drying out by RSA or not. As outlined earlier, Im not 
making findings on events that took place prior to March 2018. 
When Ive considered the evidence, Im satisfied that RSA responded appropriately when 
the issues with air quality were brought to their attention. They agreed to cover the cost of air 
scrubbers. I agree that it took some time for this decision to be made and this will have been 
frustrating for Mrs H. But I can see communication was happening between RSA and the 
relevant parties here behind the scenes to try and find a way forward. This was complicated 
by liability being disputed between the relevant parties.
Ive also had to weigh this up against the other evidence which shows that Mrs H or her 
appointed agents didnt ensure that the property was still heated during repair works to help 
the drying out process. I note the comments about a prepaid meter meaning this was made 
more difficult, but it doesnt mean it shouldnt have happened or that RSA should have been 
responsible for ensuring the property was heated. Ive also noted a separate issue where its 
recorded by RSA that contractors were unable to issue drying certificates as they regularly 
turned up to monitor the drying only to find equipment was not running.
Emails from May 2018 also show that the air scrubbers were delayed being installed due to 
a lack of response/contact from Mrs H.
Overall, I dont find any failing on the part of RSA (when made aware of any potential issues) 
to the extent that compensation would be appropriate. Mrs Hs responsibility for the general 
maintenance of the property did not cease just because a claim was ongoing. Mrs H has 
said: 
Although they provided something towards the fuel costs, the amount they were 
prepared to pay was limited and the meter stopped when their allocation ended. They 
failed to make sufficient payments to keep the power and gas on.
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs H reached out to RSA to make them aware of this at that 
time to request that further payment be made. Mrs H has made reference to expert opinions 
that the heat being on would not have achieved very much and actually led to increased 
bacteria/contamination. Whilst I can follow the logic that warmer temperatures can create 
better conditions for certain bacteria to multiply, the alternative to this is the property remains 
cold and doesnt dry any further without heating (during the cooler months).
I find the position taken by RSA to direct Mrs H back to B1 around any issues relating to 
repairs carried out by their appointed contractors to be fair and reasonable. The 
arrangement here appears to have been B1 arranged repairs/contractors on Mrs Hs behalf 
and RSA ultimately paid for them. I note from the file that Mrs H appears to have 
acknowledged that B1 are responsible for some delays too. For example, an email from her 
dated 5 July 2018:
When we first contacted [B1], [name redacted by Ombudsman] asked me if any 
SWAB tests had been carried out and if a surveyor had been. I replied saying that 
they had not and [name redacted by Ombudsman] said that he was going to arrange 
them both..no tests were arranged..you did not pick up on the fact that these 
tests has still not been done.It wasnt until the builders noticed that the house was still damp, that [third party 
business], were brought in and finally these tests were started, almost a year after we 
employed [B1].
I hope this clarifys [sic] why we are saying that [B1] have caused delays too.
Contents
A dispute arose over some of the contents that remained upstairs in the property and 
needed to be removed to allow a cleaning process to take place. Whilst Ive placed to one 
side the earlier finding that responsibility did still remain with Mrs H to ensure the unaffected 
areas of the property were maintained (for example by having the heating on), eventually 
RSA agreed to advance payment that would then be deducted from the overall contents 
settlement. Whilst it did indeed take some time for RSA to approve payment, Im satisfied 
that it was a positive step that meant Mrs H didnt have to find the funds to pay for this from 
elsewhere. 
RSA were entitled to request reasonable evidence to verify the contents part of the claim  
for example proof of ownership. Ive found no sufficiently persuasive evidence that RSA 
unfairly valued items. This is a normal course of action in this type of claim.
Im satisfied that the offer made by RSA in their final response letter dated 27 August 2022 
to settle the outstanding contents claim is fair, reasonable and proportionate. Mrs H should 
discuss this offer with RSA if shes not accepted it or been paid yet. Im making no further 
direction that the offer needs to increase.
Other points raised
As explained, this has been a long running and complex claim. As the deciding 
Ombudsman, Ive decided what I need to directly address in the decision and what I dont  
but I have carefully considered all of the extensive evidence in this complaint. 
Im saddened to hear of the overall impact this long running dispute with RSA has had on 
Mrs H and her family. With any insurance claim there will almost always be a level of 
inconvenience - especially where the insured needs to move out of their family home. In this 
case, because of Mrs Hs family circumstances, the impact will have been compounded. 
Mrs H has told us shes not able to confirm that shes received all payments that RSA say 
theyve sent so far. Ive asked our Investigator to contact RSA who will update Mrs H on 
what has been paid to her.
Mrs H and her family spent an extensive amount of time in alternative accommodation when 
repair works were ongoing. Mrs H raised issue with the relevant landlords retaining some of 
the security deposits  which RSA would deduct from the overall settlement. I find that RSA 
were not in a strong position to challenge the landlords decisions and can fairly deduct this 
from the overall settlement. Mrs H says one deposit was retained due to RSA not paying rent 
that was due. Its my understanding that RSA paid rent that was due for the dates that they 
agreed for Mrs H to be lawfully in the alternative accommodation. 
I also find that RSA dont need to do anything further in relation to Mrs Hs additional costs 
around this time (eating, travel and higher utility bills). RSA say Mrs H failed to provide them 
with the requested council tax bills in a timely manner. Mrs H says she did send them. I 
make no finding that theyve done anything wrong or are responsible for Mrs Hs credit score 
being affected due to any unpaid bills. I note that in the July 2022 final response letter RSA have, again, left the door open for Mrs H to provide supporting documents for the additional 
expenses shes incurred. This is fair and reasonable. 
Alternative accommodation was provided until the point B1 let RSA know that the required 
repair works had taken place. This is what Id have expected to happen. 
My decision will ultimately disappoint Mrs H but it brings to an end our Services involvement 
in trying to informally resolve her dispute with RSA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman