DRN-3078598
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC Bank) unfairly sold shares within 
her Individual Savings Account (ISA) in order to cover its annual management charge 
(AMC).
What happened
Mrs W held a Corporate ISA (which only held HSBC shares) with HSBC Bank, the AMC for 
which was funded by the HSBC shares dividend payments. 
In early 2020 HSBCs regulator, the Prudential Regulatory Authority, requested that HSBC 
paid no further dividends with effect from the dividend payment due on April 2020 because 
of the Coronavirus pandemic in order to preserve capital. 
On 6 May 2020 HSBC Bank wrote to Mrs W to explain that in normal times the AMC 
(charged quarterly) was taken just after HSBC paid its dividends and before any spare cash 
was used to buy additional HSBC shares, which is how the Corporate ISA was set up. 
In accordance with its terms and conditions HSBC Bank was allowed to sell HSBC shares 
within the ISA to pay for the AMC if insufficient cash was held on account. But as HSBC had 
stopped paying dividends just before the dividend payment was due in April 2020, HSBC 
Bank thought it was unfair to sell HSBC shares without giving customers advance notice. 
It said that if there was insufficient cash on account to pay the April AMC HSBC Bank would 
defer that charge until July 2020 but with effect from July it would collect the AMC in the 
usual way  including any outstanding balance due from the April AMC  and if necessary 
would sell HSBC shares to cover the charge. At that time there was no other way that HSBC 
Bank could collect the AMC, but it said it was looking at alternative ways and would let 
customers know in writing if it was able to do so. 
When Mrs W received her quarterly statement for the period covering 6 July to 5 October 
2020 it was clear that HSBC Bank had sold some of her shares. She wrote to HSBC Bank 
on 6 November acknowledging that she had been written to in May, but that letter had said it 
was looking at alternative methods of collecting the AMC. And the shares had been sold at 
£3.70933 compared to a year high of £6.029.
Mrs W said she wanted an alternative means for the AMC to be paid such as a direct debit 
instruction for her bank account as well as a temporary reduction or suspension in the AMC 
to reflect the lower administration charges incurred by HSBC Bank. She said the reducing 
amount of her shareholding would erode both her capital and future income returns. 
HSBC Bank wrote back to Mrs W on 13 November. It confirmed it had looked into alternative 
ways of collecting the AMC but was unable to do so via direct debits or cheque payments. It 
could only be collected via the HSBC cash dividends credited to the ISA or by selling shares 
if there wasnt any cash available.
Mrs W wrote again on 28 November and referred to the Government website relating to the 
recovery of administration charges which said that charges, by agreement, could be paid for 
from funds outside of an ISA. She also noted that HSBC Bank hadnt reduced its AMC 
during the time there were no dividends paid by HSBC.
Mrs W told us she originally held a total of 2,730 HSBC shares and this was reduced by 
eight shares between 6 July and 5 October 2020 and a further three shares between 6 
October 2020 and 5 January 2021. 
Mrs W wasnt happy and brought her complaint to this service. To put the matter right she 
said she wanted HSBC Bank to stop recovering the AMC by the sale of shares and put in 
place alternative arrangements, return her shares, recover the charges from her bank 
account and lower the level of the AMC charges through the pandemic because of HSBC 
Banks reduced administration of not having to process dividends. 
In the meantime, HSBC Bank issued its final response to her complaint reiterating its 
position.  
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He detailed 
the background to the complaint and in summary;
He confirmed this service was not the regulator and didnt have the power to tell a 
business it should change a process or procedure.
HSBC had acted within its terms and conditions and had provided him with a 
warning, so it was difficult to say it had acted unreasonably.
This service couldnt tell HSBC to reduce its AMC charges as it was a business 
decision. 
It was unfortunate that the HSBC shares were sold at the time they were, and the 
price received, but it wasnt something that could be held against HSBC Bank as 
investments do fall and rise in price. 
Mrs W disagreed with the investigator. She said:
The investigator hadnt considered that HSBC Banks actions had taken place during 
an unprecedented time and it was such an event that would trigger a force majeure 
clause. And while HSBC Banks terms and conditions didnt include such a clause, 
she gave information from a website that confirmed that if a contract didnt include 
such a clause then counsel must determine what course of action was in the clients 
best interest. 
HSBC Bank would have known that the action taken by the Prudential Regulatory 
Authority would have caused a fall in the share price and that selling her shares at 
such a discount wasnt in her best interests.
HSBC Bank should have temporarily put aside its terms and conditions and have put 
in place alternative means for recovering the AMC without disadvantaging its clients. 
The investigator confirmed to Mrs W that this service didnt have the power to take the action 
she had requested. 
In response Mrs W said;
She referred to this services website regarding what it was able to do including 
looking at unfair charges. 
She maintained that HSBC Bank deducted unfair charges without her agreement. 
HSBC Bank would have known that by selling her shares when it did it would result in her incurring both capital and revenue losses which must be considered as unfair. 
It hadnt let her know, subsequent to its original warning letter, that it wouldnt be 
altering its method of collecting the AMC and that one way communication meant she 
was unable to disagree with HSBC Banks final terms and conditions before her 
shares were sold. 
She had another ISA share dealing account with a different provider who recovered 
its AMC through a direct debit system and there was no practical reason HSBC Bank 
couldnt offer a similar approach. 
The investigator reiterated it wasnt for this service to tell a business how it should operate. 
That was for the regulator.
Mrs W said;
The regulator wouldnt look at individual complaints, that was the role of this service. 
When HSBC Bank had written to consider alternative means to recovering its 
charges that was a change and it hadnt confirmed in writing what its conclusion was 
before selling her shares. 
She maintained that this service did have the power to consider whether HSBCs 
course of action and communication methods with him were fair and reasonable if a 
business was operating in an illegal manner. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
I sympathise with Mrs Ws position and do appreciate her comments that during such 
unprecedented times an alternative method of collecting the AMC would have been helpful. 
She had a Corporate ISA which only had one shareholding, HSBC. So once the dividends 
from HSBC were no longer forthcoming it was inevitable that any available cash on her 
account would dry up. Clearly HSBC Bank were looking at alternative arrangements as 
evidenced by its letter of 6 May 2020 but that didnt turn out to be the case. 
The role of this service
Im aware of what Mrs W considers this services role should be but were not the regulator 
of financial businesses, and we dont monitor or review their internal processes or how they 
operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate 
the work of the courts.
HSBC Banks decision not to offer alternative means with which customers could pay the 
AMC charge was one for it to make. Im not in the position to challenge a decision made by a 
business provided that is not outside of its terms of business about which the consumer was 
aware and agreed to. That is not my role. It is for HSBC Bank to run its business  and 
provide a service that it considers satisfies its customers  so while I appreciate Mrs W is 
frustrated by, and doesnt agree with this, I cant find that HSBC Bank has acted outside of 
its agreement with her. I cant agree that it has not been fair or reasonable in its dealings 
with Mrs W. Mrs W has said the unprecedented times would trigger a force majeure clause. She said 
she checked HSBC Banks terms and conditions and couldnt see that it included such a 
clause. But she referred to a website from a legal business that said if a contract didnt 
include such a clause then counsel must determine what course of action was in the clients 
best interest. 
Mrs Ws suggestion refers to a legal issue. And the content of the extract that she enclosed 
suggests that such an omission from a contract, and what resulting action would be needed 
in its absence, would need to be resolved via a legal or court route. But as Ive mentioned, 
this service is an alternative to the courts so her comments arent something that I can 
consider.
Did HSBC Bank act within its terms and conditions?
HSBC Bank has referred to clause 10.3 of its terms and conditions under the charges 
section which makes clear that HSBC Bank could sell shares on account if insufficient cash 
was available in that account. 
For clarity;
10.3 If there are insufficient uninvested monies in your Account to pay any charges 
or fees which become due to us, we shall be entitled to:
(i) deduct from any future Income, or
(ii) dispose of Account Investments 
for the purpose of realising an amount necessary to pay such fees. This includes 
occasions where there is insufficient uninvested monies when the Company has not 
declared dividends.
However, the terms referred to by both HSBC Bank and Mrs W are from 2019 and Mrs W 
opened her account much earlier than that. HSBC Bank has now been able to give us a 
copy of its terms and conditions which is the one nearest to the date Mrs W opened her 
account that HSBC Bank still has available. Clause 16.12 says;
16.12 You will be liable to pay any applicable value added tax chargeable in respect 
of any charges or fees payable by you under the Account. If there are insufficient 
uninvested monies in your Account to pay any charges or fees which become due to 
us, we shall be entitled to deduct from any future Receipts, or dispose of Account 
Investments, for the purpose of realising an amount necessary to pay such fees. 
Im satisfied that effectively they both make the same point that HSBC could sell shares in 
order to finance charges debited to the account if necessary. So, I think it likely that during 
the time Mrs W has had her account with HSBC Bank, all applicable terms and conditions 
said similar to those I have quoted above. 
I dont agree that when HSBC Bank wrote to Mrs W in May 2020 detailing what had been 
imposed by the Prudential Regulatory Authority, the impact that would have on its clients 
and its collection of the AMC that that was a potential change to its terms and conditions with 
which Mrs W should have had a choice about whether to accept. There wasnt any comment 
in that letter about a potential change to its terms and conditions, only that HSBC Bank was 
looking at alternative ways it could collect the AMC bearing in mind the lack of HSBC 
dividends that were normally used to finance the charge. 
While I note that Mrs W was unhappy with this one way communication, I dont agree that 
the implication of that warning was that Mrs W would be given the opportunity to agree or 
disagree with the outcome as an alternative to the terms and conditions that she agreed to at the outset of opening her ISA account. And HSBC Bank did say it would be in touch with 
clients if it could find an alternative method, which it did not. 
I also note from the terms and conditions from 2019 that if HSBC Bank were to amend its 
charges (in accordance with clause 16) it would need to have given Mrs W at least 30 days 
prior written notice before it made any change that wasnt favourable to her. And if the 
amendment was favourable, it would tell her within 30 days of that change. 
I cant see anything similar in the terms and conditions from 2004 and there wasnt mention 
of the possibility of amendments to charges, but I note charges were detailed in a separate 
schedule at the time and which might have given more detail. But the terms and conditions 
do say HSBC Bank could amend any of its terms by giving written notice to the customer 
giving 14 days notice prior to the change. 
So, HSBC Bank already had the facility in place to make any amendments, and which it 
didnt use, which further suggests its letter of 6 May didnt potentially constitute any change 
to its terms.  
In conclusion, HSBC Banks terms and conditions are clear (and which Mrs W has made 
clear she understood) , and I cant agree that there was an alteration  or a potential 
alteration with which Mrs W had to agree  to its terms and conditions. 
Mrs W has also requested that HSBC Bank lower its AMC charges temporarily on the 
assumption that the administration costs would be lower due to it not having to process any 
dividend payments. Again, the charging terms were agreed at the outset so there was no 
obligation for HSBC Bank to alter its AMC charges. So, I dont find that in either instance 
HSBC Bank acted outside of its terms and conditions. 
Did HSBC Bank act fairly and reasonably?
When this service considers a complaint, we look at it on its own individual particular merits 
and also whether the actions of a business are fair and reasonable. 
In its submission to this service HSBC Bank told us that the system on which Mrs Ws 
particular investments sit cannot currently support the administration of fees taken from 
outside of the ISA wrapper. It told us it did look into alternative means, like the ones 
suggested by Mrs W, but for a variety of (unexplained) reasons a business decision was 
made not to implement this. It acknowledged it wasnt an ideal situation and like Mrs W, 
some customers would be unhappy. But it said the situation was predominantly caused by 
an unexpected issue  the pandemic  and the request from the Prudential Regulatory 
Authority. 
For both parties the situation they found themselves in was as a result of an unprecedented 
event. Ive considered the actions taken by HSBC Bank and whether they were fair and as a 
result was Mrs W treated fairly.
Im satisfied HSBC Bank did make attempts to try to resolve the issue in that its customers 
who only held HSBC shares would find themselves in when any spare cash on their 
Corporate ISA was used and no further income stream in order for the AMC to be funded. In 
May 2020 it proactively wrote to its customers to warn them of the lack of dividend payments 
and that it would postpone the April charges to July for customers who didnt have sufficient 
cash on their account. 
Whether this was done in the hope that the next dividend would be paid  which seems 
unlikely as the Prudential Regulatory Authority had asked that no further dividends be paid in 2020  or in the meantime it was looking at alternative means of accepting payment for the 
AMC. Of the two, the latter seems more likely and as explained in its letter.
As it transpired, HSBC Bank made a business decision that alternative means werent 
possible. And while I understand that Mrs W says she would have appreciated being told 
this, I dont think it would have changed the outcome. As Ive concluded above, HSBC Bank 
wasnt looking to change its terms and conditions, only offering an alternative during 
unprecedented times, and didnt change its terms and conditions so was entitled to sell 
shares in the ISA account in order to finance the AMC. So, I cant conclude that it acted 
unfairly. 
Mrs W has requested a reduction in the AMC during this time because she says the 
administration costs for HSBC Bank would be lower as result of a lack of dividends to 
process. I appreciate from Mrs Ws point of view this seems to be the case. 
But the processing of dividends would only be one element that made up the total AMC 
costs. HSBC Bank would still be carrying out all of its other duties as a Corporate ISA 
provider. So, I dont find HSBC Banks decision not to do it unreasonable. 
Taking all of the above into account, and in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I 
dont agree that HSBC Bank acted unfairly or acted outside of its terms and conditions in its 
dealing with Mrs W.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman