DRN-1142329
 
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with his insurers Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), who have declined to 
continue to offer him accidental and personal possessions home insurance, following a 
number of claims.   Mr H would like his insurers to continue to cover him.    
What happened
Mr H is a tenant. His tenancy allows for home contents insurance and is a group policy.   
There are two levels of cover, standard and a cover that provides for accident and personal 
possessions, which covered both inside and outside the home.  Mr H had the higher level of 
cover.   From July 2017 until August 2019, Mr H made many claims on his policy, although 
one was revoked and one was withdrawn.  His insurers wrote to him warning him about the 
level of claims.   Aviva also told him that they would be withdrawing the cover as the number 
of claims made it economically impractical for them to continue to cover him.  Aviva then 
downgraded his level of cover to standard level, rather than withdrawing or cancelling it.  
Aviva informed Mr H that they could not increase his premiums as this was a group cover 
and so they were unable to.  
 
Mr H was not satisfied and brought his complaint here.  Our investigator looked at it and 
found that Aviva did nothing wrong as Aviva could withdraw the policy as they had notified 
Mr H and on the basis of the number of claims that Mr H had made over a short period of 
time.  Our investigator did not uphold Mr Hs claim.  Mr H was not satisfied and the complaint 
was passed to me.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.  I will now give you my reasons why.
 
I have to assess what steps Aviva took when dealing with Mr H and whether they acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards him.  Aviva are allowed to make commercial decisions 
about the risks they want to offer insurance for.  They have to inform the policy holder of the 
actions that they will take and must give reasons why they are taking those actions.  In this 
case, Aviva wrote to Mr H telling him that there would be changes to his policy given the high 
level of claims made.  In August 2019, Aviva then withdrew the product but allowed Mr H 
cover on the basis of their standard policy.  They also told Mr H the reasons why they were 
withdrawing the policy.  I can not see how Aviva had acted unfairly towards Mr H as they had 
given him a fair warning and told him the reasons why they would be withdrawing the cover.  I do not find them to have been unreasonable in anyway, especially as they allowed cover 
to continue on a standard level.
 
Mr H had stated that he would pay increased premiums so that Aviva could continue to 
cover him.  Unfortunately, in his case this could not be done as it was a group policy for the 
benefit of all tenants. The only option for Aviva would be to either cancel his cover or offer 
the standard level of cover, which is what they did.  I can not see how Aviva have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H.   I am afraid that there are no reasonable grounds on 
which I can ask Aviva to do anymore.   
 
My final decision
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman