DRN-3054014
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined a claim she made under her 
care and protection policy.
References to Amtrust include its agents.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs P purchased a leather sofa and chair. She took out a five-year care and 
protection insurance policy with Amtrust to provide cover for them. In late 2020, Mrs P 
attempted to make a claim under the policy. She said there were claw marks on the sofa, 
caused by her cat who had become distressed because of a change in routine during 
lockdown.
Amtrust sent a furniture technician around to inspect the damage. Following this, Amtrust 
declined Mrs Ps claim referring to an exclusion in the policys terms and conditions stating 
that it wouldnt pay for costs arising from more than two incidences of pet damage.
Mrs P raised a complaint with Amtrust, but it maintained its position. So, Mrs P referred her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ps concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. She didnt think Amtrust had acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mrs P disagreed with our investigators view. She said she couldnt understand why the 
technician had come to the conclusion that the claw marks were on different days. Her cat 
was very distressed and went on a random spree. He hadnt done this before or since. She 
also questioned why the technician took a spare swatch of leather to match up to repair if he 
thought it was not a viable repair. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle a claim promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
In declining the claim, Amtrust has referred to an exclusion in the policys terms and 
conditions which says it will not pay for costs arising from any damage, soiling or staining 
caused  by more than two incidences of pet damage
Its important to explain that it isnt for me to decide how the damage was caused to Mrs Ps 
sofa or how many incidences occurred. Ive needed to consider if Amtrusts decision to 
decline her claim was reasonable, based on the information available. 
The technicians report refers to multiple scratches on various parts of the sofa. It says it 
looks a bit excessive to b (sic) a one off pet damage. It goes on to say that the outside 
arms look aged darkened over pulls.
The report includes a number of photographs of the sofa, which seem to support the 
technicians findings. The scratches are in multiple areas of the sofa and some of the marks 
appear darker, which suggests that they were less recent than others. 
I appreciate Mrs P feels strongly that her claim should be accepted. She says her cat was 
very distressed and went on a random spree. Shes suggested that the reason for some 
marks appearing darker than others is due to different exposure to sunlight or products shed 
used to clean the leather. And shes sent us some additional photographs.
Ive considered what Mrs P has said but her comments havent made a difference to the 
outcome of her complaint. As Ive said, its not up to me to determine how the damage was 
caused. I think it was reasonable for Amtrust to have relied on the expert evidence it 
received and reached the conclusion that the damage was as a result of more than two 
incidences. It follows that I think it was fair for Amtrust to have applied the exclusion and 
declined the claim.
Mrs P has questioned why the technician took a spare swatch of leather to match up to 
repair. But it wasnt up to the technician to decide whether to accept or decline the claim. His 
role was to inspect the damage and report back his findings to Amtrust. This included giving 
his best recommendation for repairing the sofa if Amtrust chose to accept the claim. So,   
Mrs Ps comments about this also havent made a difference to my conclusions.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs P, but I think Amtrust has acted fairly and 
reasonably. So, I dont require it to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman