DRN-2985845
The complaint
Ms J says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she had a significant 
amount of other debt and this led to it being problematic to make the loan repayments. She 
says that Morses should have made better checks and it wouldve seen this and not let to 
her. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Ms J. This lending 
started sometime before July 2013 and the last loan was approved in November 2015. 
Morses has said that its records show that loan 1 may have been sold by another business. 
It may have been aware of this loan when it sold loan 2 as it subsequently took over this 
business but it isnt responsible for the sale of it. In any event both sides dont have details 
about this loan, so I havent fully considered it. 
loan start dateamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)end date
1 no details provided
2 05/07/13 £650 50 27/11/14
3 27/11/14 £400 50 26/11/15
4 03/07/15 £200 34 30/08/16
5 18/11/15 £400 52 30/08/16
The information Morses has provided shows that these loans 4 and 5 were passed to a third-
party collection agency. I dont have full details about this, but Ive assumed these loans 
werent fully repaid. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think Morses was acting incorrectly 
when it approved loans 1 to 3. But he thought that Ms J was showing signs of reliance on 
this type of credit by loan 4, and so it shouldnt have approved loans 4 and 5. 
Morses agreed in part with the adjudicators opinion. It agreed with what the adjudicator said 
about loan 5 and offered to pay compensation on this basis. But it didnt think that it 
irresponsibly lent loan 4. It didnt think that three loans in the two years prior to this was 
excessive, and it thought the lending was affordable. 
Our adjudicator considered what Morses had said but didnt change his opinion about the 
complaint. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Js complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms J didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont look at them in detail. 
But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms J had with Morses. So, they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
And Morses now agrees that loan 5 shouldnt have been approved. I also dont disagree with 
this outcome and so I also wont look at this loan in detail. But Ive included the 
compensation in my putting things right section below. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 4 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Ms J, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular 
circumstances of Ms Js case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say this 
because:At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms J was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Ms J had already been indebted to Morses for two years. And 
Morses mayve been aware of some lending before this. So Morses ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Ms Js indebtedness was unsustainable.
Loan two was for £650. Loan 4 was for £400, and this is a lower amount. But loan 3 
was still outstanding so the amounts Ms J was borrowing hadnt really decreased. 
And her monthly repayments had actually increased. So, Morses ought to have 
known that Ms J was not likely borrowing to meet an ongoing need. 
Right from the start Ms J was provided with a new loan a very short time after settling 
a previous one. And at times she more than one loan running at once. There wasnt a 
significant time when she wasnt making repayments to Morses.
Ms J wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Ms J had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended 
period.
I think that Ms J lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Js indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The length of time over which Ms J borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Morses should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms J from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms J loans 4 and 5.If Morses has sold any outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms J towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms J 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms J as though her had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms J having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms J. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms J. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Js borrowing for loans 4 to 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Js credit file. 
Morses does not have to remove these loans from Ms Js credit file until these have been 
repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if her ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Js complaint. Morses Club PLC should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman