DRN-2193572
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) should not have
approved his loan as he was in financial difficulty at the time and he had a number of 
outstanding payday loans with other lenders. Mr O also says Lending Stream kept applying 
defaults to his account and reporting the same loan twice when he was told the defaults 
would be removed.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. Subsequently, we requested 
further information from Lending Stream and Mr O, but we didnt receive this information.  
The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Os complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part 
of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr O was approved for a £400 loan in May 2018. The loan was to be repaid in six monthly
instalments, the highest instalment being £176. The last correspondence received from
Lending Stream shows there is an outstanding balance of £482.80.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Os complaint. He thought the checks Lending Stream
carried out before granting Mr Os loan were proportionate and that lender wasnt wrong to
approve it.
In relation to the reoccurring defaults applied to Mr Os credit file, Lending Stream had
offered to remove the defaults from Mr Os credit file and it seems it paid him £100 due to
the difficulties he received with this problem.
However, our adjudicator concluded that Lending Stream should pay Mr O an additional
£100 due to the problems hes had and to remove the duplicated loan entries from his
credit file.
Following the adjudicators view, Lending Stream made an offer to settle the complaint inline
with the adjudicators recommendation. The lender said it raised an amendment to Mr
Os credit file on 20 June 2020 to remove the defaults from August 2018 until the present. It
also agreed to pay £100 to Mr O for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of
his complaint.
Lending Streams offer was presented to Mr O. He confirmed he wanted to check that his
credit report had been updated before accepting any offer to ensure the defaults had been
removed. But to date, Mr O hasnt provided an updated copy of his credit report.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im still intending to
uphold Mr Os complaint. But I think Lending Stream should pay Mr O an additional payment
to cover the cost of obtaining his Experian credit file.
Its not clear if Mr O accepted our adjudicators opinion that Lending Stream wasnt wrong to
approve his loan, so I will reach a finding on that in this decision.
Mr Os irresponsible lending complaint
Lending Stream had to assess Mr Os loan application to check if he could afford to pay back
the amount he wanted to borrow without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which
was proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken into
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the
repayments and Mr Os income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr O. These factors
include:
Mr O having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr O having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable); Mr O coming back for loans shortly after 
previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive of the borrowing becoming 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr O.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Os complaint. And Im not upholding Mr Os complaint
about the sale of his loan. And Id like to explain why.
Mr O has told us he had a number of outstanding payday loans at the time he applied for his
loan with Lending Stream. The information provided by the business shows it completed a
credit check at the time of Mr Os application. These credit check results showed Mr O had
six active accounts at the time with outstanding balances of £3,800, and one of his accounts
was in default.
Lending Streams credit checks didnt show what these individual accounts were, and if they
included outstanding payday loans. Therefore, having thought about the information Lending
Stream were presented with, I dont think the results of Mr Os credit checks warranted
further checks on his circumstances.Lending Stream asked Mr O to declare his monthly income and expenditure each month. 
Mr O declared that he had a monthly income of £1,900 and his expenditure amounted to 
£700, which left him with a monthly disposable income of £1,200. Using national averages 
for monthly expense categories, Lending Stream added a further £69 on top of the 
expenditure declared by Mr O. This still left Mr O with a sufficient monthly disposable income 
of around £1,131 of which to meet his monthly repayments  the highest repayment being 
£176. So, I think the loan repayments appeared affordable.
This was also Mr Os first and only loan with the business, so it had no history to go by to
show that the lending had become unsustainable. As a result, I dont think Lending Stream
was wrong to approved Mr Os loan.
Mr Os credit report.
It appears that the main cause for Mr Os complaint is that Lending Stream is still reporting
defaults on Mr Os credit report  although it had agreed to remove these defaults.
I can see on 9 January 2019 Lending Stream agreed to remove the defaults applied to 
Mr Os credit file from 15 August 2018 until 4 January 2019. The emails between Mr O and
Lending Stream suggest that Mr O had given new bank details to Lending Stream to enable
repayments to be set up, but this did not happen. Although no payments were made during
this time, it appears Mr O was willing to do so, which is the reason Lending Stream agreed to
remove the defaults. It also agreed a payment arrangement for £50 per month starting from
23 January 2019.
Following this, it seems that there was a technical error which led to the default still showing
on Mr Os credit file. On 18 March 2019, Lending Stream confirmed there was a technical
error and that it would be raised to the relevant department. Three days later, on 21 March
2019, the business confirmed it had requested the removal of information on Mr Os credit
file and it provided an incident reference number for the amendment.
But the information that followed suggested that the defaults had still not been removed. On
30 May 2019, Lending Stream told Mr O it had found a problem with the reporting procedure
and it had been raised to its technical team. Lending Stream apologised for the problem and
advised Mr O to continue making his repayments.
Between 17 June 2019 and 26 July 2019, I can see a number of emails between Mr O and
Lending Stream about the defaults showing on Mr Os credit file. And as the matter wasnt
resolved, Lending Stream agreed to provide Mr O with £100 compensation due to the time
he had spent trying to resolve the matter. Mr O accepted the settlement and his outstanding
balance was adjusted to reflect the £100 payment.
But since then, Mr O contends that the defaults are still showing on his credit file. And that
Lending Stream has been reporting duplicate entries about his loan on his credit file.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os complaint and concluded that he was unable to
see if the defaults were still reoccurring. As a result, he thought the £100 compensation
payment Lending Stream had paid in July 2019 was reasonable. He invited Mr O to provide
an up to date copy of his credit report to see if the defaults were still showing.
But, in relation to the duplicated entries showing on Mr Os credit file, our adjudicator thought
the business should pay £100 to Mr O and to remove the duplicated loan entries.
Following the adjudication, Lending Stream confirmed it had raised another amendment
request on 8 June 2020 for the defaults to be removed from the period of August 2018 untilJune 2020. It also agreed to pay a further £100 to Mr O in-line with the adjudicators
recommendations. Lending Stream says it hasnt reported duplicate entries and it requested
for Mr O to review his credit report with Experian or Call Credit. And that if there were still
discrepancies, it would investigate the matter further.
This offer was put to Mr O and he advised he would be obtaining an updated copy of his
credit report. But to date Mr O hasnt provided us with a copy of this. He has told us that he
had a free trial with Experian but now he will have to pay to receive his credit report. As a
result of this, Im unable to see if Lending Stream has made the relevant amendments as it
agreed.
I think its clear that there has been a technical error from Lending Streams side but also,
that Lending Stream has tried to make the amendments to Mr Os credit file. We have a copy
of Mr Os Experian credit report dated November 2019, which shows defaults were still
reported for his Lending Stream loan at that point in time. But as we dont have an up to date
copy, its difficult to understand what present issues Mr O is still facing, and the impact that 
this may potentially be causing.
But, saying that, I think its clear that Mr O has faced a number of broken promises from
Lending Stream and that it has taken a significant amount of time to rectify what is a fairly
straightforward request.
So, I think Lending Stream should remove any defaults from August 2018 until present, and
it should ensure no duplicated loan entries are being reported. However, I dont think the
additional £100, as recommended by the adjudicator, is reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr O has spent a significant amount of time dealing with this issue and there was an
expectation that this matter would be resolved by now. Even if the information Lending
Stream is reporting is now correct, and in line with what it agreed, Mr O is understandably
concerned that the default could be re-reported, as has happened in the past.
Mr O will now incur some cost in having to register and then pay a membership fee to a
credit reference in order to monitor to make sure that the information isnt re-reported by
Lending Stream and to make sure the changes Lending Stream has said have been made
are completed. So I think in the circumstances it is fair that Lending Stream cover these
costs  considering Mr O only needs this assurance because Lending Stream has failed to
do what it needed to in the past.
Overall, this has been an on-going problem for a number of months now. Lending Stream
told Mr O the issue was sorted initially some 18 months ago, so, although Lending Stream
has already paid Mr O £100 I think it needs to go further. I think it needs to make a further
payment directly to Mr O of £200  this payment reflects the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr O, as well as covering costs of Mr O of having to obtain his credit report in order to check
whether Lending Stream has done what it agreed to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SNC didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision and it also accepted 
the findings. Mr O responded to my provisional decision and told us that he was unsure 
about the settlement which was recommended. In my provisional decision, I explained that Lending Stream had already paid Mr O an 
amount of £100 in July 2019. And my provisional decision went on to explain why I think 
Lending Stream should pay Mr O an additional amount of £200. Whilst our adjudicator 
thought the business should pay an amount of £100 (which Lending Stream agreed with), I 
think this amount shouldve been increased to £200. And as Ive said above, Lending Stream 
has agreed with this. 
I think the amount of £200 reflects the trouble and upset caused as a result of the time its 
taken to rectify his credit file and any costs Mr O incurred in obtaining and monitoring his 
credit report. 
So, because neither party had any new evidence to add I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in the provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr O, Lending Stream should:
Remove any defaults applied to Mr Os credit file from August 2018 until present.
Remove any duplicated entries reported about Mr Os loan.
Pay Mr O £200 to reflect the trouble and upset caused as a result of the time its 
taken to rectify his credit file and this will also cover any costs Mr O incurs in 
obtaining and then monitoring his credit report.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold Mr Os 
complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman