DRN-3345873
The complaint
Mr P complains that Creation Financial Services Limited made an interest charge when he 
was told his account was placed on hold.
What happened
Mr P says he contacted Creation in April 2021 about his credit card account and told it he 
couldnt pay his full monthly balance, as he had done for many years. He says he was told 
his account would be put on hold and says he told Creation he would repay the full balance 
by May 2021. Mr P says he then noticed in May 2021 that he had been charged £199.26 
interest and says if Creation had told him about that interest then he would have considered 
other ways of paying the balance. He says the charge is unfair and would like it refunded. 
Creation says Mr P told it he couldnt pay the monthly direct debit for the balance of 
£9,972.13. It says it agreed not to take the direct debit for the full amount but says it correctly 
added interest in those circumstances in line with account terms and conditions. It also says 
details of interest is contained on the account statements. Creation says it no longer has the 
call recording.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the interest was correctly charged in line with agreed account terms and conditions. 
The investigator didnt think there any dispute that there wasnt any mention on the 
telephone call about interest being charged and that the call was about the direct debit not 
being taken that month. The investigator thought Mr P knew that interest would have been 
due and that he made significant payments in the following days which suggested there 
were no real financial difficulties.
Mr P doesnt accept that view and in summary says he wasnt told about the charge or 
interest and says he made a recent call to Creation in which he was told about interest being 
charged. He questions why the call recording isnt available and says Creation has breached 
the law about consumer protection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr P will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ps account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Creation will charge interest if a full statement balance isnt repaid by a certain date. I also 
think that information was repeated on every account statement Mr P would have received 
from Creation. And that Mr P would have been aware of interest being charged as he set up 
a direct debit to repay his monthly balance in full every month. So, I dont think Creation 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by charging Mr P interest when he didnt repay his monthly 
balance in full here.
I appreciate that Mr P would have liked me to have listened to the telephone call from April 
2021 which is no longer available. But I dont think there is any real dispute about what was 
and what wasnt said during that call. Im satisfied that Mr P called Creation about his direct 
debit and asked if it not be taken that month. And Im also satisfied that Creation did just that 
and didnt request the direct debit for the full statement balance of over £9,972. I dont think 
on balance Mr P asked Creation if he would still be charged interest in those circumstances 
and equally, I dont think Creation told Mr P that he would still be charged interest. So, I dont 
think Creation in those circumstances gave Mr P incorrect or misleading information about 
the interest due.
I appreciate Mr P says Creation has breached Consumer Protection legislation. But I make 
clear to Mr P it would be for a court to determine that. And I have made clear that Im 
satisfied Mr P was told about the interest at the start of the agreement in the terms and 
conditions and in the account statements. So, I dont accept that Creation has hidden 
material information from him or misled him when the contract started which I think is the key 
date.
I also appreciate Mr P says Creation ought to have helped him rather than charge him 
interest. Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But I have not seen any evidence that Mr P was in such difficulties. I think 
on balance that he knew he couldnt afford to pay Creation the full statement balance in or 
around April 2021 and asked that the direct debit not be taken. I also think Mr P has told us 
that he usually paid the full account balance each month which suggests he knew interest 
was due and then he paid significant amounts to Creation following the telephone call. Im 
satisfied that on balance that suggests Mr P was not in financial difficulties. And in those 
circumstances I wouldnt have expected Creation to have taken further steps to help Mr P, 
when he made clear that he would repay the account balance in full the following month, 
which he did.
Overall, Im satisfied that Creation has acted in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions by applying interest not a charge. It follows that I cant fairly order Creation to 
refund the interest correctly charged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman