DRN-3614584
The complaint
Mrs D is a sole trader, trading as P. She complains that Society of Lloyds unfairly turned 
down her business interruption claim after she was forced to close P due to Covid-19.
Mrs D has brought her complaint through a representative. For ease, Ill refer to all 
submissions as being from Mrs D.
My references to Lloyds include its underwriting syndicate. 
What happened
Mrs D held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. She claimed under her 
policy after she was forced to close her premises due to the Governments lockdown 
restrictions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Lloyds said the policy didnt cover Mrs Ds claim. It said the outbreak and gradual spread of 
Covid-19 was not an incident within a one mile radius of her property as required for a 
successful claim. The denial of access had to be caused by property damage either to her 
premises or premises in the immediate vicinity of her business, which meant she could not 
trade/access her premises. Lloyds said there had been no such damage, and that there was 
no cover for infectious or notifiable diseases such as Covid-19.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mrs D brought her complaint to our service. She said she 
had been forced to close her business due to the Governments response to Covid-19. This 
was a Public Authority Incident being an incident within a one mile radius of her premises 
resulting in denial of access to her premises for more than 24-hours. She said an incident 
meant an occurrence or an event and could be local, regional or national. 
Mrs D said that on a fair and reasonable basis her complaint should be upheld. She also 
said the wording of the policy, which referred to Denial of Access in access was unclear 
and should have read only denial in access. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. In her view, 
the relevant policy subclause - Public Authority Incident - was a Non-Damage Denial of 
Access or NDDA clause. But she concluded Covid-19 was not an incident as required for 
a successful claim under the policy. In reaching her findings, our Investigator took into 
account the High Courts decision in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business 
interruption insurance test case and Corbin & King Limited v AXA Insurance UK Plc EWHC 
409 (Comm) (Corbin & King).  
Mrs D did not agree with our Investigators findings and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. She said, in summary: 
She was aware of the legal cases mentioned by our Investigator but had understood 
that our service could look beyond the strict legal position to consider what was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Lloyds itself had not focused on the word incident in its final response to the 
complaint, but rather focused on the lack of property damage. 
The Supreme Court in the FCA test case made no distinction between policies which 
referred to the occurrence of a disease and those which referred to an incident or 
event in its consideration of disease clauses. So, it seems inconsistent and 
unreasonable for our service not to apply the same rationale to the NDDA clauses. 
The Supreme Court did not consider incident in the context of NDDA clauses 
because the High Courts decision was not appealed. 
There was no specific exclusion in the policy to deny her claim. 
Lloyds strongly disagreed that subclause e was a NDDA clause, referring to the words 
Denial of Access being in bold and, as such, defined under subclause b which required 
Property Damage. Lloyds also said that there was no cover in place under the business 
interruption section for non-damage type covers, except for food poisoning under 
subclause f. It said the business interruption cover as a whole was intended to be damage 
only coverage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mrs Ds business. However, I am not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why and in doing so Ill focus on the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different levels of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Lloyds acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when it 
declined Mrs Ds claim. 
The policy covers losses caused by a BI Incident which includes the following:
b. Denial of Access: the prevention of access to Your Premises because of 
Property Damage (but excluding Property Damage which prevents or hinders the 
supply of gas, electricity, water or telecommunications) within 1 mile of Your 
Premises up to the limit specified in the Schedule;
e. Public Authority Incident: an incident occurring during the Policy Period within a 
one mile radius of Your Premises which results in a Denial of Access in access to 
Your Premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the 
government or any public authority, for more than 24-hours up to limit specified in the 
Schedule within any one Policy Period
In response to Mrs Ds claim, Lloyds referred to the requirement for Property Damage but 
also to the need for an incident within a one mile radius of her premises. 
Like our Investigator, I dont think that the Covid-19 restrictions imposed on Mrs Ds business 
were as a result of an incident. In reaching a decision that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances I need to take into account, amongst other things, relevant law. 
I think the FCA test case is relevant to Mrs Ds claim as it was considered by the High Court and this part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court. 
The High Court said (at paragraphs 404-405) about the need for an incident: 
 
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: 
something which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular 
way 
 
...an incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse 
of language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause to 
describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a 
one mile radius of the insured premises. 
 
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, 
variegated, prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it 
is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in the radius with the disease 
as an incident for the purposes of the clause. 
 
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin & 
King but I dont believe it would be. Thats because the judge said at para 516: 
 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording 
 as the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment 
makes clear. Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion 
at [404] that In our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on 
the requirement for an incident. 
 
Mrs D has referred to the Supreme Courts judgment in relation to an occurrence of
Covid-19 in support of her position that Covid-19 should be considered an incident. 
However, the Supreme Courts comments were in relation to specific radius clauses where 
the insured peril was further defined. So, in this case I find the judgments from the High 
Court and Corbin and King (referred to above) are relevant in reaching a decision.
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court. Im not persuaded that the 
Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic within one mile of Mrs Ds premises 
means that there was an incident which denied access to Mrs Ds business premises. 
I think Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in finding that Mrs Ds claim was not covered 
under the policy.
Mrs D argues that the wording of her policy at subclause e is ambiguous, because of 
repeated words as follows: Denial of Access in access. I see the point she makes about 
the drafting and her view that the clause should simply have said denial in access. But 
even if I use the most favourable interpretation to Mrs D  being the party who did not draft 
the clause - it does not make any difference to the outcome. That is because she would still 
need to show the denial in access had been due to an incident. Ive explained why I dont 
consider I can fairly and reasonably conclude that Covid-19 was an incident. 
Ive considered Mrs Ds argument that there is no exclusion in the policy to deny her claim. 
But I dont think it matters that there is no specific exclusion as there is no clause in the 
policy that provides cover. 
Lloyds has argued that subclause e above is not a NDDA clause, because it says Denial 
of Access is specifically defined in subclause b of the same section and, as such, requires 
Property Damage for a successful claim. Ive noted its comments but I do not need to 
reach a finding on this point. Even if I concluded that property damage wasnt required, it doesnt affect the outcome because I dont consider that Mrs D has shown there was an 
incident which resulted in denial of access. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mrs D was hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman