DRN-3118636
The complaint
Mr T complains that he received poor service from TSB Bank plc (TSB) when his mobile 
phone needed repairing under the cover provided through his bank account. 
This cover was provided through another company. Ill refer to that company as company A 
in my decision. Mr T made a separate complaint about company A that this service has 
already considered. I wont consider that complaint again here.
What happened
Mr T holds a TSB bank account which also provides mobile phone insurance. The cover 
provided protects his mobile phone in the event of it being lost, stolen or accidentally 
damaged. The cover is provided by company A. 
Mr T had a problem with his phone. So he made a claim on his mobile phone insurance in 
August 2019. He paid the £100 policy excess and sent his phone to company A to be 
repaired. 
But as the find my phone feature was still active on the phone, company A said it couldnt 
repair it. Mr T asked company A to hold onto his phone while he deactivated that feature. But 
when company A didnt hear from Mr T for a few days it decided to send him a replacement 
mobile phone, rather than wait to repair his original phone. 
Mr T said that the replacement phone had terrible battery life so returned it to company A. It 
tested the phone but couldnt find a fault, so it sent the replacement phone back to Mr T.
Mr T was unhappy that hed now got a phone with terrible battery life. And hed effectively 
had to pay £100 for it. He complained to TSB. He felt that as the mobile phone cover was 
provided through their bank account, they should put things right.
Later, Mr T said he had to buy a new replacement phone given the poor quality of the one 
hed received from company A. He asked TSB to reimburse him the £220 hed paid for the 
phone. And hed also like to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience he said 
theyd caused.
TSB didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. They said that the issues Mr T has faced with the mobile 
phone insurance need to be considered by company A. They said the policy terms of the 
insurance make this clear.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Ive seen, Mr T feels very strongly that hes been let down by his bank. He feels 
hes had to pay £220, to replace a phone that he considers shouldnt have needed to be 
replaced. While I can understand his frustration, I havent seen any evidence that TSB are 
responsible. Ive seen no evidence of them making a mistake or treating Mr T unfairly. So Im 
not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
In their final response letter, TSB acknowledged that Mr T was unhappy with the service hed 
received from the mobile phone insurance provider when hed sent in his phone for repairs. 
But they said they couldnt comment on the level of service hed received from them. They 
said that if he was unhappy with that service he should raise a complaint with company A 
directly. Mr T did this. But was unsuccessful in that complaint.  
My role here is to consider what TSB have done. I need to decide whether TSB have acted 
fairly and reasonably in respect of Mr Ts complaint. In their final response letter, TSB said in 
relation to the mobile phone insurance: It is the customer's responsibility to ensure all 
account documentation provided is read and understood to ensure a clear understanding is 
gained. I consider that this statement is clear and reasonable. So I reviewed the policy 
terms for the mobile phone insurance. They explain what a policyholder like Mr T should do 
if theyre not happy with the decision about their claim:
What if your claim is rejected? 
If youre not happy with the claims decision, we want to hear from you as soon as possible. 
Please follow the complaints process.
The complaints process then directs the policyholder to the administrator for company A. It 
provides full contact details for that company. And states:
[the administrator name] handle all queries and complaints on behalf of the insurer.
So I consider that the policy terms are clear. They explain that complaints about the mobile 
phone insurance are the responsibility of company A. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to ask TSB to reimburse Mr T for his new replacement phone. Or pay him any 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
I appreciate this decision will disappoint Mr T. I acknowledge that he feels TSB shouldve 
done more to help him resolve his remaining issues about his replacement phone. And that 
he feels they should pay for the new replacement he felt he had to buy. But I cant find any 
evidence that theyve done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman