DRN-4256993
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LVI) declined his claim 
for loss and accidental damage of personal possessions under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Briefly, Mr Ns contents insurance policy provided cover for loss or accidental damage to 
personal possessions while in or away from the home. While out walking, he lost his smart 
watch and glasses, and found that oil had leaked in his bag causing damage to his iPad. Mr 
N claimed under his contents insurance policy. Due to his disability, Mr N relies heavily on all 
three items, which he told LVI.
LVI declined Mr Ns claim for all three items because he couldnt provide contact details of 
the person whose house hed been at before walking home.  
Unhappy with its decision, Mr N brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ns complaint because she thought LVI had unreasonably 
declined his claim under the policy. She said Mr N hadnt refused to provide the information 
LVI wanted, but the person hed visited had moved out of the country and he didnt have new 
contact details. Our investigator thought LVI should settle Mr Ns claim using the information 
it did have, which included evidence of ownership, photos, a loss report, and evidence of 
contract cancellation for the technical items. She said LVI should pay 8% simple interest per 
annum to Mr N based on the calculation of the claim settlement amount. In addition, our 
investigator said LVI should provide £500 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience 
Mr N experienced having to be without the possessions he relied upon.
LVI didnt agree. It said Mr N failed to provide it with the evidence it asked for, so he failed to 
meet the terms of the policy. Further to this, LVI said his accounts of the events were 
conflicting, and it gave several examples of its concerns.
Mr N provided further information about his devices and evidence that he was charged 
almost £2,000 for just one of them. He asked for £1,000 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr Ns 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Although the overall outcome is similar 
to that proposed by our investigator, my proposed actions are slightly different and for 
different reasons. Ill also refer to the additional evidence provided, so I think its fair in the 
circumstances that both parties have an opportunity to respond.
My role here is to decide whether LVI declined Mr Ns claim fairly, for the reasons it gave 
and in line with the policy. 
LVI declined Mr Ns claim because: 
Our claims team had asked you to provide further information on several occasions, 
but you hadnt responded to this. In order for them to validate the calm, they would 
require the details requested.
Mr N provided lots of other information about his lost or damaged possessions, but he said 
he didnt have the contact details LVI asked for.
Ive looked at Mr Ns testimony about the friend whose details LVI wants. Out of respect for 
his privacy I wont go into details but, based on Mr Ns explanation, I accept its unlikely he 
has the information. 
Regardless of whether he had the details, Ive thought about what LVI would do with the 
information if Mr N had been in a position to provide it. 
Mr N said he was at the friends house when he last saw his possessions. The next day, 
when he woke, he couldnt find the watch and glasses, and his iPad was damaged. Hes 
given an account of his journey home which helps me understand why he believed hed lost 
his possessions on that journey, and I dont find it unreasonable to accept what Mr N says. If 
Mr N had been able to provide LVI with his friends contact details, I find it unlikely that the 
friend wouldve said anything different to Mr N. So, I dont think the friends testimony 
wouldve carried much weight anyway.
For these reasons, I think LVI has enough, or can seek enough, evidence of ownership from 
Mr N without needing to contact his friend. I see no reason for LVI to decline the claim based 
on Mr Ns inability to provide his friends contact details.
Ive thought about LVIs concerns regarding the different account of events Mr N provided. 
The overall account is broadly similar  Mr N completed a journey by foot, bike and train. As 
there were several strands to Mr Ns claims, and given his medical condition and physical 
status at the time of the loss, I dont think the accounts he gave were so different as to cause 
concern. I note that LVIs notes state the likelihood that his account was genuine given that it 
was somewhat complicated in nature. Even so, LVI didnt decline Mr Ns claim because of 
concern over the differing account of events, so I wont address this point further.
As Ive decided LVI unfairly declined Mr Ns claim, Ive thought about what it should do to put 
matters right. The contents policy provides cover for the loss or damage of personal 
possessions away from the home. Mr N lost his glasses, for which there is a £250 claim limit. 
The remaining possessions are for their fair value, up to the policy limit. To be clear, its not 
my role to calculate the claim value: thats for LVI to do based on the evidence it has and 
any that Mr N may provide to evidence the reasonable cost for repair or replacement of a 
new item of similar quality. So, Im minded to require LVI to assess Mr Ns claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions without relying on the missing contact details to decline the 
claim. I dont consider it unreasonable for LVI to seek other supporting evidence, such as proof of 
purchase, clarification of charges etc, should it need to in order to settle the claim. Mr N 
would still be expected to provide reasonable evidence to demonstrate his loss if LVI asks 
for it.
Moving on, Ive looked at Mr Ns request for compensation and the amount at which he 
thinks LVI should settle the claim. As Ive already said, its not my role to calculate the claim 
settlement. However, I can say what may or may not be reasonable for LVI to include in its 
calculations. 
Mr N provided evidence about the costs he says he incurred. Looking at the limited 
evidence, it appears that the payment demand for around £2,000, which he said was for his 
replacement iPad, includes other items unrelated to the claim. His evidence shows, for 
example, that he cancelled phone contracts incurring a termination fee. The claim wasnt for 
a phone, so I wouldnt expect LVI to pay for any related charges. Mr N also said there was a 
new generation of iPad, so hed expect the new version. The policy provides for repair or 
replacement on a new for old basis, but that doesnt mean the newest model. LVIs liability 
would be limited to the cost of providing a new iPad of the same type and functionality as his 
damaged iPad. That doesnt include upgrading to the newest version which would otherwise 
amount to betterment.
In light of the evidence Mr N submitted more recently to support his claim, I decided it would 
be worth explaining the above so that he didnt expect LVI to pay for everything he hoped 
for. LVIs limit of liability is the evidenced costs for the glasses up to £250, the smart watch 
and iPad which directly relate to the loss or damage incident.
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Ns request for around £1,000 compensation. Our investigator 
proposed a sum of £500. LVI took around two months to send a substantive response 
declining Mr N's claim. 
While two months may not seem excessive, in the circumstances where Mr N was clear 
about his reliance on the devices, I think the delay warrants £500 compensation as 
recommended by our investigator. Mr N has been quite open with both this service and LVI 
about his medical conditions. Out of respect for Mr Ns privacy I wont repeat then here, but 
hes explained why and how the loss of his personal possessions caused him difficulties. I 
think LVI shouldve taken that into consideration and reached a decision much sooner. I 
understand that LVI was seeking further information from Mr N during that period but, as Ive 
said, its not clear what persuasive evidence LVI expected to hear if it had contacted Mr Ns 
friend. Therefore, I think the delay was avoidable.
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, Im satisfied that £500 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
As it couldve settled this claim sooner, Im minded to require LVI to pay 8% per annum 
simple interest. Interest should be calculated on any claim settlement only  so, excluding 
the compensation  until the date the claim is paid.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision. 
LVI had nothing further to add. But Mr N responded with further comment on the 
inconvenience and distress this matter caused him. He asked me to double the 
compensation as a minimum in recognition of the delay, and for the interest rate to be set at 
8.9% in line with the courts. Mr N also provided details of the up-to-date replacement costs 
of the lost and damaged items.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint for the same reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision. However, I havent changed the action Ill require of LVI to put matters 
right. Thats because I considered the relevant information Mr N provided again here when I 
first looked into his complaint, and theres nothing in his further comments to persuade me 
that any change is warranted.
I understand that Mr N would have been frustrated and upset by LVIs requests for 
information he couldnt get, which caused avoidable delays of up to two months. But Im 
satisfied that £500 compensation is a fair amount in the overall circumstances. Given the 
nature of Mr Ns needs for medication reminders and work-related notifications, its not 
unreasonable to expect that hed make arrangements even on a temporary basis to mitigate 
any problems the loss of his items caused. I understand he bought a device to help with 
some of the functions he needed assistance with. But it would be unreasonable to hold LVI 
wholly responsible for the ongoing inconvenience, or for any additional delays in settling the 
claim while Mr N brought his complaint to us.
Although Mr N asked for the interest to be calculated at 8.9% which he says is in line with 
the small claims court, this service considers 8% a fair amount. I see no reason to increase 
it.
Finally, Mr N provided further information about the cost of replacements, and he expects a 
sum of at least £2,400 in addition to any compensation. As I said in my provisional decision, 
its not for me to calculate any claim settlement, and LVI is entitled to seek further 
information about the claim costs should it need to. Ive also said that LVI is not responsible 
for any additional amounts which dont relate directly to Mr Ns claim for the damaged iPad, 
lost watch and glasses. If Mr N has any additional evidence of the costs related directly to 
the claim items, he may wish to provide it for LVIs consideration.
In summary, the further comments dont persuade me that any change to my provisional 
decision is warranted. Therefore, the actions I will require of LVI, should Mr N accept my 
decision, remain the same.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ns 
complaint and Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must:
reconsider Mr Ns claim for his damaged iPad, and lost watch and glasses under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy without relying on the missing contact 
details to decline the claim;
pay 8% per annum simple interest* on any claim settlement, and
pay £500 compensation by way of apology for the avoidable delay before confirming 
its decision about the claim, and for the distress and inconvenience Mr N 
experienced being without his essential devices for day-to-day use.
*If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr N a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman