DRN-3521560
The complaint
Mr B complains that credit card and debit transactions were declined by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Mr B also complains about errors with his personal information and the way Lloyds dealt with 
his complaint.  
What happened
Mr Bs told us he has a medical condition that impacts his ability to use a PIN to authorise 
transactions and use the phone. Mr B has debit and credit cards with Lloyds that should 
operate on a chip and signature basis. 
In April 2021 Mr B tried to use his Lloyds debit cards in a shop but they were declined. Mr B 
has told us the retailer asked him to provide a PIN to authorise the transactions. Mr B says 
he was able to complete the purchase with his Lloyds credit card. 
Around a month later, both Mr Bs debit cards and his credit card were declined by a retailer. 
Mr Bs explained it wasnt possible to verify the payments using the retailers card machine.  
Mr B complained to Lloyds but says it used the phone to contact him despite being aware of 
his medical condition. Mr Bs also explained that he noticed changes to the format of his 
name and date of birth on his accounts. Lloyds sent Mr B a final response but didnt uphold 
his complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint. They didnt think Lloyds had made 
mistakes when transactions were declined. And the investigator said we couldnt consider 
the issues Mr B had raised concerning the way Lloyds had dealt with his complaint. Mr B 
asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs told us he shielded for an extended period so hadnt used his cards for some time. 
Whilst Mr Bs debt and credit cards allow for contactless payments, there are systems in 
place that ask card holders to manually authorise payments from time to time as a security 
measure. And when a card hasnt been used for an extended period, verification checks can 
be requested by way of authorising the payment via the Chip and Signature function. I think 
thats what most likely happened in this case. So whilst I understand the contactless facility 
hasnt always approved Mr Bs transactions, I havent seen evidence they were 
unreasonably declined either. 
In April 2021 Mr B says he was asked to provide a PIN by a retailer. I understand why Mr B 
feels this was Lloyds responsibility. But Lloyds has issued a Chip and Signature card to 
Mr B. The cards dont operate with a PIN so Im satisfied Lloyds wouldnt have asked Mr B to 
provide one. I also think its fair to say that Chip and Signature cards are less common than 
Chip and PIN cards. So its possible there was an issue with the retailer that meant 
Mr B wasnt offered the option to authorise the payment via his Chip and Signature card. 
In much the same way, Mr Bs payments in May 2021 didnt go through. Mr Bs told us there 
were problems in the shop trying to use the retailers terminal. I havent seen any evidence 
that shows Lloyds declined the transactions in question. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I 
havent found that errors by Lloyds led to his transactions being declined. 
Mr B has complained about changes in his personal details at Lloyds. I can see Lloyds 
addressed some letters including Mr Bs middle initial. But Im satisfied the debit and credit 
card names have remained consistent and are correct. Lloyds has confirmed Mr Bs date of 
birth was changed by mistake when he first complained. But the mistake has been resolved 
and Mr Bs details are now correct. As Mr Bs details are noted correctly with Lloyds, Im not 
telling it to take further action. 
Our investigator noted that we dont have the powers to consider complaint handling in its 
own right because it isnt an activity thats regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. As 
we cant look at the way Lloyds dealt with Mr Bs complaint, including how it contacted him, 
Im not going to comment further in this decision. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent found grounds to tell Lloyds to take further 
action to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman