DRN-2612415
The complaint
Mr A complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer 
an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a Section 32 Buy-Out pension plan (S32). Mr A 
complains that the pension benefit hell get is less than the benefits wouldve been in his 
OPS.
What happened
In 1989 Mr A was advised by Phoenix (trading as Pearl Assurance) to transfer an OPS to a 
S32 with-profits policy. A transfer was made of £9,215.
In October 1994, the then regulator  the Securities and Investment Board  put in place an 
industry-wide review of certain pension business carried out by authorised firms between 
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. This is commonly referred to as the Pensions Review.
Mr As pension transfer fell within the scope of the Pensions Review. Phoenix offered Mr A a 
review in 1997, which he accepted.
Phoenix conducted the review and considered that Mr As transfer had been unsuitable and 
performed a loss calculation. The loss calculation was only considered to be valid for a 
limited period as the figures involved, and the assumptions made, changed. Mr A wasnt 
prepared to accept the redress offers made prior to expiry, which led Phoenix to recalculate 
the loss figure a number of times.
Loss calculations over the period showed losses as follows:
- 18 December 1997  offer to increase the pension by 16.42%, Therefore increasing 
the nominal capital sum (NCS) from £38,713 to £45,070. 
- 22 September 1998  revised offer to increase the pension by 30.88%, increasing 
NCS to £50,667. 
- 12 May 1999  revised offer to increase the pension by 52.79%, increasing NCS to 
£59,149.60. 
- 4 April 2000  revised offer to increase the pension by 36.51%, increasing NCS to 
£52,847.
Mr A wrote again to Phoenix rejecting its offer of redress. Subsequent statements however 
show that Mr As pension was enhanced in line with Phoenixs April 2000 redress 
calculation.
Mr A complained to Phoenix in 2020 about the fact that the mis-sale of his pension has still 
left him worse off than he would have been in his OPS.
Phoenix responded to Mr As complaint. It explained that it had reviewed his pension and 
agreed that the transfer had been unsuitable. It said that it had looked at the redress 
calculations from that time and considered that they were done in accordance with the 
regulators instructions. Including the assumptions that should be made about future 
performance. Phoenix explained that following the review, it had increased the value of his 
nominal pension from £38,713 to £52,847 and the death benefit from £9,215 to £12,579.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A passed the age that he could have taken his pension benefits. Its understandable that 
he looked again at what his pension is now worth and compared that with the benefits he 
may have had if he hadnt transferred. So I understand that hell be disappointed that Im not 
upholding his complaint. Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for similar 
reasons, as Ill explain.
Im grateful to both parties for the detailed documentary evidence provided. And to Phoenix 
for consenting to our looking into this case in spite of the time limits regarding bringing 
complaints.
Phoenixs original review of Mr As transfer in 1997 found the transfer to be unsuitable. This 
is not an area of disagreement for Mr A or Phoenix. I havent seen any evidence regarding 
the advice to transfer but I think that its reasonable to accept that the advice was unsuitable 
given both sides agree this point. So the only issue left for me to determine is whether or not 
Phoenixs offer to put things right was fair and reasonable at the time.
The regulator directed how firms like Phoenix had to put things right. The purpose of the 
Pensions Review and the resulting redress was to provide a once and for all fix for an 
identified industry problem. 
Weve been provided with the calculations behind the different redress offers. Having looked 
at the information provided, I can find no mistakes in the assumptions that they were based 
on. Or the way that the redress was applied.
The redress method used followed the guidance set by the regulator. In simple terms it 
estimated the capital value of the benefits of Mr As OPS, discounted to a current value 
allowing for anticipated growth. A comparison was then made against the current value of 
Mr As pension fund. This then indicated whether Mr A was likely to suffer a loss or not. But it 
could only ever have been an estimate. Any actual loss would only have been known at 
retirement age. Which, at the time, was about twenty years away for Mr A.
I have to recognise that the calculations had to make assumptions about what might happen 
in the future. It was a complex process carried out by actuaries. Some of the assumptions 
related to likely investment returns, future rates of inflation and annuity rates. Where these 
things havent then turned out like the assumptions, the redress at the time may not have put 
consumers back exactly where they would have been. Providing that Phoenix followed the 
regulatory guidance though, Im unable to say it did anything wrong in putting things right.
Ive seen correspondence in July 1999 where Phoenix wrote to Mr A explaining the 
breakdown of its calculations for the revised offer it had made in May. Which I think was fair 
and made the basis of the calculation as clear as Phoenix were able to do.
Each of the review outcome letters outlined the proposed redress. And let Mr A know that he 
had the opportunity to take advice before accepting the offer. It also informed Mr A that he 
could refer his case to the PIA Ombudsman Bureau (the ombudsman scheme at the time) if 
he wasnt satisfied. These were reasonable things to make Mr A aware of. Mr A has shown us that he wrote to Phoenix in April 2000 rejecting the offer of augmenting 
his pension policy. He informed Phoenix that he was taking advice from the PIA 
Ombudsman. But hes been unable to provide any information of the outcome of that, or 
whether he in fact did contact them in the end. I have no way of knowing whether such a 
referral was made or not.
I understand Mr As frustration that his S32 policy was enhanced in line with the April 2000 
loss calculation against his wishes. But I dont think Phoenix caused Mr A any financial loss 
by doing this. It had already repeated the loss calculations a number of times in the absence 
of any acceptance from Mr A. The regulators guidance was such that the loss calculations 
were only relevant for a limited period of time. 
Phoenix werent required to indefinitely carry out loss calculations. And having identified a 
mistake that was likely to cause Mr A a loss in the future, I dont think it was unfair of 
Phoenix to put it right. It was certainly fairer to Mr A than leaving his pension as it was. 
Enhancing his pension didnt cause Mr A a loss. Rather it was thought, at the time, that it 
was putting things right for him. So I dont think that Phoenix did anything wrong in treating 
Mr As S32 in the way it did.
Ive also considered Mr As concern that he hasnt received the annual bonuses that he 
thinks he should have on his with-profits fund. I can see that his statements explain that 
Phoenix no longer applied annual bonuses to the type of policy Mr A had from 2018. It 
explained that the current approach to the application of the with-profits bonuses was to 
allocate returns by way of a final bonus. Payable when the plans benefits are claimed. 
Phoenix publish its Principle and Practices of Financial Management document which 
explains how its with-profits funds are managed. Which complies with regulatory 
requirements. Mr As issue isnt indicative of any error in the way that Phoenix have 
managed his plan, it is merely a feature of the type of pension plan he has.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr As complaint against Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman