DRN-3193554
The complaint
Mr K complains that the record of bonds that National Savings and Investments holds for
him isnt right. It includes a bond he says he has cashed in, and doesnt include one that he
says he still holds. Mr K felt that he must have missed out on possible prizes as a result.
What happened
Mr K said NS&I didnt show him as holding a £50 bond, with a number starting 020EE, that
should have been part of his record since December 2001. He said he hadnt cashed this
bond in, he still had the paper bond itself.
Mr K told us that although hed complained, NS&I hadnt explained what had happened.
And, most importantly, it hadnt done anything about the chances hed missed of winning
significant prizes. Mr K thought NS&I should pay compensation for that.
NS&I sent Mr K a list of his bond holdings. And it said that the bond Mr K said he still held,
020EE, had been cashed in and paid to him on 14 December 2001, as part of a larger
withdrawal. Just because Mr K still had the paper bond certificate, didnt mean that this bond
was still held for him. People often misplace bond certificates, and the bonds can still be
cashed in without the certificate.
But Mr K had also said that NS&I had made a mistake about another bond, for £50, with a
number starting 018EC. Mr K said he wasnt holding this bond, but NS&I said he was. Hed
had this since before 020EE was cashed in. It was still held for him, and it had been entered
in all the prize draws since.
NS&I said that it was possible that Mr K had asked it to cash in 020EE in 2001, not 018EC,
and it had cashed in the wrong bond by mistake. It said that it couldnt tell this for sure now.
NS&I paid Mr K £50 for poor service. When this case came to us, it said that it thought that
the information it had given Mr K was factually correct, and it didnt think it should have paid
compensation after all.
NS&I also said it had considered whether it had repaid the wrong bond, and because of that
it had retrospectively checked all previous prize draws on the repaid bond, 020EE. It said it
could confirm that only one prize of £25 would have been won after the bond was cashed, in
November 2015. The £50 it had paid to Mr K covered this shortfall.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said NS&I had confirmed
that bond 020EE for the value of £50 was issued on 1 December 2001, then repaid on 14
December 2001, when Mr K took £15,150 out of his bond holdings.
Submission of bond certificates was not required for repayments, so just because Mr K still
had the paper certificate, doesnt mean that he still held the bond. And she noted that Mr K
had held bond 018EC since 1 October 2001, and he still had it, even though he didnt have
the paper for this one.
Our investigator said she didnt think NS&I had to pay Mr K for the one prize that bond
020EE had won. She said some of the letters that NS&I sent were confusing and made Mr K
raise further questions. But she did think a payment of £50 was a fair amount to compensate
for misunderstandings and any inconvenience.
Mr K said hed bought more than just this £50 bond in December 2001, and he said it was
questionable to say that hed redeemed this one in the same month as he received it. He
didnt think it was likely that this was just an error because of the similarity of the numbers.
Mr K also wanted to know how a bond that had been cashed in could then win a prize. He
asked if NS&I re-issues bonds after redemption. And he said if it didnt, then his bond was
still live and he should be compensated for the value of the £50 bond and the lost £25
prize.
Mr K said what NS&I had paid was for inconvenience, it didnt compensate him for his lost
bond, or missed prizes.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
The core of Mr Ks complaint is that NS&I has cancelled a bond he should still have. 
Mr K doesnt agree that this was cashed in, and the money returned to him in 
December 2001. Mr K says he didnt cash in any bonds in late 2001.
But NS&I has shown us evidence that Mr K did cash in a sizeable amount of bonds in 
December 2001. And I note that this meant Mr Ks bond holding changed significantly 
in December 2001. He hasnt queried the overall amount of his holdings. So I think 
that means its most likely Mr K did want to cash in the amount of £15,150 that he 
apparently reclaimed in December 2001.
So if we accept, as I do, that Mr K did ask NS&I to cash in some bonds in December 
2001, then Mr Ks argument would be that he cashed in a different bond then 
(presumably 018EC which he says he shouldnt be holding now) so he thinks thats 
what NS&I should have done.
But I dont think that theres any difference between Mr K holding bond numbered 
020EE for £50 (which he says he should have had) and holding another bond 
numbered 018EC for £50 (which he says he shouldnt have had).
Im satisfied that bond 018EC has been held for Mr K since October 2001, and has 
been entered in prize draws for him since then. And NS&I has assured us that each 
of its bonds has an equal chance of winning, every time prizes are drawn. So I dont 
think that Mr K was any worse off because he had a slightly older bond (018EC) of 
the same value, instead of the one he may have wanted to keep.
I do think there has been some confusion here, and in particular NS&I hadnt 
explained how it was able to be sure that the bond Mr K had cashed in, wouldnt 
have been a grand prize winner. So I asked it about that, and it has explained that its 
computer, ERNIE, generates a series of random bond numbers each month. Those 
winning bonds are then checked, to see if they are eligible for prizes. Some numbers 
arent, for reasons including the following -  The bond number wasnt allocated to a customer at the time of the draw.
-  The bond number was previously cashed.
-  The bond number belongs to a deceased customer, who wasnt eligible to 
receive more prizes.
-  The bond hadnt been held by a customer for more than one calendar 
month.
If the bond isnt eligible, then the next bond number is checked until all prizes are 
distributed.
NS&I said this means it can retrospectively check if any bond number was picked, 
even if that number wasnt eligible to win. And it had checked the bond that had been 
cashed in on 14 December 2001 in this way.
So NS&I can be confident that Mr Ks bond 020EE only came up once, and would 
only have won one modest prize, of £25, in November 2015.
But I still dont think that NS&I has to pay Mr K this money. Thats because each time 
the draw was run, he had the same chance of winning with the £50 bond 018EC as 
he would have had with the £50 bond 020EE. And if I were to ask NS&I to pay a 
missed prize now, then Id be retrospectively giving Mr K the benefit of having had 
both 018EC and 020EE in each of those draws, since 2001. I dont think that would 
be fair.
I can see that its taken some time to clear this issue up for Mr K. But I do think its 
been clear for some time that, whilst his paper certificates may not have matched the 
bonds that NS&I says it holds for him, he didnt have any more or less invested than 
he was expecting. So I think that its always been clear that there was no unfairness. 
For that reason, I dont think that NS&I has to pay Mr K more than the £50 it has 
already paid.
I know that Mr K will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I only responded to address Mr Ks speculation that his bond number might have been 
reissued. It said that once a once a bond is issued it cant be transferred or reissued to 
another customer. So the bonds that had previously been issued to Mr K hadnt been 
reissued to someone else. Those numbers will always remain in the name of Mr K, whether 
theyre active or not.
Mr K sent a detailed response. He started by saying that the complaint that Id described 
wasnt the one hed made. He sent me his original complaint letter, which says that 
The third bond of mine number 020EE______, value £50, is not there but the list 
does 018EC______, value £50, which is not mine.Mr K said he had no record of owning the 018EC bond, so he contacted NS&I. But he was 
told by NS&I that he had definitely won that £50 bond in October 2001. Mr K said he hadnt 
denied owning this bond, or said he shouldnt be holding it, after NS&I had clarified that. 
When I look at a complaint, I have to deal with all the issues raised. In this case, I could see 
at one point, Mr K had said he didnt think he should hold bond 018EC, because he had no 
paper bond for that investment. Although Mr K says he hasnt repeated this allegation since 
January 2021, which was when NS&I told him hed won this, I wasnt able to see that Mr K 
had clearly retracted this. 
When Mr K spoke to our service on the phone, on 5 August 2021, he said that the chances 
of winning were very small, and the chances of winning a bond with such a similar number 
must be even smaller. I wasnt clear then that Mr K accepted he had won in October 2001. I 
apologise if this has caused any confusion here. 
Mr K has now clearly set out that he accepts he won bond 018EC in October 2001, although 
he says he wasnt sent this bond at the time. So Mr K does accept that bond 018EC was 
part of the holdings NS&I had recorded for him, from October 2001.
Mr K also wanted to stress that I was wrong to say he denied cashing in bonds in late 2001. 
He said he had never denied cashing a large quantity of bonds in December 2001. 
But I dont think thats quite right. Ive listened again to the recording of Mr Ks call to us in 
August 2021, and on that call, Mr K did deny cashing a large amount of bonds at this time. 
Mr K said two things then - one that he didnt think hed ever held £15,150 in bonds, which is 
what NS&I said he cashed in December 2001. And two, that it made no sense to suggest he 
would cash in bonds, at a time when he was buying them. Thats why I thought Mr Ks 
previous position was that he didnt cash bonds in December 2001. (Our investigator will 
forward this call to Mr K if he would like to listen to it again.)
However, as I understand it, Mr K now does accept that he cashed a large quantity of bonds 
in late 2001. But he still doesnt think he cashed bond 020EE. He thinks he should still have 
this one. Im happy to review my previous findings on this basis.
Mr K makes this argument on two points  first the similarity in the numbers, and secondly 
the timing of the repayment of bonds. 
On the first point, Mr K said it is simply unbelievable that he could have been issued two 
bonds that end in the same six-digit number. So he didnt believe NS&Is explanation that it 
had issued him a bond starting 018EC, which he still holds, ending with the same six digits 
as the bond 020EE, which has been cashed. 
But I dont agree that this is unbelievable. Mr K bought a number of bonds in December 
2001. I can see that the other two bonds he bought in December also start 020EE. And they, 
respectively have numbers which precede and which follow the six final digits shared by the 
disputed bonds starting in 018EC and in 020EE. 
Mr K has said to us that the numbers of the holding that he won in October 2001, starting 
018EC, and the one he bought in December 2001, starting 020EE which NS&I says was 
cashed that month, are virtually identical. But I dont think they are. The matching part is 
limited to the last six numbers of an eleven digit alphanumeric bond code. And I think that is 
simply a coincidence. For the avoidance of doubt, I do not accept that this similarity is in any 
way evidence of any as yet undiscovered mistake, or indeed of any foul play, by NS&I.Mr K also said that there simply wasnt time for NS&I to register bond 020EE for £50 for him 
on 1 December, but then to cash the same bond on 14 December, as part of a large quantity 
of bonds he cashed in at the time.
This point, I think, supports rather than undermines the explanation that NS&I offered. NS&I 
has said that its perfectly possible that Mr K asked NS&I to cash his £50 bond beginning 
with 018EC in December 2001, as part of the £15,150 he cashed in then. And NS&I said it 
may have accidentally cashed a different £50 bond he held instead, one with the same six 
final digits, but which began 020EE. 
I think thats quite likely to be whats happened here. We know that NS&I doesnt have 
detailed records from 2001, so we will never know this for sure. But even if this is what 
happened, as I explored in my provisional decision, I dont think that this would have resulted 
in any unfairness to Mr K. 
Mr K still got a large quantity of bonds cashed in, in December 2001. Ive not seen anything 
at all to suggest NS&I made a mistake in the total value of bonds it cashed then. And so, I 
dont think that Mr K can say now that he ought to have both bonds 018EC and 020EE in his 
portfolio now. I think that Mr K has always had the right value of bonds, but not necessarily 
the serial numbers hed intended to retain. 
And if Mr K has always had the right value of bonds, even if he didnt have the serial 
numbers hed intended to retain, then I dont think that results in unfairness.
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman