DRN-3374790
The complaint
Ms S complains about advice given by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) 
Limited (Sun Life, formerly Lincoln) to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (FSAVC) plan in 1997. Ms S says she should have been informed that she 
would be better off taking out added years or an Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVC) 
plan through her occupational pension scheme.
Ms S says she wasnt properly advised of the differences between the schemes and if she 
had been, she would have chosen added years as she didnt wish to take any risk with her 
pension. 
What happened
Ms S was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) . She had been with her 
employer since 1993 and was looking to increase her pension contributions.
Ms S met with a tied adviser for Sun Life in 1997. She was recommended a FSAVC plan. 
She took out the plan in April 1997 and made contributions until 2011 when the value of the 
plan was transferred to a new provider.
In 2019 a claims management company (CMC) complained to Sun Life on Ms Ss behalf. It 
said Ms S shouldnt have been recommended a FSAVC plan and should have been advised 
to buy added years through her employers scheme. The CMC said the risks, implications, 
and alternatives in relation to the FSAVC were not fully and properly explained to Ms S. It 
said Ms S was unaware of the higher charges for this type of scheme and was never 
provided with a full or descriptive comparison of benefits between the in-house scheme and 
this policy.
It also complained that the sale hadnt been previously reviewed by Sun Life.
Sun Life didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. It said this sale was not covered by the regulators 
review of FSAVC plans. 
Sun Life said that its adviser had explained the generic differences between the FSAVC and 
the AVC plans. Sun Life also said its adviser referred to a document which set out those 
differences, including the difference in charges and that it specifically referred to added 
years.
It said the recommended plan was suitable as Ms S had required flexibility, portability, and 
the option to vary her retirement age. Sun Life also said Ms S had been provided with an 
illustration which showed the potential projected returns for the plan.
The CMC disagreed. In summary it said Sun Life had not supplied any evidence to confirm 
that the sale of the plan had been included in the regulators FSAVC Review of May 2000. It 
said that review was targeted at this type of sale where the consumer had the option of 
purchasing added years.
The CMC said Ms S didnt have a genuine desire to retire early, she wasnt a job mover with 
poor prospects in earnings and she didnt require anonymity. So, the FSAVC plan wasnt 
suitable for her. It said Sun Life hadnt addressed the complaint which was that Ms S should 
have been advised to purchase added years in her scheme.
The CMC said the evidence supplied by Sun Life only referred to the in-house AVC 
arrangement and no evidence had been provided to demonstrate that the true nature of 
added years had been explained. It also said the documentation provided demonstrated the 
advice was not compliant as it only referred to the in-house AVC and didnt give a full written 
explanation in respect of the added years option.
The CMC also said Sun Life had made an incorrect assumption that Ms Ss scheme would 
have discussed added years with her whereas the pensions department in her scheme was 
strictly not allowed to provide any advice to Ms S.
Sun Life said that this sale was not included in the FSAVC review as only schemes that 
provided employer subsidised IHAVC/added years benefits were obliged to be included, 
and those schemes were set out in Annex A of the guidance. It said neither added years nor 
money purchase schemes were subsidised in any way by Ms Ss employer with all costs 
borne by the member.
It noted the guidelines referred to by the CMC and said those related to sales that took place 
before May 1996. It said the regulators guidelines at the time the plan was sold in 1997 set 
out the following requirements for businesses:
1. The generic differences between the In-House AVC scheme and the FSAVC were 
discussed.
2. The clients attention was drawn to the in-house scheme alternative; and
3. The client was directed to his employer, or the scheme trustees, for more information on the 
in-house scheme option.
Sun Life said the documentation demonstrated that Ms S was made aware of the generic 
differences between the In House AVC (IHAVC) and the FSAVC, and that the advisor had 
referred her to her employers IHAVC for a thorough understanding of the differences. 
Therefore, it said she would have been aware of the IHAVC with her employer and the 
options available in that scheme, including added years if available.
It said the generic differences the adviser discussed with her would have included points 
such as charges normally being lower in the IHAVC and Ms S being responsible for paying 
all of the charges in the FSAVC.
Sun Life said it believed the Generic Differences document was discussed during the sales 
process. It said that document would have shown Ms S that charges on In-House AVCs are 
usually significantly lower than on an FSAVC as the employer may meet all of the set up and 
administration costs, and that often there would be no initial charges. It also said that 
document would have shown that in some schemes, such as Ms Ss scheme, AVCs can be 
used to buy an extra period of service in the pension scheme, known as added years.
Ms Ss representative disagreed with Sun Life and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and initially felt that the adviser hadnt sufficiently 
explained the differences between the different types of plans, so she thought the 
recommendation wasnt suitable. The investigator felt that Ms S was unlikely to move roles 
so didnt require portability. She also noted the Ms S had subsequently purchased added 
years.
However, on further consideration the investigator took into account that as a tied adviser, 
the adviser couldnt advise Ms S as to whether she should take out an AVC plan or buy 
added years. The advisers role was to explain the general differences between those 
options and the FSAVC, and direct Ms S to her scheme for further information. The 
investigator was satisfied that the adviser had explained the general differences as recorded 
on the reasons why letter issued at the time of sale. She also was satisfied on balance that a 
leaflet, which set out the differences between those options, had been discussed and 
provided to Ms S at that time.So, the investigator concluded that the adviser had made Ms S aware that there were other 
options and had provided Ms S with sufficient information about those options and referred 
her to her scheme, in line with the requirements at that time.
Ms Ss representative disagreed. It noted the reasons why document referred to by the 
investigator wasnt a separate letter sent to Ms S, but an additional section at the end of the 
fact find. It pointed out only the adviser had signed the document and Ms S had confirmed 
she had never seen it before.
The CMC said it had asked Ms S about the generic differences document and shed said 
she had never received that document and there had been no discussion in relation to any 
in-house option.
Ms S had also pointed out that the reasons why document didnt refer to added years. Ms S 
had said she would never have viewed an in-house option in her scheme as riskier than an 
outside AVC scheme.
The CMC referred to two documents which it said were the only documents actually 
provided to Ms S by the adviser, and that it said gave no explanation of the differences 
between the options available to Ms S.
The CMC also said the fact the leaflet wasnt expressly mentioned by the adviser in Sun 
Lifes documentation demonstrated on balance that it wasnt provided to Ms S.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision which I concluded that the complaint should be upheld and 
redress should be calculated on the basis of a comparison with the lower costs that would 
have been incurred, if Ms S had taken out an AVC plan, and that it should be carried out in 
accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance. 
The following represents an extract from my provisional decision, and forms part of this final 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To recap, Ms S met with an adviser in 1997. She was in her late 30s and had worked in her 
role for about four years.
A financial planning profile and a reasons why document were completed at that time. Those 
documents set out Ms Ss circumstances and objectives and the profile document was 
signed by Ms S. Those documents recorded that Ms S was looking to increase her pension 
contributions and it was noted that she had joined the company pension scheme late and 
was looking to make up the shortfall. Her annual income was £45,000 and her existing 
pension contribution was nine percent of her salary.
It is not disputed that Ms S wanted to increase her pension contributions. The issue here is 
whether the adviser complied with the requirements at the time when providing the 
recommendation to take out an FSAVC and whether that recommendation was therefore 
suitable to achieve Ms Ss objective.
Ms Ss representative says she shouldve been recommended added years with her 
occupational pension scheme rather than a FSAVC. She says Ms S would have been 
financially much better off if she had bought added years and she didnt need the flexibility or 
portability of an FSAVC.
Sun Life points out that the adviser was a tied adviser so he couldnt recommend an AVC or 
added years. He could only recommend its pension products.
So, I think it is important to look at what was required from a tied adviser at that time. Requirements of tied adviser
The tied adviser couldnt recommend products from other providers but was required to:
1. Draw Ms S's attention to the in-house alternative
2. Discuss the generic differences between the two routes
3. Direct Ms S to her employer or the OPS for more information on the in-house option.
Ms Ss representative says the adviser didnt do this and if the adviser had explained the 
differences, including the difference in costs between the options, and the greater certainty 
provided by the added years option, Ms S would have chosen added years.
Were in-house alternatives discussed with Ms S?
Ms S says the adviser didnt discuss in-house options with her at all. However, I have to take 
into account that these point of sale discussions took place more than 20 years ago, and
Ms Ss complaint was made relatively recently, so there was no particular reason for her to 
recall them prior to that. And as I wouldnt necessarily expect her to recall a conversation 
that took place 20 years ago, the fact she doesnt recall it, does not necessarily mean that no 
discussion of in-house options took place.
Ms S has provided two letters issued to her by the adviser. One is dated 10 March 1997 and 
the other is an undated document.
Documents provided by Ms S
Both of those documents were prepared by the Sun Life adviser and consider additional 
areas of advice in addition to the advice provided around FSAVCs.
I note the first document doesnt refer to in-house options although it does refer in favourable 
terms to Ms Ss scheme. In relation to the FSAVCs it says:
The top-up schemes are designed to help bridge the gap and are the only things left that 
attract full high rate tax relief i.e. every £100 you put in them only costs you £60 and the 
government makes up the rest. In addition they grow totally tax free as opposed to 
bank/building society accounts which lose 40% interest in tax. As the early years are the 
most important in terms of compound growth it is important to utilise those while your 
disposable income is probably at its highest. 
However, as it predates the reasons why document dated 10 April 1997, I am not persuaded 
it demonstrates that in-house options werent ever discussed with Ms S. It appears to be an 
introductory letter which covers a number of financial areas.
The additional undated document also refers to the FSAVCs in addition to other financial 
areas and says:
The top-ups to your superannuation or AVCs are a good idea because you will both have a 
shortfall in your XX (redacted) pensions and because of the huge tax advantages that the 
government gives to them. They attract full tax relief i.e. as 40% taxpayers you get 40% of 
the overall premium paid for you. Every £100 invested effectively costs you only £60 the 
inland revenue pays the rest. In addition any interest earned is paid free of all tax.
At senior positions, a good starting amount is £100 per month. As I mentioned before with 
"investments" as opposed to "protection;' we tend to recommend use of the external fund 
managers such as Schroder, Perpetual, Framlington etc. to look after endowments, avcs 
and Peps. This is opposed to insurance companies own fund managers because they have 
historically produced less consistent growth. As with the endowment therefore we will use 
Lincoln to access the fund managers but we will use different groups to before, to spread the 
monies about. The effects of compound growth mean the early years are highly significant 
so it is important to take advantage of that. For the AVC's I have enclosed two forms and 
highlighted the areas you need to sign.Again, although there is no mention of in-house options, I dont consider this means they 
werent discussed at any time.
A reasons why letter was also issued. Ms S has indicated she was never provided with a 
copy of it. I consider this is a contemporaneous document prepared and signed by the 
adviser at the time. It states that they had fully discussed the generic differences between in 
house and FSAVCs and the adviser had referred Ms S to her scheme for a thorough 
understanding of the differences.
The purpose of that document was to record what was discussed. So, I am satisfied on 
balance that the adviser had drawn Ms Ss attention to the in-house alternative and referred 
her to her scheme for more information. By doing so, the tied adviser would have met two of 
the requirements.
However, although I am satisfied there was some discussion in respect of in-house options, I 
also have to consider whether sufficient information was provided by the adviser to explain 
the key differences between the options, in particular the differences in costs. I note the 
reasons why document only referred to the differences in very general terms.
Were the generic differences between the two routes discussed?
Sun Life has provided a document it says its advisers used at the time. It was entitled A 
comparison of In-house AVCs and Free-Standing AVCs and it set out differences between 
the options. It had two columns which set out the features and the generic differences 
between the FSAVC and the in-house options.
I am satisfied from the contents of the document and the way that it was laid out that it was 
designed to be used by the adviser to assist in explaining the generic differences between 
the FSAVC and the in-house options.
Comparison of options document
I can see at the top of the comparison document it makes it clear that the costs of in-house 
AVCs are usually significantly lower than on an FSAVC and explains why that is the case. 
It also states in relation to the AVCs that often there will be no initial charges. This is 
reiterated on the FSAVC side where it states that the charges of the FSAVC are all borne by 
the plan holder and are usually higher.
The document also makes specific reference to added years and says  In some schemes 
AVCs can be used to buy an extra period of service in the pension scheme. These benefits 
are known as added years and will increase in value in line with increases in earnings.
The document also refers to another perceived advantage of an AVC where it states that 
Employers will sometimes match any contributions paid into an AVC with extra contributions 
into the main scheme and then confirms on the FSAVC side that it is most unlikely that an 
employer will match contributions into any FSAVC.
In addition the document deals with the tax treatment of contributions and indicates that with 
an AVC full tax relief is automatic even if the employee is a higher rate tax payer whereas 
with the FSAVC the Higher rate tax payer must claim their extra tax relief through their tax 
office.
So, I consider that the document made express reference to several advantages of the AVC 
option including the lower charges and referred to the corresponding negative aspects of the 
FSAVC. I therefore consider it set out the differences in a balanced way and I also note it 
made specific reference to added years and gave a broad explanation as to how that option 
worked.
Was the comparison document provided to Ms S, or were its contents explained to her?
Sun Life has said that the wording used in the reasons why letter indicates that the generic 
differences document was referred to and explained.Ms S has said she wasnt provided with a copy of that document and the differences werent 
explained. Her representative also points out that the document wasnt expressly referred to 
in the point of sale documentation.
I also note that it wasnt referred to in the two letters issued by Sun Life that have been 
provided by Ms S. 
I can see that the comparison document had a declaration section at the bottom where the 
adviser was able to sign to indicate that all aspects of the listed features in the document 
had been fully discussed. There was also a customer declaration which stated:
I confirm that my adviser has fully explained all the features of In house AVCs and Free 
Standing AVCs and that I understand the basis of the recommendation made.
Sun Life hasnt provided a copy signed by either the adviser, or Ms S. As both the adviser 
and Ms S signed the financial profile document, I dont think it would be unrealistic to expect 
the adviser to have signed the comparison document and to have asked Ms S to sign it as 
confirmation that this important information had been provided. Particularly, as discussing 
the generic differences was one of the requirements of a tied adviser at that time. There was 
simply no reason, if it had been a cornerstone of the conversation with Ms S, that it wouldnt 
have been signed by both parties.
So, overall, Im not satisfied on balance that available evidence supports the position that the 
generic differences were properly discussed so that Ms S was made aware of important 
differences between the FSAVC and the in-house options such as the difference in costs.
What would Ms S have otherwise done if the generic differences had been discussed?
I have to consider what would have happened here if the generic differences between the 
FSAVC policy and in-house options had been properly explained to Ms S. Would Ms S still 
have elected to take out a FSAVC policy, or would she have chosen an AVC plan which 
generally had lower charges than the FSAVC policy and the potential to build up a retirement 
fund? Alternatively, would she have elected to go for the added years option which tended to 
be more expensive but gave a more certain level of benefit?
As I have said, the tied adviser couldnt recommend an in-house option, but Ms S could have 
pursued this herself with her scheme. The reasons why letter indicates Ms S preferred the 
FSAVC policy because of the greater portability and flexibility in terms of fund choice, risk 
profile and retirement ages.
But Im not persuaded, given Ms Ss profession, that portability was a really important factor 
for her. I think that the flexibility of fund choice and retirement age would have been 
attractive but ultimately, I think the difference in costs is likely to have meant she would have 
preferred the in-house AVC option.
Im not persuaded that she would have taken out added years. Ms Ss representative says 
she would have chosen the certainty of added years had that option been explained to her. 
Ms Ss representative points out that she took out four added years in 2006.
I have to take into account that the certainty provided by added years came at a price. I 
consider if Ms S had investigated the added years option with her scheme, it was more likely 
than not, that it would have appeared expensive in comparison with the AVC and the 
FSAVC, in relation to the returns that might be achieved.
That is because her OPS would have offered the buying of added years at a fixed cost. 
When deciding the cost, it would have wanted to make sure the scheme could cope with 
how many people wanted to buy added years. So, it would have used conservative 
assumptions when working out the cost. I think it is likely therefore that it would have 
appeared expensive. When comparing the cost of added years against the projected returns 
on the FSAVC at that time, for example, it meant that with the FSAVC a relatively low 
contribution could potentially achieve a higher return.I think as added years would have appeared expensive and Ms S was already paying nine 
percent of her income in pension contributions, she is unlikely to have chosen this option.
I appreciate Ms S took out four added years about nine years later, in 2006, but I consider it 
likely that she would have been in a more stable position by then, with more years of 
employment and a higher salary as she gained experience in her role.
I also take into account that added years were based on the assumption that the 
contributions would be paid until retirement age, with increases linked to salary, and that 
generally there was less flexibility to stop and restart. So, I consider these aspects may well 
have been less attractive to Ms S. I note she stopped paying contributions into the FSAVC 
plan in 2011 and transferred its value. In addition, Ms S was intending to retire at 60 years 
but the reasons why letter recorded that she was interested in flexibility in respect of her 
retirement age. So, I think the lack of flexibility would also have made added years less 
attractive as a proposal, at that time.
In addition, although I think Ms Ss circumstances were fairly settled at the point of sale, I 
consider added years would have been more of a fixed commitment for Ms S with increasing 
contributions linked to her salary for a fixed term. Whereas with an AVC plan Ms S would 
have been able to make increases over time  when she felt ready to do so. So, I think that 
was a potential benefit for Ms S.
Accordingly, I think compensation should be calculated on the basis of a comparison with 
the lower costs that would have been incurred, if Ms S had taken out an AVC plan. I have 
set out the details later on in this provisional decision.
Attitude to risk
I have also considered whether Ms S wanted to take the risk posed by the funds her FSAVC 
plan was invested in. Her plan was invested equally in Green Funds and Schroders Sterling 
Broad Market Bond Funds. The application form for the plan signed by Ms S indicates that 
she selected adventurous funds.
Sun Life has provided current fund fact sheets for these funds as it doesnt have fact sheets 
from when the plan was taken out in 1997. It has described them as balanced to aggressive 
funds.
On the fund fact sheet for the Green Fund there is a section which looks at the type of 
investor the fund may be appropriate for. It states:
This fund is appropriate for investors who are willing to take above-average risk for the 
prospect of higher returns. Investors in this fund are prepared to take a greater risk of a 
decline in value and are prepared for the possibility of losing a large proportion of the money 
invested.
The fund fact sheet for the Green funds also shows that they are invested wholly in 
international equities.
The other half of Ms Ss contributions were invested in the Schroders Fund. That appears to 
be made up of both UK fixed interest assets and international fixed interest assets. The 
objective is described as follows:
This fund is appropriate for investors who are willing to accept moderate levels of risk for 
the prospect of slightly higher returns than money deposits and may be wary of investing in 
the stock market. Investors should note however that this fund can still go down in value as 
well as up.
Fixed interest funds are generally considered lower risk than equities and so I have to 
consider the risk posed by the combination of those two funds. I note the combination of 
funds meant there were different types of assets which I think helped to diversify Ms Ss 
investments in the plan.Sun Life has said that Ms S was prepared to take the level of risk associated with these 
funds as her plan was intended to be held over the long term. It also says Ms S chose the 
funds so it says there must have been some discussion about the different funds and the 
risks posed. Ms Ss representative says she didnt want to take any risks with her pension.
I take into account that this was a top-up plan rather than Ms S s main pension. She already 
had an occupational pension scheme which represented the majority of her contributions 
and posed less risk. So, I think its likely that Ms S was willing to take more risk with this plan 
in the hope of achieving something like the level of return set out in the FSAVC illustration.
The contributions were also being made from her disposable income and I note that this plan 
was intended to be held until a notional retirement date of 60 years. So, it would be held for 
more than 20 years. On that basis I consider Ms S was willing to take this level of risk over 
the long term to try to achieve a reasonable return on her contributions and top up her 
pension.
Overall, I dont consider that the combination of funds posed more risk than Ms S was 
prepared to take, taking into account her circumstances and objectives.
Fair compensation
Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Ms Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax- 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Both parties were then given an opportunity to respond with any further representations they 
may wish to make. Both parties acknowledged and accepted my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and noting that both parties have accepted my provisional findings, my 
decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision. Putting things right
Fair compensation
Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Ms Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax- 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint and Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (UK) Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman