DRN-3342363
The complaint
Miss L complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) charged the £160 
annual fee to her Virgin Reward+ credit card without notice, and were then unfair in refusing 
to refund the fee. She also complains that it gave her poor service when she was trying to 
resolve the issue.
What happened
Miss L had a Virgin Reward+ credit card, which gave air-miles reward points whenever it 
was used. It had a £160 annual fee.
Due to the coronavirus pandemic, Miss L decided she was unable to take advantage of the 
air-miles, so thought a card with a lower, or no annual fee, would be more suitable.
Miss L contacted VM in September 2020 and explained she was looking to cancel her card 
as she couldnt make use of the air-miles. VM told her the £160 fee would renew on 
6 February 2021 and shed need to pay off the card in full and close the account before this 
date.
On 7 February 2021 VM charged the £160 annual fee to her account. Miss L complained, 
and asked VM for this to be refunded as she had told it in September 2020 that she wished 
to cancel her card. VM said it couldnt refund the fee as transactions had since been made 
on the card. Miss L explained the transactions were only small and were automatic 
subscriptions shed forgotten to cancel. VM maintained it wouldnt refund the fee. Miss L 
asked for a copy of her contract to be sent to her.
In its final response to her complaint, VM said the terms and conditions of the card account 
showed the annual fee would be added at the anniversary of the opening date, and 
confirmation of the annual fee was included on each statement. It said that during her call in 
September 2020 it had told her when the fee would be due and that she needed to clear the 
balance and close the account before the fee was charged. So VM said it was unable to 
refund this.
VM also told her that the reward points process was explained within her pre-contract 
agreement. And having checked her account it could see that shed benefitted from all the 
bonus points she was entitled to receive.
VM did however acknowledge and apologise for the problems Miss L had experienced in 
trying to speak to the right person on its telephone system while trying to resolve her 
complaint, and that she hadnt been sent a copy of her contract as she asked. It agreed to 
send the contract, and said it would pay her £30 compensation for the problems shed 
experienced.
Miss L wasnt happy with this response so complained to our service. She said, in summary;
Shed told VM in September 2020 that the card wasnt suitable, and so it shouldnt 
have taken the £160 annual fee in February 2021.
VM hadnt given her notice it was going to take the annual fee, nor had it given her 
advice on how to cancel the card.
VM had given her poor service with the length of time it took to resolve her complaint, 
the difficulties shed had when trying to call it, and how it hadnt sent a copy of her 
account contract as it said it would.
Our investigator didnt think VM needed to do anything more than it had already. He thought 
VM had done enough in making Miss L aware that the annual fee would be charged in 
February 2021. He also thought VM were fair in not refunding the fee, as Miss L had not 
contacted it to cancel the card prior to the fee being charged, and because shed used the 
card since. And he thought the £30 offered for the service issues Miss L had experienced 
was reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss L didnt agree. She said, in summary:
Shed still not been provided with a copy of her contract.
It was unfair if VM relied solely on emails to send her information as this could easily 
be missed.
Shed not received the £30 VM said it had sent her.
No financial institution should be allowed to make the process of annual card 
payments so ambiguous and complex.
Shed offered to pay off in full the transactions made after the fee was charged as 
these were the reason VM had used when it refused the refund.
VM responded by saying Miss L had been provided a copy of the terms and conditions of the 
account when she opened it. In this it had been made clear when the annual fee would be 
taken.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion of the investigator, for largely the same reasons. 
Miss L signed up for the VM credit card in February 2019. Shes said it was attractive as it 
would give her reward air-miles when she used it. And Ive seen a copy of the terms and 
conditions of her account, which show the fees and charges associated with it, along with 
the reward air-miles. So Im satisfied Miss L knew there was a £160 annual fee for the use of 
the card. 
But given the coronavirus pandemic in 2020 Miss L found she was unable to fly, so she 
understandably didnt want to continue paying the annual fee for a card which gave rewards 
she didnt think she could use. So Miss L called VM in September 2020, and our service has 
been given a recording of this call. She explained she had been trying to cancel the flights 
shed booked with the air-miles as she couldnt use them. And was looking to cancel her 
card. Miss L asked VM when the £160 fee renewed and when VM would be taking it.
VM told Miss L the fee would be renewed on 6 February 2021, so she would need to cancel 
the card before this date. It went on to explain shed need to pay off the card in full to do this. 
Given Miss L specifically asked when the next fee would be taken, I think it likely that she was planning to use the remaining period of the current contract and use her card as normal 
up to when the fee would be due. And then to cancel her card before the fee was charged.
Miss L has told our service that VM charged the fee without prior notification, so should 
refund the fee as shed told it she didnt need the card anymore. But I dont agree with her 
here. Ill explain why.
As Ive said above, I think it most likely that following her call to VM in September 2020, 
Miss L planned to cancel her card prior to the next fee being taken in February 2021, and Im 
satisfied that she was told in the call when this would happen. But VM have also shown that 
it sent Miss L an email on 7 January 2021 in which it gave information about the annual fee, 
and that if she didnt wish to pay it she would need to close her account. Miss L has told us 
that she never received this email, but I think it was more likely than not sent. I think this 
because VM have shown us the email address used matched what we have on record for 
Miss L, and it has a delivered report from its servers, dated the same day.
So although Miss L says she didnt receive the email, Im satisfied VM probably sent it 
correctly. And given she was also verbally told in September 2020 the date the fee would 
renew, Im satisfied that VM had done enough to ensure Miss L was aware of it. But 
unfortunately, I think it is likely that Miss L forgot to cancel her account as she had planned. 
As she hadnt done so prior to the anniversary of it being opened, Im satisfied that VM were 
entitled to charge the annual fee on 6 February 2021, and I cannot reasonably hold VM 
responsible for Miss L not closing the account. 
But I also need to be satisfied that VM were fair when it refused to refund the fee when 
asked to by Miss L. And I think it was. Had Miss L not used the card at all once the fee was 
charged I might be minded to think VM should refund it, but I can see from her account 
statements that the card was used seven times after the fee was charged. And although 
Miss L has said these were all automatic subscriptions that shed forgotten to cancel, she 
has still had the benefit of the use of the credit card. So I cant say that VM were unfair and 
so wont tell them to refund the £160 fee.
However, I can see how Miss L wouldve found it frustrating that she wasnt sent a new copy 
of her account contract, despite asking several times. And VM have acknowledged that she 
had problems trying to navigate its telephone system to talk to the department she wanted 
to. So I can see VM couldve done better here, and its apologised for the poor service it 
provided. It has offered Miss L £30 in recognition of the inconvenience it has caused her. 
And having looked closely at what has happened I think this amount is fair, and is generally 
in line with the type of award wed expect a business to make in these circumstances. VM 
has said the £30 cheque it previously sent to Miss L hasnt been cashed so it has been 
cancelled. 
My final decision
I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Miss L £30 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman