DRN-1168485
The complaint
Mrs N complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Lex Autolease 
Ltd (Lex) isnt of satisfactory quality.
       
What happened
Mrs N acquired a new car on 25 April 2018 from a main Mercedes dealership through a 
regulated hire agreement with Lex Autolease. The initial rental was £289.81 with 35 
additional rentals at £289.81.
Mrs N says that she noticed an issue with the gearbox of the car almost straightaway and it 
was difficult to get into first gear. The car has had 4 replacement gearboxes at approximately 
5,000-mile intervals all repaired under warranty. In July 2019 after the car had covered a 
total of around 22,000 miles the gearbox failed again and the garage refused to undertake 
another warranty repair. The garage has suggested that the repeated failures may be 
because of driving style and an inspection of the gearbox by the manufacturer would be 
required at a cost of £4,500. Mrs N does not want to pay this cost and so the car has been at 
the garage since 18 July 2019.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended that the complaint was upheld. 
She considered that based on all the evidence the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. She thought that it wasnt reasonable for a further repair to be attempted and 
Mrs N should be entitled to reject the car and have a refund of all payments made since 18 
July 2018.
Lex didnt agree and said that there was some evidence that the car had been driven at 
speed. It pointed out there had been damage to the underside and replacement brake pads 
and front tyres which would suggest that the car had been driven at speed with hard braking. 
It said that Mrs Ns son was the main driver of the car and so it was possible that this was 
the cause. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act gives a consumer an equal 
right to claim a refund against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if 
there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. The Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 implies a term into the contract that the goods should be of satisfactory 
quality.
There is no dispute that the car has had four replacement gearboxes and requires a further 
repair for the same fault. What is in dispute is whether the car was supplied to Mrs N with the 
fault with the gearbox there or developing or whether it has been caused by an aggressive 
driving style. 
The garage has not had the gearbox inspected and has provided no evidence about why it 
considers this repeated failure is caused by driving style. Lex has had the opportunity to 
have the gearbox inspected and has not done so. I dont have any independent evidence 
about why the gearbox has failed so often or what might have caused it. Mrs N has said that 
the car has not been driven aggressively. She has said that the car is driven by herself, her 
husband and her son. In these circumstances I have considered what is more likely than not 
to be the case.
I think that given the gearbox failed after around 4,000 miles on a brand-new car it is unlikely 
to be caused by driving style regardless of whether the car is being driven by Mrs N or any 
member of her family. It has failed at regular intervals since the repair and it seems more 
likely to me that there is an underlying fault that is causing the gearbox to repeatedly fail. 
I dont think it is likely that the car has been driven in such an aggressive way so as to 
require four replacement gear boxes without evidence of significant damage to other 
components. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that replacement brake pads and front 
tyres is in any way demonstrative of a driving style that would cause such a catastrophic 
gearbox failure every 5,000 miles or so. Even if, as appears to be suggested, the car is 
mainly driven by Mrs Ns son, there is no evidence about his driving style only an 
assumption that he drives at speed and brakes hard.
   
The garage has only raised the issue of driving style at the point of the last repair. I think that 
given that the gearbox had been replaced on four separate occasions if there was a potential 
issue with driving style it would have been identified and raised sooner. I can understand 
why Mrs N didnt want to pay £4,500 to have the gearbox sent away for inspection and I 
think that is reasonable in the circumstances. But if the garage and Lex consider that the 
fault is caused by driving style then it seems likely that there would be evidence of this 
aggressive driving that could be identified on inspection beyond replacement of wear and 
tear items like tyres and brake pads and evidence of some damage to the underside of the 
car. I have seen nothing that would suggest the type of driving style required to cause a 
failure of four gearboxes and it I think it is unlikely that even driving a car at speed with 
heavy braking would be enough to cause this level of failure on a brand-new high-quality 
build car.
On balance, based on the evidence I have seen, I think that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the time it was supplied to Mrs N.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that a further repair is unlikely to be successful and Mrs N 
should be entitled to reject the car. The car should be collected at no cost to Mrs N and the 
agreement ended with nothing further to pay. Any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ns 
credit file about this agreement should be removed. 
Mrs N has been without the use of the car since 18 July 2019 and so I think that all rentals 
paid after this date should be refunded.
I also think that this has caused Mrs N considerable trouble and upset, and Lex should pay 
her £200 to reflect this.
I understand that the garage has recently begun to invoice Mrs N for storage charges 
because of the time that this matter has been ongoing. I would expect Lex Autolease to 
reimburse Mrs N for any charges she has had to pay if they are enforced against her by the 
garage. Otherwise Mrs N may need to bring a further complaint about this aspect.    My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Lex Autolease Ltd should put things right 
as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman