DRN-1611014
complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about three loans he took with Gain Credit LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream. Mr S says these loans were unaffordable and given to him irresponsibly. 
background
Lending Stream provided Mr S with three instalment loans between July 2015 and February 
2016. Mr Ss borrowing history is detailed below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to the significant break in borrowing between loans 1 and 2 the loans are part of two 
separate lending chains.  
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
Combined 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 25/07/2015 10/08/2015 6 £200.00 £92.80
 
2 23/02/2016 07/07/2017 6 £200.00 £86.40
3 25/02/2016 20/05/2018 6 £500.00 £302.40An adjudicator wrote to Mr S and explained why she didnt think Lending Stream was wrong 
to give Mr S any of his loans. The adjudicator explained that for all three loans Lending 
Stream had gathered an appropriate amount of information and the loans were affordable 
based on what Mr S told them. 
Mr S did not agree with this view and explained that he was in financial difficulties so the 
loans shouldnt have been provided. As no agreement could be reached, the case was 
passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about all of this, I dont think Lending Stream has treated Mr S 
unfairly or that it should pay him compensation. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr S and Id like to explain why I think this is the case.
Mr S was provided with three high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So 
Lending Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is that Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able 
to understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr S before providing it.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders 
checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be 
less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify 
that information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed 
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In his complaint Mr S he entered into a debt management plan whilst the loans were running 
and Lending Stream wouldve know this. Lending Stream says that it carried out adequate 
checks  by gathering details of Mr Ss income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit 
check. And based on this Lending Stream says it didnt see anything to alert it to any 
sustainability or affordability issues for the loans it gave Mr S.
Its important to note that when Mr S took out his first loan with Lending Stream it 
doesnt seem that he had an existing relationship with them. The first loan was to be repaid 
over six instalments of around £92.80. Mr S had told Lending Stream that his monthly 
income was around £1,875 and he had a monthly expenditure of around £800. Based on this 
information it seems that loan 1 was affordable for Mr S and I cant see anything to suggest 
Lending Stream shouldve been aware of Mr Ss financial issues at this stage. 
Loan 2 was taken out over six months after Mr Ss first, so it can be considered as a new 
lending chain. Loan 2 was for the same amount as loan 1 and also due to be repaid over 6 
months. Mr Ss income and expenditure had remained broadly the same as they were for 
loan 1. And Mr S hadnt had any issues repaying loan 1. Based on this it seems reasonable 
for Lending Stream to have approved Mr Ss application. Loan 3 was taken out a few days after loan 2 and was for double the amount. However, 
given Mr Ss income and expenditure the monthly combined repayment for both loans of 
£302.40 was still affordable for Mr S.   
So, looking at the monthly repayments in light of Mr Ss declared disposable income its 
difficult for me to conclude that Lending Stream was wrong to decide that the repayments 
would be affordable sustainably for Mr S. I note what he says about having multiple other 
pay day loans and having financial issues. But Lending Stream carried out credit checks on 
Mr S when he took out the loans. And looking at the results of these there isnt anything on 
them that wouldve alerted Lending Stream to the extent of these issues. So, I dont think 
there were adequate signs which shouldve led Lending Stream to do more checks and Ive 
not seen enough evidence to persuade me that it acted irresponsibly in the circumstances of 
this case.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman