DRN-4049720
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that PrePay Technologies Limited suspended its account 
and didnt tell it what would be involved in opening a replacement.
What happened
G had a branded e-money account which was opened in 2017 and operated through 
PrePay. In December 2021 it discovered that its account had been suspended. This was due 
to a director resigning about 18 months earlier. It was told it would need to open a new 
account but not that a Euro denominated sub account would no longer be available and that 
direct debits would need to be manually changed. G wants to be compensated for the 
inconvenience and loss of business that resulted.
PrePay said that during a routine check it discovered that one of the two directors of G had 
resigned. He was the nominated manager for Gs account. And so, it suspended the 
account. When the other director got in touch it removed the suspension and told G that it 
either needed to open a new account or provide details of an account elsewhere to which 
the funds could be transferred. It said that at some point it had stopped offering a Euro 
account. And there was a period when new accounts couldnt receive international 
payments. It said that G had been placed on a waiting list for a Euro account and that G 
should use a third party in the meantime. PrePay also stated that there was a new third-party 
provider. And that G couldnt switch direct debits to an account with that provider. It accepted 
that G hadnt been informed of the implications of opening a new account and offered it £50 
in compensation. It said it would consider any claim for compensation if G provided 
evidence. At the time of the final response letter of 17 January 2022 G had both a new and 
old account open and this continued until April 2022 to allow G to pay invoices and make 
other arrangements.
Our investigator didnt recommend that PrePay do anything further. G hadnt informed 
PrePay about the change in director. This service wouldnt interfere with the operational 
processes and so be in a position to tell PrePay what services to offer or how accounts could 
be switched. The compensation was sufficient.
G didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. The compensation didnt take into 
account the time and stress involved and the account shouldnt have been frozen while 
things were resolved.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 27 February 2023. I set out below what I said.
Through our investigator I asked PrePay to provide further information about what 
happened. And why a new account was required. I wanted to know more about the process 
for a director swap and understood that this had now been changed. I wanted to know how 
the changes to the account terms and facilities had been communicated to G. PrePay said 
that the previous director of G was associated with the account and so a different director 
would have to open a new account. And to go through the exact same process as a new 
customer. It didnt have the technology to allow switches. It was taking steps to change this 
going forward. The Euro sub account was a feature that would have been withdrawn 
irrespective of the change in director and was due to licence restrictions. If a different 
director was to open an account it would have new details including sort code and account 
and it didnt offer a switch service and so this would be an administrative task for the account 
holder. It provided copies of its terms and conditions but didnt refer me specifically to any 
sections in this.
I looked at the main issues as follows:
The account being suspended
My understanding of the way in which the original account operated is that there was one 
administrator. That was the now former director of G. I didnt think it was unreasonable for 
PrePay to suspend the account when this was discovered as it couldnt be satisfied he had 
authority to act for G any longer. I also thought that G ought to have told PrePay about this 
at the time as this was material. I noted that the account was suspended on 8 December 
2021 and G was invited to contact PrePay. The other director did so on 23 December 2021 
and the account was reinstated on 29 December 2021 when PrePay was satisfied that G 
had authorised the former director to operate its account.
The new account
On 29 December 2021 the director of G was also given two options. One was to open a new 
branded account. PrePay stated that at the moment we dont have a solution that allows 
you to keep the existing account as the new account holder. It could open a brand-new 
account. Or if G didnt want an account it could transfer funds to an account at a different 
financial business. There was no mention of the loss of the Euro sub account or that G 
would need manually to transfer direct debits.
The process
G applied for a new account on 3 January 2022, and this was approved. It was only on 6 
January 2022 that G was notified about the issue with the Euro account. And that at the time 
international payments couldnt be received into the new account even when converted to 
Sterling. On 7 January 2022 PrePay explained that a switch to the new account couldnt be 
arranged due to discrepancies between the existing and now new third-party provider. 
When answering why G hadnt been told about this its response was Even if we sent you a 
long e-mail with all terms and process for Director swap especially for the [G] account you 
would read them for a few hours and have no choice to keep or close the account because it 
was supposed to be closed. The director of G responded If I had known I was not getting a 
like for like account and had to manually resolve the switch I would have looked for another 
provider or banking services.
The outcome
G had both accounts operating for a period which allowed it to deal with invoices and 
currency payments. Id seen reference to this being the position at least until 15 April 2022. I 
understood that G has now made other arrangements for its currency payments.My assessment
As Id said I didnt find it unreasonable that Gs account was suspended as PrePay didnt 
know whether the former director had authority to operate the account. He was the only 
named person for G and effectively the mandate holder. I thought G had a reasonable 
opportunity to and ought to have told PrePay about the change, especially given the way 
that the account was set up. I bore in mind though that the other director had been in place 
all the time that the account had been with PrePay and whether the account administrator or 
not would it seem have been verified as part of due diligence when the account was opened.
I considered that the issues with the new account related to business changes at PrePay. In 
my view it wouldnt be generally common for a limited company to need to open a new 
account if a director changed. 
I noted that under the terms and conditions of the account (at Section 15) G should have 
been given two months notice of a change in any terms or services to allow it to make other 
arrangements. It wasnt provided with all the information it needed to make an informed 
decision. And this led to needless inconvenience when it would otherwise have looked for an 
account elsewhere. In the event it did have to make other arrangements for currency 
payments. I took into account that G was able to operate the old account in the meantime 
and so effectively had such notice of change. And that if it had opened a new account at a 
different financial business it would still have needed manually to transfer direct debits as 
there was no switching possible.
The director of G has asked me to consider her distress. I didnt doubt that she was 
distressed and frustrated by what happened. But as G is the complainant here and a 
separate legal entity that cant suffer distress I said I wouldnt be able to make any award for 
that. 
I could look at the inconvenience for G. It has set out the number of hours spent on this. We 
dont tend to make awards for units of time or apply professional rates. Id also taken into 
account our published guidelines about compensation. Having done so I considered that the 
appropriate total amount of compensation is £400, and which includes the £50 already 
offered. This reflects the misinformation, the need to duplicate account opening processes at 
a different financial business and the poor service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G said it had nothing further to add and supported my decision. 
PrePay said that even though it thought that the compensation was on the high side it would 
agree with the provisional decision.
In light of this comment, I did review the level of compensation again. For the reasons I gave 
before I consider its fair. That being the case I see no basis to depart from the conclusions 
of my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require PrePay Technologies Limited to pay 
G a total of £400.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman