DRN-3381444
The complaint
Mr L has complained about his motor insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited, in 
respect of a claim he made to it after he was involved in an incident with a parked lorry.
What happened
Mr L notified Admiral that he had been manoeuvring around the left hand side of a parked 
lorry when the lorry moved and collided with Mr Ls drivers side door and wing mirror, 
causing some moderate damage (to the drivers side wing mirror, with a dent and scratches 
to the door). Admiral said it thought he had been at fault for the accident. 
Having seen photos of Mr Ls car, and having considered its market value, Admiral said it 
was treating the car as a total loss. Mr L was unhappy about that, the way hed been spoken 
to and in respect of some advice hed been given, which he felt was poor. He withdrew his 
claim. Admiral said it would cancel his policy unless he got an MOT showing the car was 
roadworthy. Mr L got an MOT but Admiral cancelled the policy in the meantime and then 
reinstated it. Mr L was charged a £25 admin fee. 
Mr L, remaining unhappy with Admiral, later asked to cancel the policy. He believed that as 
hed withdrawn his claim hed be able to obtain a partial refund of premium. Admiral said it 
couldnt refund the premium as it had received and dealt with a claim from the insurer for the 
lorry. Mr L was upset as he hadnt been told about any claim made in respect of the lorry. 
Admiral said it wasnt part of its process to tell policyholders this type of information, not 
unless they ask.
But Admiral did accept it had given Mr M some poor service. So it offered him £50 
compensation. And said it would reimburse Mr L the £25 admin fee charged when it had 
cancelled then reinstated Mr Ls policy. Mr L complained to us.
Our investigator felt that Admirals decisions and responses, including the offer of 
compensation (although she referred to a higher amount), had been fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. Mr L remained unhappy. Our investigator, having checked with Admiral, 
assured Mr L that it would be sending him details of the claim it had dealt with for the lorry 
driver. Mr L wasnt prepared to accept our investigators findings. So his complaint was 
passed to me to consider.
I felt the complaint should be upheld as I thought Admiral hadnt always dealt fairly with Mr L. 
And it needed to do a number of things to put matters right. But I wasnt minded to make it 
review its total loss decision or revise the market value of £615 it had ascribed to the car.
Admiral responded to my findings stating it had nothing further to add. Mr L said he was 
pleased by them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
total loss
Mr L made a claim to Admiral and it was then up to it to assess it. Insurers will often want to 
examine a car  but not always. Completing assessments and the like come at a cost. So an 
insurer will sometimes make a business decision as to whether its worth expending that kind 
of outlay. In some situations  where a car is older for example, with a limited market value  
an insurer might decide that dealing with the matter without a formal assessment, thereby 
keeping the claim outlay to a minimum, is a reasonable way forwards. I think that is what 
Admiral did here and, in principle, I dont think that was an unfair thing for it to do.
But I say in principle, because Admiral still has to take care, when doing that, to come to a 
reasonable decision in respect of Mr Ls car. I see that it was one of Admirals in-house 
engineers that made the total loss decision. An engineer, in this context, is seen to be an 
expert and their opinion carries weight. I see the engineer referred to a trade guide  used 
for finding the value of second-hand cars  to determine the likely market value for the car. 
And took into account that it did have some signs of wear  such as to the bumpers. The 
engineer appears to have taken into account that wear of this nature would affect the market 
value for the car, and Ive no reason to think the engineer was likely wrong in this respect. 
I think, given the detail available, a reasonable decision was made. 
Id add that Ive considered the trade guides and applied the sum the engineer factored in for 
the wear of the car. Using two trade guides, and taking into account the effect of the wear, 
generates an average market value for the car of £582. I see from Admirals file that it first 
valued Mr Ls car at £500, and later this was revised to £615. I think its reasonable to 
discount the first value as its quite a bit lower than the average Ive found. But Admirals 
value of £615 was in the region of £582. So, I think £615 is a fair value and means Admiral 
completed a reasonable costing exercise.
I know that Mr L would like the cost of a repair he undertook before the accident taking into 
account. But when a car is sold it is expected to be in good running order. So the cost of 
normal maintenance and repair, such as Mr L paid for, doesnt usually increase what the car 
would sell for. So if Mr L had looked to sell his car immediately after her repaired it, before 
the accident occurred, he wouldnt have seen the cost he had paid for repair reflected in the 
price he was reasonably able to ask for, or likely to attain, when selling the car.
I appreciate that Mr L is frustrated at having his car declared a total loss on the basis of 
some relatively minor cosmetic damage. But, given the limited market value for the car it 
seems likely to me that even the limited damage sustained would make it an uneconomical 
proposition for an insurer to repair. And that would make it a total loss for insurance 
purposes. Admiral, like most insurers I'm aware of, follows an industry recognised code of 
practice that requires it to register a car as a total loss shortly after making that 
determination. Thats what it did in this case and I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably. 
So Im not going to require it to review or revise that. 
Admiral cancelling the policy and demanding an MOT
Because the car was viewed as a total loss, Admiral cancelled Mr Ls policy. The policy did 
entitle it to do that. Therefore, on the face of it, Admiral did nothing wrong. However, Admiral 
had told Mr L that it wouldnt do this straightaway. And, upon review, it noted it had known 
Mr L was keeping the car. So it accepted it shouldnt have cancelled the policy as it did. The 
policy had been reinstated at a cost to Mr L of £25. In light of the fact it had determined it 
shouldnt have cancelled the policy, Admiral reimburse this amount to Mr L, I think that 
reasonably put him in the position he should have been in without the error occurring. But it doesnt account for the distress and inconvenience the error caused. Ill take that into 
account when I consider compensation.  
I know Mr L is worried that he might have driven whilst being uninsured. But he didnt do so, 
as far as I'm aware he was always covered when he was driving his car. That means he 
suffered no more than a bit of worry about what might have been as a result of Admirals 
actions. And that isnt something I usually award compensation for. 
When talking with Mr L about the damage to the car, Admiral had required him to obtain an 
MOT. Its engineer said it wasnt clear if the door might be structurally damaged. I think that 
whether this was a question of continuing the cover of reinstating it following its cancellation, 
it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral to have asked for an MOT to be done. Admiral wanted to 
be sure the car was still a risk it wanted to offer cover for. I note that the car was driveable, 
an MOT could be completed at minimal cost (compared to what it might cost Admiral to send 
an engineer to check the car) and Mr L had withdrawn his claim. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to insist on an MOT being obtained. 
I know that when Mr L got the MOT, the door wasnt mentioned as an issue. But that doesnt 
mean that Admirals engineers concern that the dented door might have posed a safety risk 
was unfounded. Rather the door not being mentioned on the MOT only serves to show it 
didnt pose a safety risk  and it was exactly that which Admiral wanted to be satisfied of in 
order to continue insuring the car.
Not telling Mr L about a claim from the other driver
Mr L told us that when he tried to cancel the policy, Admiral told him he wouldnt get a refund 
of any premium as it has dealt with a claim from the lorry drivers insurer. Mr L was unhappy 
as this was the first hed heard about a claim from the lorry driver. 
I note Admiral has said its processes dont allow for it to tell a policyholder about its handling 
of a claim like this. Further, Admiral says it will tell a policyholder once a claim from another 
driver is concluded, or if the policyholder asks about what is happening. But Im not 
persuaded thats reasonable. Mr L is the policyholder and I think its wholly reasonable that 
he would want to know about activity occurring on his policy, especially where a claim has 
been made against him. Not least because it affects the claims history he could be required 
to give to other potential insurers. While Mr Ls policy, as most in the market do, allows 
Admiral to handle the other drivers claim and make decisions on it without seeking Mr Ls 
agreement, that doesnt mean its reasonable to keep him in the dark about what is 
happening. It simply isnt and I fully understand Mr Ls frustration in this respect. Ill be talking 
that into account when I think about compensation.
I know Mr L doesnt actually believe Admiral has had a claim from the lorry driver  that its 
contrived the claim to prevent it from needing to reimburse him any premium. But Ive seen 
its file notes that reflect a claim was received and dealt with. And its clear to me that, from 
the outset, based on what Mr L told it about the accident, that it viewed him as being at fault. 
So I can understand why, when the lorry drivers insurer approached it, Admiral accepted 
liability for the reported damage without question. 
Mr Ls withdrawal of his claim
When Mr L was discussing his claim with Admiral, he seems to have made a decision to 
withdraw it based on the fact that otherwise his loss would be recorded as a fault claim 
which would affect his premium. Seemingly to avoid that occurring and because he was 
aware that any settlement Admiral might pay to him wouldnt be more than a few hundred 
pounds, he withdrew his claim. He was also clearly of the understanding that as there wasnt 
(as far as he was aware) a claim on the policy, he could cancel for a refund of unused 
premium. But the claim from the lorry driver was just as capable of affecting Mr Ls future premiums as any claim Mr L made against his own policy. And the lorry drivers claim also 
meant Mr L wasnt entitled to a premium refund upon cancellation. But Admiral didnt explain 
that to Mr L. So it seems to me that Mr L made the decision to withdraw his claim without 
being given all the relevant facts necessary to allow him to make an informed decision in this 
respect. I dont think that was fair of Admiral.
Now Admiral may say that the claim from the lorry driver only came later, after Mr L had 
withdrawn his claim. But Admiral could have chosen at that time to tell Mr L about the lorry 
drivers claim, letting Mr L know what this meant for his cover. I think it would then have been 
reasonable for it to have also asked Mr L if he wanted to review the decision that hed made 
to withdraw his own claim. I cant be sure if he would have done. But given;
he could no longer protect his future premium;
he wouldnt be entitled to any premium refund on cancellation;
the total loss marker applied to his car couldnt be changed;
the car was still drivable and Mr L could keep it;
I cant see why he wouldnt have wanted the benefit of the cash settlement hed have been 
entitled to in settlement of a claim for the cars total loss. If Mr L confirms to Admiral that he 
does want his claim for his damaged car to be logged, it should do so and then settle it. The 
fair market value for the car set by Admiral, as I said above, was £615. From that sum 
Admiral can deduct Mr Ls policy excess of £250 and an amount for salvage because Mr L 
is keeping the car. That leaves Admiral needing to pay Mr L, assuming Mr L agrees to 
progress the claim, £266.60.
As I said above, I think Mr L, given the right information, would have decided quite some 
time ago to progress the claim. Assuming he does so now, I think Admiral should add 
interest to the settlement sum at 8% simple a year from the date it acknowledged the lorry 
drivers claim until settlement is made. 
compensation 
From what I can see, Admiral only offered Mr L £50 compensation. It sent him a cheque for 
£75.00, which was the £50 plus the £25 admin fee refund. But I dont know if that cheque 
was cashed. In any event. I dont think £50 is fair and reasonable compensation. Having 
considered everything, I note that Mr L has had to sort out reinstating the policy when 
Admiral cancelled against an agreement it had made with Mr L not to do so. I accept this 
was also frustrating for him. And Ive also noted above that Admiral should have told Mr L 
about the lorry drivers claim. I can understand why Mr L was worried and concerned when 
he found out about that. I also note that Admiral itself accepts that one of its call handlers 
didnt deal with Mr L in a particularly professional manner. I can see that would have been 
upsetting for Mr L. Overall I think that fair and reasonable compensation for him is a total of 
£250. If Admiral has paid any part of that already  and if thats been by cheque, if the 
cheque has been cashed  it will now only have to pay the difference outstanding.  
As Admiral hasnt raised any further comment for me to consider, and Mr L is pleased with 
my findings, Ive no need to change them. My provisional findings are now those of this, my 
final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
If Mr L confirms he wants his claim progressed, log the claim and pay Mr L £266.60 in 
full and final settlement of it  being the market value (which takes into account 
pre-accident damage) after the policy excess and an amount for salvage (allowing Mr L 
to keep the car) are applied. On the settlement sum, add interest* from the date the lorry drivers claim was 
acknowledged until payment is made.
Pay Mr L a total of £250 compensation. If any part of that sum has been paid already 
(with any cheques sent having been cashed by Mr L), only the difference remaining now 
needs to be paid. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr L, it should tell him how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman