DRN-2870974
The complaint
Miss K, on behalf of the estate of Mr K, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) didnt close Mr Ks current account when it should have done, and generally dealt 
with the closure poorly.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in April 2021, which set out the background to the case and 
what I was minded to decide:
Mr K sadly passed away in July 2019. Miss K says she visited a NatWest 
branch shortly after, and provided the information needed to close his current 
account. She says NatWest confirmed the closure and paid her the balance 
of around £45 in cash.
In February 2020, NatWest sent the estate a letter confirming it had closed 
Mr Ks credit card account with a nil balance.
Later, Miss K received letters from an energy company pursuing money in 
relation to Mr K. When she requested statements from NatWest to help her 
deal with this matter, she discovered Mr Ks current account was still open 
and had a balance of around £1,600.
Miss K complained to NatWest about this. In summary, she said:
oThe documents shed provided in branch hadnt been passed to its 
bereavement team. As a result, a direct debit had left the account.
oThe wording of its condolence letter was inappropriate
oShed been given the balance in cash and told the account was 
closed, but that wasnt the case
oNatWest was refusing to close the account and release the balance
NatWest said it had no record of the branch visit, but admitted it should have 
acted to close the current account when it closed the credit card. It said it was 
now arranging the closure and would refund the payments taken since Mr Ks 
death. It also said it had a standard bereavement letter, but it would pass on 
Miss Ks feedback. 
In February 2021, NatWest released the current account funds to the estate, 
including the two bill payments that had been taken after Mr Ks death.
Miss K referred the matter to our service. Our investigator agreed that 
NatWest should have closed the account sooner. She recommended it should 
pay Miss K £150 compensation.
Miss K has now asked for an ombudsmans decision. Shes unhappy with the 
compensation, and says NatWest has allowed companies to steal money 
from Mr K dating back to 2018.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Before explaining my provisional findings, I need to clarify what I can and cant 
consider. The complaint referred to us relates to how NatWest handled matters after 
Miss K says she notified it of Mr Ks death. So I cant consider any issues that 
occurred prior to that. Ive let Miss K know how she can refer any earlier issues to 
NatWest or our service as a separate complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I agree with our investigator that 
NatWest caused Miss K undue trouble and upset. It acknowledges that she 
shouldnt have needed to notify it again of Mr Ks death. And it clearly knew about 
this when it closed his credit card account. I can see it was distressing and 
inconvenient for her to find out that the current account had been left open. 
However, Im not minded to award £150 compensation.
This is because the complainant here is the estate of Mr K  not Miss K personally. 
And our role is to redress losses suffered by the complainant due to business 
errors. So I cant make an award for her own distress and inconvenience. But I can 
award for losses to the estate caused by NatWests errors. So Ive considered 
whether the estate has lost out.
Ive considered what Miss K has told us about her initial branch visit around August 
2019. NatWest has no record of this. And the money she says she was paid wasnt 
debited from the account. So its unclear what happened. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen  including Miss Ks recollections of the branch visit  I cant safely 
conclude that NatWest ought to have closed Mr Ks current account at that point.
However, I can see that NatWest knew Mr K had passed away by February 2020. It 
sent the estate a letter confirming it was closing his credit card account with a nil 
balance. At that point, it should have initiated the closure of the current account too, 
requesting any records it needed from the estate to do that. If it had, it seems likely 
the estate would have received the funds from the current account around February 
2020. Miss K had the death certificate and grant of probate, so the closure ought to 
have been reasonably straightforward. But the estate didnt receive the funds until 
February 2021.
To compensate the estate for the loss of use of these funds, Im minded to direct 
NatWest to pay 8% simple interest per year on the current account balance its 
already paid. This interest would run from February 2020  when I think NatWest 
ought to have paid the estate  to February 2021  when it actually paid them.
In making this award, Ive considered that two (apparent) bill payments were taken 
from the current account after Mr Ks death. But NatWest has already refunded 
these. They were included in the balance it paid in February 2021. The only other 
payments taken went to Mr Ks credit card account, prior to that closing. These 
havent caused the estate a loss, as they were used to repay Mr Ks debt. So based 
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied NatWests errors havent caused any further loss to 
the estate.
I appreciate how upsetting this complaint has been for Miss K, and I know this isnt 
the answer she was hoping for. But based on what Ive seen, Im minded to 
conclude that the interest award Im proposing is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint.I invited both parties to submit any further evidence or comments. NatWest hasnt added 
anything. Miss K says she wants the following points addressed:
Her father should have been contacted about any changes to money taken from the 
bank account, such as people/companies stealing more and more money.
NatWest should have shut the account down when she took in all the information to 
close the account. As it didnt, money continued to be stolen.
She had to fight to get the money back, and some of it had been stolen. She says 
she should get that money back as well as compensation for her stress. The £150 
compensation was proposed by the investigator rather than her, and she thinks that 
sum is a joke given what shes going through.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
Miss K says her father should have been contacted about changes to payments. My 
provisional decision already explained that issues relating to what happened before Mr K 
passed away dont fall within the scope of this case. So I cant address that point further. 
Also, NatWest has refunded the money taken by other people/companies since Mr K passed 
away. So there is no outstanding loss to address in relation to this.
Ive considered what Miss K has told us about her branch visit to close the account. For the 
reasons given in my provisional decision, I cant safely conclude that the account should 
have closed until February 2020. So thats the point at which I think NatWest ought to pay 
interest  to compensate the estate for the loss of use of the funds. 
I appreciate how upsetting this complaint has been for Miss K. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, my role isnt to compensate her for her personal distress and inconvenience. I 
can only redress loss suffered by the estate. Ive seen nothing to substantiate that it was 
impacted beyond the loss of use of the funds. So Ive concluded that the interest award I 
proposed in my provisional decision is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I 
direct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay the estate of Mr K 8% simple interest per year 
on the balance it paid from his current account, from February 2020 to February 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman