DRN-2217320
The complaint
Mr P complains that NCO Europe Limited unfairly recorded late payments relating to a 
finance arrangement on his credit file. He wants these markers removed and compensation.
What happened
Mr P tells us that he arranged to pay the account NCO was administering on behalf of the 
debt owner through a direct debit arrangement with a business Ill refer to as PL. He says 
that whilst he paid PL on time, it didnt always forward the payment on to NCO by the 
required date. As a consequence, he says that NCO has now recorded late payment 
markers with the credit reference agencies (CRA) to which it reports. Mr P says he doesnt 
think he should be penalised for an issue which is outside his direct control.
NCO told us that in some months payments hadnt been received by the required date. 
Although theyd been received soon after. It said it had accurately recorded these late 
payments with CRAs even though it accepted it hadnt been Mr P at fault.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. And he felt NCO should 
remove the late payment markers. He said that reports to CRAs had to be both accurate 
and fair. He felt it likely the reason for the delays was that payments had been processed 
late in those months affected by the festive period and Bank Holidays. He didnt think this 
could be blamed on Mr P.
Mr P accepted the investigators view. NCO didnt accept this outcome. It said the reports it 
had made to the CRAs had been accurate. As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no factual dispute in this case. It appears simply to be that NCO is unwilling to 
remove the late payment markers as it received the payments after the date required. And 
its position is that as it recorded this information accurately it shouldnt be required to remove 
it.
The Information Commissioners Office has issued guidance on the principles that should be 
used when data is reported to CRAs. This includes a requirement that the information is fair, 
accurate, consistent, complete and up to date.
In its response to our investigators view, NCO accepted that the fault for the processing of 
the payments outside the required timeline lay with PL not with Mr P. But it hasnt, in my 
opinion, provided an adequate explanation as to why in these circumstances it also 
considers it fair to record these late payments against his credit file.
Its correct to say that its the responsibility of the debtor to ensure payments are made on 
time. But having set up a direct debit and funded the account from which this would be 
taken, its hard to see how anyone can do more. The customer wouldnt know the payments 
had arrived late until after the event. By which time  if the logic applied by NCO were to be 
accepted  it would be too late to rectify matters.
In summary, this is not a case where payments havent been made on time due to any error 
or omission by Mr P. And its not fair that his credit record should be adversely affected by 
matters outside his control. Even if hed changed the account or date on which the payments 
were taken theres no guarantee the same issue wouldnt have arisen.
Ive reached the same conclusion as that of our investigator that it was not fair for NCO to 
record the late payment markers in these circumstances. Im upholding the complaint and 
Im going to require NCO to have the relevant markers removed. I also agree that this is not 
a case where I need to award compensation, as the information reported was accurate.
Putting things right
NCO should arrange as soon as possible for the four late payment markers (January 2019, 
May 2019, December 2019, January 2020) in relation to Mr Ps account to be removed from 
all the credit reference agencies files to which it reports.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement of the complaint I require NCO Europe Limited to take the action 
that Ive stipulated in the immediately preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman