DRN-3953054
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that his debit card for the bank account he holds with The Co-operative 
Bank Plc stopped working.
What happened
Mr H tried to withdraw money from an ATM using his Co-op Bank debit card but found that it 
had stopped working. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Co-op Bank responded and explained that their records indicated that Mr H had used an 
incorrect personal identity number (PIN) on several occasions when trying to use the debit 
card, which had resulted in his debit card being blocked. And Co-op Bank further explained 
to Mr H what steps he needed to take to remove the block on his debit card. Mr H wasnt 
satisfied with Co-op Banks response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Co-op Banks response to 
the complaint was fair and reasonable, and they didnt feel Co-op Bank should fairly be 
instructed to do anything further beyond that response. Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Co-op Bank have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr H has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr H for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr H notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr H and Co-op Bank. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Mr H has explained to this service that hes certain that he hasnt forgotten his PIN for the 
Co-op Bank debit card and that therefore it cant be the case that the debit card wont work 
because its been blocked for repeated incorrect PIN inputs as Co-op Bank suggest.
But Co-op have provided this service with screenshots of their internal systems which show 
that they do have record of repeated incorrect PIN inputs by Mr H. And so, Im satisfied that 
it was for this reason  that Co-op Bank have record of repeated incorrect PIN inputs  that 
Co-op Bank blocked Mr Hs debit card and required him to contact them to resolve the issue.
Co-op Banks position doesnt seem unreasonable to me. And even if it were the case that 
Co-op Bank had made an error in regard to recording incorrect PIN inputs from Mr H  which 
seems unlikely to me  I feel that the clear explanation of this matter given to Mr H by Co-op 
Bank in their response to his complaint, which included a phone number for Mr H to call to 
request a new PIN, did provide Mr H with a reasonable means of resolving this matter.
However, it appears that while Mr H did telephone Co-op Bank as requested, he did so in 
regard to a previous complaint that had already been considered by this service and which 
wasnt a factor in why his debit card wasnt working for him at that time, And he didnt 
engage with Co-op Bank about resolving the issue of his PIN regarding Co-op Bank having 
record of several incorrect PIN inputs, as I feel Mr H reasonably could and should have 
done, and which in all likelihood would have resulted in the issuance of a new PIN to Mr H 
which would have resolved this issue with his debit card.
Ultimately, given all the above, I dont feel that Co-op Bank have done anything wrong here. 
Its my understanding that Mr H no longer has the debit card in question, and so if Mr H 
would like a replacement debit card from Co-op Bank, I can only encourage him to contact 
Co-op Bank directly and request a replacement debit card from them.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Co-op Bank to take any further action here. I hope 
that Mr H will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman