DRN-3011574
The complaint
Mr K and Mr E complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K and Mr E have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with a building 
society.
On 8 March 2020, Mr K booked a flight for Mr E to travel abroad the next day, 9 March 2020. 
However, on 9 March 2020, Mr E awoke with dizziness and body aches. And Mr K had a 
temperature. Given concerns about the spread of Covid-19, Mr E decided not to travel and I 
understand Mr K and Mr E both self-isolated for around three to four days afterwards, 
although Mr E felt better on the following day. Mr K and Mr E made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for the costs associated with cancelling the holiday.
UKI turned down the claim. It said Mr Es symptoms werent associated with Covid-19. And it 
said the policy terms required policyholders to provide evidence to show that cancellation 
had been medically necessary. As Mr K and Mr E hadnt provided such evidence, it wasnt 
satisfied that Mr E had shown he wasnt fit to travel.
Mr K and Mr E werent happy with UKIs decision and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She considered the policy terms 
and she considered itd been fair for UKI to conclude that Mr E hadnt shown he had a valid 
claim on the policy. So she felt itd been fair for UKI to turn down the claim.
Mr K and Mr E disagreed. They said that in the circumstances, they couldnt have got a GPs 
letter. They stated that theyd been following government guidance against travel. They 
referred to a text message from their GP which stated that they shouldnt visit the surgery or 
call the GP if they had symptoms of Covid-19.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K and Mr E, I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr K and Mr Es policy and the circumstances of their claim.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr K and Mr Es contract 
with UKI. The policy does provide cover for cancellation due to a policyholders illness. 
However, the policy also includes both general and specific claims conditions. The first says:
You must give us all the information, original documents and help that we need to process 
your claim. This includes medical certificates, details of your home insurance and any other 
relevant insurance policy. You must pay any costs required to get this information.
The cancellation section of the policy also includes the following term:
To claim for the costs of cancelling your trip, you must provide these documents at your own 
cost:
 Relevant medical certificates from a doctor if you cancelled your trip due to death, injury, 
illness or quarantine.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to demonstrate that they 
have a valid claim on their policy. This means that the burden of proof rests with Mr K and 
Mr E to provide enough evidence to show that Mr Es illness caused him to cancel his 
holiday.
In this case - while I dont doubt that Mr E decided against travelling due to his symptoms of 
dizziness and body aches - I think it was reasonable for UKI to want to be satisfied that 
these symptoms meant it was medically necessary for him to cancel his trip. Theres no 
dispute that Mr E didnt obtain a certificate completed by his GP to show that his symptoms 
meant he was unable to travel. And neither is there any evidence to suggest he called the 
NHS-111 service to obtain advice. So I find it was reasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr E 
hasnt shown it was medically necessary to cancel his trip.
Ive considered what Mr K and Mr E have said about government advice relating to Covid-19 
and the text they received from their GP surgery, which told patients not to call or visit the 
surgery. I note though that the date shown on the text message was 12 March 2020  three 
days after Mr E had cancelled his holiday. So I dont think this is persuasive evidence that Mr 
E couldnt have seen or spoken to a GP prior to that date to request the completion of a 
medical certificate. 
Ive also borne in mind what the government advice relating to Covid-19 was on 9 March 
2020, together with the fact that Mr E wasnt suffering with typical symptoms of Covid-19. At 
the relevant time, government advice was largely business as usual with advice for people 
to wash their hands more often. The government didnt suggest seven-day self-isolation for 
Covid-19 symptoms (a cough or high temperature) until 12 March 2020. Even then, that 
advice only applied to a person suffering symptoms  not members of their household. And 
again, this was after Mr E had decided to cancel the trip. 
This means I dont think Mr E has shown that either he couldnt have obtained medical 
evidence from a GP or that government advice on 9 March 2020 was to self-isolate. And so 
overall, Im satisfied that Mr E hasnt shown it was medically necessary to cancel his trip. As 
such, Ive decided it was fair for UKI to turn down this claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman