DRN-2384361
The complaint
Mr R complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (Adrian Flux) mis-sold him a 
legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
In 2015 Mr R purchased home insurance through Adrian Flux who are a broker. This policy 
included an add-on of cover for certain legal expenses. The policy renewed yearly until 
within the 2019 policy year Mr R had cause to make a claim on the LEI section of his policy. 
A neighbour had started legal action against him and he wanted to use his policy to help 
defend himself. The insurer who provided the policy declined his claim on the basis of an 
exclusion which said there wasnt cover for defence of legal matters brought against Mr R by 
a third party. 
Mr R complained to Adrian Flux. He says the policy has been mis-sold as he hadnt been 
made aware of what he considers a significant exclusion to the policy. Adrian Flux didnt 
uphold the complaint and the matter was referred to our service.
One of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He pointed out that the 
policy had been sold on a non-advised basis. In summary he thought that Adrian Flux had 
provided Mr R with sufficient information to make an informed choice as to whether or not 
the policy met his needs. So he didnt recommend that Adrian Flux needed to do anything 
further to resolve the complaint. Mr R disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr R, so Ill explain why. 
Based on the documentation Ive seen and the calls Ive listened to, Im satisfied that Adrian 
Flux sold Mr R his policy on a non-advised basis. This means Adrian Flux arent responsible 
for ensuring that the policy met Mr Rs needs. But I would still have expected them to have 
presented information in such a way to enable Mr R to make an informed choice. And Id 
expect this to be communicated in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
During one of the calls where the policy was originally sold, and in the context of the LEI 
cover, the agent said to Mr R It covers you for legal fees, costs and expenses for pursuing 
civil legal proceedings such as employment disputes,  disputes and infringements of your 
legal rights arising from owning or occupying your permanent place of residence when you 
receive your documents please do check them and inform us of any errors. 
Very similar information was included at the renewal relevant to the policy year during which 
Mr R made his claim to his insurer. Part of the renewal pack sent to Mr R said Our Home 
Legal policy covers you for up to £50,000 for legal expenses incurred in pursuing these civil 
proceedings (my emphasis added). Mr R was also provided with a link to download the 
policy documents in which the exclusion that the insurer relied upon to decline the claim was 
written. 
Ive thought about whether there only being cover to pursue legal action rather than to 
defend legal action is such a significant exclusion that it ought to have been given particular 
prominence. But I dont agree that it ought to have been highlighted further than it was. The 
documentation all refers to pursuing legal action and it isnt reasonable to expect a broker to 
highlight every term and condition of a policy that might later go on to have relevance if a 
claim is made. The policy documents were made available to Mr R and it was for him to 
check these, to ensure that the policy he was buying met his needs. 
Mr R has also made reference to part of Adrian Fluxs website which refers to LEI cover as 
peace of mind against the threat of being sued. He says he took this to imply that his policy 
would have covered him in these circumstances. Ive considered this but I dont think this 
means that the policy was mis-sold. It isnt my place to comment on how Adrian Flux market 
or promote themselves on their website. But the important documents here are those that 
Adrian Flux sent Mr R in the course of him buying and renewing his policy. It may well be 
that Adrian Flux sell a range of policies and the website highlights some of the types of 
things that might be covered. 
I understand it will have been disappointing for Mr R to have had his claim declined by his 
insurer. But I think Adrian Flux provided sufficient information to enable Mr R to make his 
own choice about whether the policy he was buying met his needs or not. I dont agree the 
policy was mis-sold and so Im not going to tell Adrian Flux they need to do anything further 
to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman