DRN-2931803
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) has 
offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside a credit card.
What happened
Mrs H took out a PPI policy alongside a credit card. When Mrs H complained to Barclays 
that the PPI had been mis-sold Barclays agreed to uphold her complaint and offered to pay 
her total compensation of £3,996.34 after tax. This amount was paid to Mrs H.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the offer and the information provided by Barclays and brought her 
complaint to this service. When Barclays reviewed its offer, it realised it had made an error 
with the dates in the calculation so did a new calculation. This resulted in a higher amount of 
compensation, totalling £4,845.97 after tax, being identified. So, Barclays offered to pay the 
additional amount of £849.63 to Mrs H.  
Barclays had no actual data of how much Mrs H had actually paid for the PPI whilst it was 
active on the account. Barclays said the credit card account was opened in June 1993 and 
from the information on its system no PPI was charged after April 2001. Barclays had 
calculated its offer of compensation on the basis of what is known as an average offer. 
Mrs H didnt agree the offer was fair. She said she knew her credit card account had opened 
in 1986 and so the PPI must have run for a much longer period. Mrs H could provide no 
direct evidence to show that her credit card, and the PPI, had been active before 1993, the 
date shown on Barclays records for the start of the credit card.
Our adjudicator said based on the information available, the calculation Barclays had now 
carried out, for an average offer showing a total compensation of £4,845.97 after tax was 
fair. And so Mrs H was now due an additional £849.63 based on the fact she had already 
been paid £3,996.34.
Mrs H still wasnt happy with the offer and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed to uphold Mrs Hs s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Therefore, in this decision I am only considering what is fair compensation for Barclays to 
pay to settle Mrs Hs complaint. 
Barclays has provided some screenshots of its internal records which show that the credit 
card started in June 1993 and was an open account until late 2018. There is no clear 
evidence to show when the PPI started, but it is indicated as having been on the account. So 
Barclays assumed the start date was the same date as its records show the credit card 
account opened. 
It is unclear exactly when the PPI ended on the account. If the PPI had been active after 30 
April 2001 then there would be a link to some summary statement information. But that is not 
the case with this account. The earliest statement Barclays has available for the account is 
18 May 2004 and that shows no PPI being charged to the account. So Barclays has 
assumed the end date was 30 April 2001, as suggested by the computer records.
As there is nothing to show that PPI was charged after 30 April 2001, it is reasonable to 
assume that was the end date. It is quite possible that the PPI may have ended any time 
before this, since the account opened in June 1993, but I think it is fair to Mrs H to assume to 
latest possible date for the end of PPI on the account. And based on the evidence available 
this would be 30 April 2001.
I know Mrs H has indicated she believes the account was open for some 35 years and that 
the PPI must have been active throughout the time it was open. But that is not the case. 
Mrs H requested that a sample of statements for the account from a year she chose, 2017, 
be provided. Barclays has done this, and these show no PPI was being charged then. Also 
Barclays has provide to this service a copy of the first statement it holds from 2004 and 
again this shows no PPI was being charged. 
I also note Mrs Hs submission that the credit card account was opened in 1986 and not 
1993. She recalls she opened the credit card account when she was 16 and took her card 
overseas to a summer camp when she was 18. 
Credit card accounts in the UK cannot be legally opened by anyone under the age of 18, as 
this is the age contracts can be legally entered into. So, Mrs H would not have been able to 
open a credit card account in her own name at 16. It is possible for people younger than 18 
to be an authorised user on someone elses credit card account, and that may possibly be 
what happened to Mrs H. Hence she may have held a card authorised on the account of 
someone else. 
This was all some 35 years ago and memories do fade. Mrs H can provide no documentary 
evidence about the account, so I have to reach a decision based on the evidence that has 
been presented.
So am satisfied, based on the records I have seen, that there is nothing to show the credit 
card account opened before June 1993 and that the PPI was active on the account before 
that date. Also, that the PPI most likely ended by 30 April 2001 at the latest, as there is 
nothing to show any PPI was charged to the account after this date.
Having determined the dates the credit card was active, I have looked at the compensation 
amount offered by Barclays for the PPI. 
Barclays has no actual data about what was charged for the PPI. Businesses are only legally 
required to keep records for six years, so it is not surprising Barclays has limited information 
about the PPI from 21 years or more ago. In cases like this where there is no data it is 
considered fair that what is known as an average offer of compensation is made.
An average offer is based on data that Barclays has collected over a number of years about 
customers who had PPI on accounts similar to Mrs H, in this case a credit card, over similar 
periods of time. Barclays uses that data to work out the average cost paid for PPI premiums, 
over a similar period the PPI was active on an account, based on the average spend of a 
number of customers over a similar period. It also uses this approach to work out the amount of interest cause by the PPI being on the account by the average customer with PPI over a 
similar time. 
In the case of Mrs H the average cost of PPI premiums in the final calculation, using the 
correct dates of June 1993 to April 2001 is £1,256.84 and the average interest paid by 
customers during this same period is £876.13. These amounts are included in the total 
compensation to be paid to Mrs H.
In addition, Barclays is required to pay compensatory interest, at 8% simple, to compensate 
Mrs H for the time she was out of pocket. This has been calculated to 10 March 2021 and 
comes to £3,391.25. HM Revenue and Customs require that Barclays deduct from this 
interest basic rate tax and this has been worked out as £678.25 in total. So the total net 
amount due to Mrs H for the compensation is £4,845.97. 
Mrs H has already been paid £3,996.34 after Barclays first made its offer but using the 
wrong dates for the calculation. So, this means the difference between the two amounts, that 
is £849.63, is what is still due to be paid to Mrs H. If this has not already been paid to Mrs H 
then Barclays will need to update the 8% simple interest to the date of final payment on the 
amount that remains outstanding to be paid.
Mrs H also made some requests to Barclays in 2019 for information, when she first received 
the uphold letter and offer of compensation, relating to the tax deducted and information 
HMRC had requested. Barclays did not deal with that at the time and is took a considerable 
time for clarification and for the information to be provided to Mrs H. Barclays has 
acknowledged the poor service in relation to this and offered to pay an additional £100 for 
the trouble and upset this may have caused Mrs H. I think that amount is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Mrs H has also indicated she wanted compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
was caused by the mis-sale and pursing her complaint. Mrs H has received compensatory 
interest as part of the compensation, as I have outlined above, and that is in part to 
compensate for the PPI being mis-sold. 
I cannot see Mrs H has been put to any more trouble than any other complainant who was 
mis-sold PPI, other than the delay in dealing with her request for some information. And as 
Ive indicated Barclays has offered £100 for the poor service in relation to that. So I am not 
awarding any further compensation for trouble and upset. 
In summary, based on all the evidence provided, I am satisfied that the dates now used by 
Barclays for the time the PPI was active on the account are reasonable. Also, the approach 
taken by Barclays in working out the average costs and the compensation due for this mis-
sold policy is fair. 
This means that a total of £4,845.97 after tax was due to be paid to Mrs H for the 
compensation. If this was not all paid to her by 10 March 2021 then the additional amount 
outstanding should now be paid, subject to the 8% compensatory interest being updated and 
paid. In addition, again if not already paid, Barclays should pay the £100 for the poor service 
Mrs H suffered when waiting for information she had requested. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am not upholding the complaint that any additional 
compensation is due. I am satisfied that the offer Barclays Bank UK Plc has made for 
£4,845.97 after tax in compensation related to the PPI mis-sold to Mrs H, is fair. As set out 
above any payment outstanding of this amount should now be paid.Also I think the £100 offered by Barclays Bank UK Plc for the trouble and upset caused, is 
fair and  if this has not been paid then payment of this should now also be made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman