DRN-3304614
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Startline Motor Finance Limited dealt with his request for 
assistance as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline. He paid a £1,000 deposit and the agreement was for £13,749.73 over 60 months 
with 59 monthly repayments of £344.85 and a final payment of £354.85.
In September 2020, following a period of furlough as a result of Covid-19, Mr H was made 
redundant. He contacted Startline to ask for assistance with his payments, but they told him 
they couldnt provide this while he was out of work. Mr H contacted Startline again in 
December 2020, as he was hoping to start a new job in January 2021, and again asked for 
assistance. But Startline said theyd need proof of his new employment before they could 
consider the request.
Mr H contacted Startline several times between December 2020 and March 2021, asking for 
assistance, and a backdated one-month payment deferral was eventually agreed. Following 
this, Mr H arranged with Startline to repay his arrears.
Mr H complained to Startline that they hadnt been supportive of his financial situation, and 
that he was in a vulnerable position due to his mental health. Startline didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong, so Mr H brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Startline said they couldnt agree a payment deferral, as it would 
make Mr Hs financial situation worse, and increase his arrears. But, in not agreeing to a 
payment deferral, the investigator said Startlines actions resulted in Mr Hs arrears balance 
increasing and his financial situation getting worse. And he thought that, because Mr Hs 
income had been affected by Covid-19, then a payment deferral shouldve been approved. 
Which wouldnt have put Mr H in any worse position that he otherwise found himself.
The investigator also said that Startline sent Mr H arrears and fees letters, which wouldve 
caused him stress and affected his mental health. And, if a payment deferral had been in 
place, these letters wouldnt have been sent. The investigator also said Startline terminated 
the agreement in February 2021, when guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) said they shouldnt do this.
Whats more, the investigator said that under the FCA guidance, Startline were required to 
treat Mr Hs situation with forbearance. Which they didnt do. Given all of this, the 
investigator said Startline should remove any adverse entries from Mr Hs credit file and pay 
him an additional £300 for the trouble and upset hed been caused.
After some consideration, Mr H agreed with the investigators view. However, after reading 
an online review about undisclosed commission, Mr H said that he didnt want to accept a 
full and final settlement. The investigator explained that, as he hadnt complained to 
Startline about the commission issue, it wouldnt form part of any decision we made. Mr H 
then asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Startline also didnt agree with the investigator. They said we must ensure there is a level of 
affordability moving forward before implementing any short-term payment relief. As Mr H 
was unemployed with no confirmation of upcoming employment [we] were unable to approve 
a payment break  the issue was not classed as short-term since there was no end date.
Startline also said that the FCA guidance required a payment deferral applicant to be 
employed / self-employed. As Mr H was unemployed a payment break would not serve its 
purpose of easing the burden of short term affordability.
Given the above, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The FCA issued guidance about customers who were faced with temporary payment 
difficulties as a result of Covid-19, that came into effect on 27 April 2020. And this allowed 
financial businesses to grant a three-month payment deferral. The guidance said, a firm 
should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines 
(acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. It also said, 
where a 3 month payment deferral is not considered appropriate, firms should without 
unreasonable delay, offer other ways to provide temporary relief  this could include 
reduced payments or a rescheduled or a rescheduled term.
The guidance also said the existing forbearance rules and guidance would apply to 
customers in arrears where a payment deferral wasnt appropriate. The guidance confirmed 
this included suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges, 
deferring payment of arrears or accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time.
The FCA issued updated guidance on 15 July 2020, which allowed a payment deferral to be 
extended to a period of up to six-months. And if the customer is unable to resume payments 
at the end of the payment deferral period  the firm should work with the customer to 
resolve these difficulties.
The above guidance was in place when Mr H contacted Startline about a payment deferral. 
And, while the guidance refers to temporary payment difficulties, it does not specify that a 
payment deferral can only be approved to a customer who was either employed or self-
employed. The guidance is also clear that there is no expectation under this guidance that 
the firm makes enquiries with each customer to determine the circumstances surrounding 
the request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the customers interests. Startlines system notes show Mr H contacted them on 7 September 2020, to tell them hed 
lost his job because of Covid-19. He asked for assistance and Startline noted as no 
employment exit affordability the only thing we can do at present is move his payments to 
the last day [of the month]. Their system notes also show Mr H contacted them on multiple 
occasions between December 2020 and March 2021, when he explained that he was 
working temporary jobs as a delivery driver.
However, Startline didnt provide Mr H with any assistance regarding his payments and 
didnt accept his request for either a payment deferral (allowable under the Covid-19 
guidelines) or to make part-payments (allowable under the forbearance guidelines). And, 
while they did eventually agree to a backdated one-month payment deferral, they also 
terminated the agreement and defaulted the account.
In May 2021, Mr H agreed to make his normal monthly payments, and pay his arrears off 
over 10-months, even though his income was mainly made up of benefits. And its my 
understanding that it wasnt until July 2021 that he returned to full-time employment.
Ive considered the FCA guidance and, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr Hs income 
had been affected by Covid-19. So, the temporary guidance referred to above applied. And 
the guidance is clear that Startline should approve a payment deferral (of up to six-months in 
total), without the need to investigate Mr Hs circumstances in depth, unless it was obviously 
not in Mr Hs best interests to do so. And, where a payment deferral was obviously not in Mr 
Hs best interests, then the usual forbearance rules shouldve applied.
I consider that obviously not in the best interests is a high bar, and any payment deferral 
would need to be clearly putting Mr H in a worse financial situation than not having a 
payment deferral, for it not to be in his best interests. And, in this instance, I dont think that 
was the case.
In their complaint response letter of 28 April 2021, Startline told Mr H while we understand 
and appreciate you expected support with payments due to your redundancy, this is not the 
level of support we were able to offer as no alternative employment was advised at the time 
of your request, therefore, we were unable to provide payment support. But Startlines own 
case notes show that Mr H had a series of temporary delivery driver jobs from December 
2020 onwards. So, not only am I satisfied that Mr H advised them of alternate employment, 
the FCA guidance didnt require them to validate this before agreeing any payment deferral.
Whats more, Startline did offer Mr H a payment deferral, but this was only for one-month 
(backdated) and was offered part way through the period of his financial difficulties. And Ive 
seen nothing in the evidence to show me why this was approved when other requests had 
been declined, given that Mr Hs financial circumstances hadnt changed.
Given this, Im satisfied that Startline shouldve provided Mr H with a payment deferral by no 
later than December 2020 (when he told the about his temporary employment), backdated to 
September 2020 (when he first requested assistance). And, given Mr Hs circumstances, Im 
also satisfied that this shouldve been extended by three-months after the initial payment 
deferral period ended i.e. the payment deferral shouldve run from September 2020 to 
February 2021 inclusive.
For completeness, Ive also considered what actions Startline actually took. When they 
declined the initial request for a payment deferral, they didnt offer Mr H any additional 
assistance. And this includes his request to make part-payments. Instead they put a 
payment plan in place that required Mr H to make additional payments while he was still in 
financial difficulties, and they continually contacted him about his arrears  something that wouldnt have happened if a payment deferral has been approved  to the detriment of his 
mental health. 
As such, Im satisfied that Startline didnt follow the existing FCA forbearance guidance as 
an alternative to the temporary Covid-19 guidance. So, Im satisfied that Startline should now 
do something to put things right.
Putting things right
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied that Startline havent treated Mr H fairly or 
reasonably. I have seen theyve already removed all fees and charges from Mr Hs account, 
but I think his credit file should also be altered to reflect the payment deferral that shouldve 
been put in place.
While I appreciate that the additional payments Mr H made to clear the arrears caused him 
additional financial difficulties at the time, refunding these to him would only increase the 
balance he owes, and add to any financial burden. So, I wont be asking Startline to do this. 
Instead they should:
reinstate the agreement, 
remove any adverse entries from Mr Hs credit file relating to arrears that built up 
during the period from September 2020 to February 2021, when the payment deferral 
shouldve been in place, and
pay Mr H an additional £300 for the inconvenience and upset the incorrect this matter 
has caused him.
Finally, if Mr H is still in arrears, then Startline should also treat him with forbearance in line 
with the FCA guidance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and Startline Motor Finance Limited 
need to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman