DRN-1517652
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about the way Haven Insurance Company Limited have acted when it 
recorded a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms car was stolen and he contacted Haven to report the incident. Haven arranged a 
courtesy car for him under the terms of his policy. The car was later recovered and taken to 
a police compound for inspection. Haven later recovered the car from the police compound 
and took it to an area of free storage. It arranged for one of its engineers to inspect the car 
who said it was a total loss. So Haven recorded a total loss marker on the car.
Mr M complained Haven said it was a total loss but hed since learnt it was repairable. And 
he said he wanted Haven to repair the car. Haven said the car was repairable, but it didnt 
think it was economical to do so. Mr M thought Haven was acting unfairly and he said he 
didnt want to claim. He also complained further that it had added a total loss marker on the 
cars record which he said meant his finance company had terminated his agreement.
Haven responded to say it acted fairly in adding the total loss marker, but it agreed to 
remove it from the cars record. It also said, if Mr M wasnt making a claim, it wasnt willing to 
keep the car. So it said Mr Ms options were:
1. Haven would return the car to Mr M if he refunded the storage and recovery fees it 
incurred; or 
2. Haven would return the car to the finance company as the finance company had a 
financial interest in the car.
Mr M complained to this service and raised the following issues:
1. Haven knew he wasnt claiming, so it should never have recorded the total loss marker. 
He said its actions have meant the finance company terminated his agreement and is 
pursuing him for the full amount on the finance.
2. Haven acted unfairly in writing the car off. He said he was insured up to £10,000, but the 
repair cost was just over £5,000. So he maintains it should have repaired the car. He 
said, had it repaired the car, he wouldnt have suffered any of the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered. He also doesnt agree with Havens valuation of the car.
3. He says Haven wouldnt let him have the cars salvage back. He said the car was his 
property, so Haven should have returned it to him. He also says Haven has colluded with 
the finance company to enable it to repossess the car without a court order  breaching 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He says he never made a claim, so he doesnt think 
Haven should be asking him to repay costs before he can collect his car.
4. Three third parties have claimed on his car insurance policy and Haven didnt tell him.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Mr M did initially make a claim on the 
policy and asked Haven to provide him with a courtesy car. So he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Haven to have treated the matter as a claim. He also thought it was fair for 
Haven to record the car as a total loss. So it was entitled to initially record the total loss 
marker on the cars record.
The investigator didnt think Haven had said Mr M couldnt have the car back. But he thought 
it was fair for it to require Mr M to refund the storage and recovery fees before it returned the 
car to him. 
Finally, he said the terms of the contract Haven had with Mr M entitled Haven to have full 
conduct of the claim  including defending third-party claims. And he didnt think it had acted 
unfairly.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He maintained Haven shouldnt have put 
the total loss marker on. He also still thought Haven and the finance company were colluding 
to enable the finance company to recover the car. He wants Haven to pay him the amount 
required to repair the car without being forced into making a claim.
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr M has raised a number of points that he wants this service to take into account. Ive taken 
them all into consideration. Ive not commented on each and every point hes raised. No 
discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. In this 
decision Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. Ill address each one separately.
Was it fair for Haven to record a total loss marker?
Mr M says he never made a claim so he thinks its unfair for Haven to have recorded the 
total loss marker. But I dont agree. Ive listened to the first telephone call Mr M had with 
Haven when he first reported the claim and its clear from this that he was making a claim on 
his policy. And Im conscious he was given a courtesy car as well. I also note he looked to 
extend the courtesy car. So Im also satisfied he was aware Haven was treating this as a 
claim at the beginning.
I also note Mr M asked Haven a number of times to repair the car rather than treat it as a 
total loss. So its clear at that time it was his intention to look to recover his loss from his 
insurance policy. Mr M later withdrew the claim because Haven said it wouldnt repair the 
car. But, the fact remains that Mr M did start the claim procedure so Haven acted fairly in 
treating it as such.
Ive thought about whether it was fair for Haven to have written Mr Ms car off. I should first 
set out that the terms of the insurance policy  like all other car insurance policies  gave 
Haven sole discretion of how to settle the claim. And it sets out that Haven could choose to 
repair the car, replace it, or provide Mr M with a monetary settlement. So Haven was entitled 
to decide whether it wanted to repair the car or pay the cars market value.
Havens engineer estimated the repair cost to be around £5,500, but it valued the car at 
£4,293. Mr M says the car was repairable, so he thinks Haven should have repaired it. But I 
dont think it was unreasonable for it to conclude it wasnt economical to repair the car. In paying the market value, it means Mr M can look to replace the car with the same make and 
model and with the same age and mileage. 
Mr M says he insured the car up to £10,000, so he think this means Haven should repair it. 
But, the terms of the policy limits Havens liability to the cars market value  i.e. around 
£4,293. Its not unfair it does so and its standard industry practice for insurers to do this. So 
it was entitled to write the car off as a total loss. And, it follows, it was also entitled to record 
the total loss on the cars record. I also think Haven acted more than fairly in agreeing to 
remove the marker from Mr Ms record because it wasnt required to do that once it had 
declared the car a write off. So I cant say Haven has acted unfairly in this respect.
I note Mr M says not having access to his car has caused him a lot of distress and 
inconvenience. But I think this is because he didnt agree with Havens decision to write the 
car off and because he withdrew the claim. Hes still entitled to make a claim for his loss and 
he should contact Haven directly if he wishes to do so.
Haven wouldnt return the car to him
Mr M says Haven has refused to allow him to have the salvage back on the car. But I dont 
agree its said this. Haven gave Mr M the option to have the car back if he refunded the 
costs its paid out in recovering the car from the police compound and storage charges 
incurred. Alternatively it said it would return the car to the finance company.
I dont think Haven has acted unfairly in this respect. Mr M has withdrawn the claim before 
Haven carried out its validation checks. I dont think its unreasonable for Haven to say he 
needs to refund the claim expenses its incurred in respect to the car if he doesnt want to 
claim as it is out of pocket. It was Mr Ms decision to not pay these charges to enable him to 
get the car back. I dont think Haven acted unfairly in this respect.
I note Mr M thinks Haven is colluding with the finance company with the intention of getting 
around the Consumer Credit Act. But I dont agree. I dont think its unreasonable for Haven 
to not want to keep the car at its risk and expense if Mr M isnt claiming. And, ultimately, the 
finance company is the legal owner of the car. It gave Mr M the option to collect the car, but 
its entitled to return the car to the finance provider if he doesnt collect it.
Third party claims
Mr M is unhappy Haven didnt tell him other parties had claimed on his insurance policy until 
the claims investigator came to visit him. And I agree with him that I think it would have been 
good practice for Haven to do so. But Haven has looked to defend those claims and said its 
not liable for third party losses. Im not persuaded Mr M has lost out because of the delay in 
notifying him about it. So I dont think it needs to compensate him for this. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman