DRN-3826363
The complaint
Mr M complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com (Everyday 
Lending) irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company. For ease of reference Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they were made directly by him.
What happened
Everyday Lending approved Mr M for a £5,000 guarantor loan in June 2014. Mr M 
complained to Everyday Lending that the loan had been irresponsibly lent, and also referred 
his complaint to our service.
In the course of our services involvement Everyday Lending agreed it had irresponsibly lent 
the loan, and proposed redress to Mr M. Everyday Lending says that Mr Ms guarantor had 
paid the majority of the loan, and that Mr M had not yet repaid the capital amount which had 
been borrowed. It therefore said Mr M was not entitled to any redress. Everyday Lending 
went on to say that it had refunded Mr Ms guarantor the payments they had made; and now 
required Mr M to pay the outstanding amount. Everyday Lending says this is the £5,000 
which was initially lent.
Our investigator explained that this was not a reasonable outcome in this instance. He 
explained that the loan had been settled; and as such there was no mechanism in place for 
Everyday Lending to request payments from Mr M. Our investigator did agree that there was 
no redress due to Mr M as he had not repaid over the amount borrowed.
Mr M and Everyday Lending disagreed with this. Mr M says he had been paying his 
guarantor money; and Everyday Lending maintained it was fair for it to require Mr M to repay 
the capital balance. Everyday Lending has since confirmed the loan has been settled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree the loan in question was irresponsibly lent; so Im not required to make any 
findings in relation to that aspect of Mr Ms complaint. The matter remaining in dispute is in 
terms to any potential redress associated to this loan.
Everyday Lending says it should be able to pursue Mr M for the balance of the capital 
amount which was lent. Mr M says that he did make repayments to the guarantor. 
Ill start by considering the amount which Mr M has paid. Our services standard approach to 
redress is to put consumers back in the position they wouldve been in had any potential 
error from a business not occurred. That is not possible in cases where capital has been 
advanced to a consumer. So, in those instances our stance is that the consumer should only 
pay back the amount of credit theyve borrowed. That is because the consumer (unless 
proven otherwise) has had the benefit of the capital advanced. 
In this instance all parties agree the loan was settled by Mr Ms guarantor. In order for Mr M 
to be due redress Id need to be satisfied that he has paid over the amount of capital he has 
borrowed. Everyday Lending says this is not the case. And based on Mr Ms own information 
that doesnt appear to be the case either. So, Im not satisfied he has suffered a financial 
loss in this instance. That is to say; Im not persuaded based on the information Ive been 
provided that Mr M has paid more in repayments than he was lent by Everyday Lending. So, 
Im satisfied there is no loss to him, and it follows there would be no redress due either. 
That is not the same as me saying that between Mr M and the guarantor that theyve not 
repaid more than the capital amount. However, I cannot consider the payments made by the 
guarantor under this complaint. Mr M says he was paying his guarantor back for the 
payments they made. Similar to the above I cant comment on that agreement as it does not 
involve the relevant regulated parties to this agreement. That is a private matter between Mr 
M and his guarantor. 
Everyday Lending says it should be able to pursue Mr M for the outstanding balance as it 
has refunded the payments to the guarantor. I have considered this argument, but Im not 
persuaded that it can reasonably do so. 
From my understanding and based on the information which has been provided; the loan 
was settled. That means there is no longer an agreement in place; and this has been 
discharged by all relevant parties. As no agreement is in place; I dont understand how 
Everyday Lending is able to pursue Mr M for a debt that is by all accounts settled. As there 
doesnt appear to be an active agreement in place and I dont see how Everyday Lending 
even has a mechanism for collecting payments for under an agreement that was 
extinguished some time ago. So it follows that Im satisfied Everyday Lending cannot pursue 
Mr M for any further payments.
So based on what Ive seen; Im satisfied that Mr M is due no redress as he hasnt suffered a 
financial loss. And Im not persuaded Everyday Lending can continue to pursue Mr M for a 
debt that is settled.
Putting things right
Although Im uphold this complaint, Im satisfied that Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
GeorgeBanco.com does not need to do anything further in relation to this complaint. Im also 
satisfied it cannot pursue Mr M for any further payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint but I dont require Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as GeorgeBanco.com to do anything further in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman