DRN-2899063
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have applied a fraud prevention  
marker (a Cifas marker) against him which is having an on-going impact on his finances.
What happened
Mr K contacted NatWest in June 2020 after discovering they had applied a Cifas marker 
against him. 
The Cifas marker was applied by NatWest in December 2019 after they were made aware 
that Mr Ks account had been in receipt of a fraudulent cheque. The cheque itself had 
credited Mr Ks account on 9 December 2019. And in the following days, the value of the 
cheque, which amounted to just over £25,000, was spent via a series of chip and PIN card 
payments, as well as an online faster payment.
Mr K told NatWest that he didnt carry out any of this activity and would never commit any 
form of fraud. He also explained that the marker was having a serious impact on his life as 
he couldnt obtain additional finance to help his business progress. 
NatWest reviewed Mr Ks complaint and provided their final response in July 2020. They told 
him they wouldnt be removing the marker. Unhappy with their response, Mr K asked our 
service to look into his complaint.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. During the course of the investigation, Mr K 
told him the following:
He didnt know how the fraudulent activity had taken place. He was unaware of the 
cheque crediting his account until January 2020 following a call with NatWest. At this 
point, he asked for his account to be closed.
He didnt have his bank card with him  and hadnt used it since June 2019.
The PIN for the card wasnt stored or written down anywhere at the time of the 
fraudulent activity  he had previously had the PIN recorded in his wallet, but he had 
lost this a year earlier. He also confirmed he hadnt told anyone his PIN.
NatWest also provided information for our investigator to consider. They said:
They have no records of contacting Mr K in January 2020 and this wouldnt have 
been something they wouldve done. His NatWest account had already been closed 
 it had been closed the previous December following their internal review and so 
there wasnt an account to contact Mr K about.
Although Mr K said he didnt know the whereabouts of his card, NatWest had not 
received any requests to cancel it or any reports that it had been lost or stolen.
Based on their records, the last time the card was used was roughly nine months 
before the disputed activity. They thought it unlikely that someone couldve obtained 
Mr Ks card and overseen his PIN at this point and waited a further 9 months to use 
it. Mr K had made no mention of how his PIN couldve otherwise been known by a 
third-party either. 
Based on their online banking records, very similar IP addresses were used before 
and during the fraudulent activity to log in to Mr Ks online banking. This indicated 
one person carried out the activity on the account  most likely Mr K. 
The device used for all online/mobile banking activity in December 2019 was the 
same device registered to the account in June 2019. Mr K had not disputed that it 
was him who registered the device and so NatWest thought it likely to be a device he 
had in his possession. This same device was used to check the account once the 
fraudulent cheque had been credited. And so NatWest believed it was Mr K who had 
checked the account and if the cheque crediting the account was unexpected, he 
wouldve reported it to them But he didnt.
Having reviewed the information available to him at the time, our investigator thought it 
reasonable for NatWest to have applied the Cifas marker. He was unable to identify how Mr 
Ks card and PIN had been compromised alongside his online banking details - which 
wouldve been needed to log in to his account prior to the cheque being credited and to 
complete one of the transfers out too. As a result, our investigator thought on balance that it 
was most likely Mr K carried knew about or carried out the fraudulent activity  and was most 
likely aware of the fraudulent cheque which credited his account too.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators findings and he provided some further information that 
he hadnt provided previously: 
Mr K said he had used his card shortly before the disputed activity took place  for a 
series of balance enquiries carried out on 3 December 2019 and he believes 
someone mayve been able to see him enter his PIN at this point. He accepts he 
previously told the investigator he hadnt used the card for a while but said he didnt 
think about the possibility of balance enquiries when he was originally asked the 
question.
Mr K also confirmed that he reset his online banking credentials on 3 December 
2019. He confirmed this was done via the same device that he had used when hed 
last accessed his online banking back in June 2019. Mr K also confirmed his online 
banking could be accessed via a passcode only.
Mr K said he had all of his banking security credentials (including his online/mobile 
banking information and security passcodes) were written down in a small diary 
which was located in his vehicle. The same vehicle was accessible to several people 
he worked with at the time. Mr K also said that these same people often used his 
mobile phone to help complete certain jobs. As a result, Mr K believes one of these 
people couldve accessed his mobile phone and gained entry to his account using 
the information contained in his diary  which they also had access to when in his 
car. Mr K accepted he didnt previously mention this but said he didnt feel it was 
relevant initially.
Mr K believes someone is now impersonating him as hes received communication 
about a car which he says doesnt belong to him.
Mr K also questioned why NatWest hadnt questioned the cheque crediting his 
account in the first place  given this was different to the accounts normal activity.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again and considered the new information provided 
by Mr K. However, his view remained the same and he didnt recommend the Cifas marker 
be removed. He highlighted Mr Ks inconsistent version of events. And he remained of the 
opinion that it was unlikely that a third-party couldve obtained everything needed (Mr Ks genuine card, PIN and online/mobile banking details) in order that they could carry out the 
disputed activity without Mr Ks knowledge.
Mr K again disagreed with our investigators view and requested an Ombudsman review his 
complaint. As an agreement has not been reached, the case has now been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The marker that NatWest has applied is for misuse of facility. In this case, this means using 
the account to receive and then spend fraudulent funds. For NatWest to record this marker, 
they dont need to be able to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr K is guilty of the 
offence of fraud. But they are expected to be able to demonstrate that there are reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted. 
Practically what this means is that NatWest must first be able to demonstrate that the funds 
that entered Mr Ks account were fraudulent funds  and not part of legitimate activity. And 
secondly, they will need to have robust evidence that Mr K was deliberately dishonest in his 
activity  including allowing his account to be used for fraudulent activity. 
With these considerations in mind, Ive first thought about the funds themselves. NatWest 
has been able to provide evidence of it being contacted by another bank who explained that 
one of its customers had a fraudulent cheque credited into Mr Ks account. Given the detail 
provided by the third-party bank, as well as the fact that Mr K has insisted he has no 
entitlement to these funds and wasnt even aware of them entering his account, Im satisfied 
it is more likely than not the funds which credited Mr Ks account were as a result of fraud.
Ive then thought about the second element as to whether I believe Mr K was deliberately 
dishonest in his use of the account to the point it was reasonable for NatWest to escalate its 
concerns to Cifas.
From what Ive seen, Im persuaded it was reasonable for NatWest to do so. This is 
because:
On balance, Im persuaded its most likely Mr K knew that fraudulent activity was 
about to take place on his account. I say this because I can see that someone logs in 
to Mr Ks online banking on numerous occasions during the 9th, 10th and 11th 
December 2019. This suggests to me that whoever is accessing the account is 
aware that funds are about to be credited to it and is monitoring the account for their 
availability. The multiple successful log-ins to Mr Ks online banking are completed 
using the same device that Mr K has confirmed he used to re-register for online 
banking roughly a week earlier on 3 December 2019.
I acknowledge what Mr K has said about people he worked with being able to access 
his phone during this time as well as potentially having knowledge of his online 
banking details  which he says were stored in his diary in his vehicle. But given that 
the evidence shows that whoever had access to Mr Ks device and online banking, 
was able to access the device across multiple days and at various times  Im not 
persuaded that a third party fraudster wouldve been able to access Mr Ks device and login to his online banking on multiple occasions, at considerable risk to 
themselves, without him noticing and becoming aware of what was going on. 
In addition to this, I note there are also successful log-ins to Mr Ks online banking 
after all of the disputed activity has been completed. If a third-party had indeed 
carried out all of the disputed transactions, they wouldve known all the money had 
been spent. There wouldve been no need to access the account any further and 
once again, risk their exposure. And so Im persuaded its more likely than not that Mr 
K was the one who was accessed his online banking  yet he didnt report any of the 
fraudulent activity on the account to NatWest.
Im also persuaded its most likely that Mr K was also the one to authorise (in some 
capacity) the transactions that allowed the fraudulent funds to leave his account. Mr 
K has said he used his card for balance enquiries on 3 December 2019. So Im 
satisfied the card hadnt gone missing and was in Mr Ks possession at this point. 
The card is next used in the middle of the night on 10 December 2019 for further 
balance enquiries at a location which is only a matter of minutes away from Mr Ks 
address. By this point, the fraudulent cheque had already credited the account 
(something which wouldve been apparent as a result of both the balance enquiries 
and also the frequent online banking log-ins which had taken place on 9th and 10th 
December 2019 as well). 
However, its then a further 15 hours before the card is finally used for the now 
disputed transactions  some of which also take place in locations only a matter of 
minutes away from Mr Ks address. If a third party (without Mr Ks knowledge or 
consent) had been able to take Mr Ks card at some point between 3 and 10 
December 2019, Im not persuaded they wouldve waited such a substantial period of 
time before starting to utilize the funds in the account. The longer they wait, the 
bigger the risk that Mr K wouldve noticed his card was missing or that his account 
balance had suspiciously increased substantially  and that he wouldve reported the 
matter to NatWest and the fraud wouldve failed. And so Im satisfied that had this 
balance enquiry been carried out by a third-party fraudster, they wouldve started to 
use the funds straightaway in order to avoid this happening. Yet whoever made the 
balance enquiry appears to have been confident that they would continue to have 
access to the account and the funds in it.
NatWest has also been able to evidence that the disputed cheque was dated 3 
December 2019. This happens to be the same day that Mr K decided to use his bank 
card for the first time in several months, as well as re-register for and access his 
online/mobile banking again. It is unusual that of all these things would happen on 
the same day  especially as the account had not been used for many months prior. 
Overall, in order to be satisfied that Mr Ks version of events is most likely, Id have to 
be persuaded that an unknown third-party was able to gain access to Mr Ks genuine 
card and PIN (which he initially said wasnt written down) in order to pay a fraudulent 
cheque into his account in branch. Id then have to be satisfied that the same third-
party was then able to access Mr Ks online banking via his own mobile phone on 
multiple occasions across numerous days without Mr K noticing. 
Id also have to be persuaded that they were doing so to check the fraudulent cheque 
had been credited (which presumably they wouldve already known had they paid it 
in), all whilst either keeping hold of Mr Ks card, or risking returning it and taking it 
again to do the balance enquiries. Id also have to be satisfied that this third-party, 
who appears to have been very vigilant in checking when the money entered the 
account, waited 15 hours before accessing it. Once again, all without Mr K noticing his account is being used. And all of the above is taking place in the same week Mr K 
started using the account again and had re-instated his mobile banking. On balance, 
I agree with NatWest that this seems unlikely.
I also want to address the question surrounding the phone call from NatWest that Mr K says 
alerted him to the cheque in January 2020. Ive seen evidence from NatWest that shows it 
issued a letter to Mr K in December 2019 to explain his account would be closed. Theres no 
indication Mr K questioned this account closure at the time. Instead, Mr K said that the first 
contact he had with NatWest was when he received a call from them in January 2020  and 
it was at this point he asked for the account to be closed. However, Im not persuaded this 
was what most likely happened. 
The evidence shows that Mr Ks account had already been closed in December 2019. So if 
Mr K had asked for the account to be closed in January 2020, Id have expected NatWest to 
tell him that this had already happened. Id have also expected Mr K to challenge why the 
account had already been closed in December 2019 when he received the letter stating as 
such  presumably this wasnt something he was expecting and he had just started to his 
account again. But this doesnt appear to have happened and Mr K doesnt get back in touch 
with NatWest until June 2020. 
NatWest have also shown that they have no evidence of a call taking place in January 2020 
and it doesnt make sense that NatWest would need to get in touch with Mr K after 
December 2019  theyd already closed his account and applied the Cifas marker. Theyve 
also provided evidence of their call records which show no inbound or outbound calls to the 
phone numbers NatWest hold for Mr K (including the same one used to re-register the 
mobile banking on 3 December 2019).
Taking all of the above into account, Im persuaded, on balance, that NatWest had enough 
evidence to meet the burden of proof required by Cifas in order to add the marker against 
Mr K. This is because Im satisfied theres enough evidence to say the money sent (via 
cheque) to Mr Ks account and subsequently spent was most likely because of fraud. In 
addition to this, Im also persuaded its most likely Mr K has helped to facilitate this and 
therefore acted dishonestly with NatWest. As a result, I dont think its fair to ask NatWest to 
remove the fraud marker on this occasion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman