DRN-3894430
The complaint
Mrs S, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited  
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale agreement she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In April 2017, Mrs S acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Having paid a cash deposit of £588 Mrs S was then required to make 
47 monthly repayments of £311.89. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£15,246.83.
Mrs S got into difficulty a few months after entering into the agreement, leading to her 
entering into several payment arrangements with Moneybarn. A default notice was issued in 
September 2018.
In August 2018 the car was involved in an accident and was later written off. The insurance 
paid as a result of that cleared the agreement save for a small outstanding balance. That 
sum was written off by Moneybarn in in September 2018. 
Mrs S says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a search of Mrs Ss credit file and 
checking her level of paid income. Moneybarn also said it was aware of a previous default 
around 22 months prior to Mrs S taking out the agreement which had been settled. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She thought Moneybarn hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance 
agreement. 
Mrs S disagreed and made some further points about her expenditure and the financial 
difficulties she was experiencing after taking out the agreement. The complaint has therefore  
been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mrs S about her ability to repay. I say this because it completed a 
credit check to understand how Mrs S had managed her existing and previous finance 
arrangements and also verified Mrs Ss income using information from three months of bank 
statements which set out her regular commitments. Ive seen that her working income was 
recorded as being split between two accounts and this is supported by the copy statements 
Ive seen. Moneybarn says its own credit search showed that Mrs S had defaulted on an 
account around 22 months earlier and had since cleared the outstanding balance. Ive also 
seen that she opened a debt management account two months before the agreement. Aside 
from those, which I wouldnt necessarily have expected to be enough to make the 
agreement unaffordable, I havent seen any significant evidence of problems with other 
credit or any county court judgments against Mrs S. 
However, just because I think Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. Whilst, as Ive said above, Mrs S had experienced some issues 
with credit prior to taking the agreement, she now appeared to be in better control of her 
financial and debt commitments. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Moneybarn gathered. Having done so Im 
satisfied that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be 
affordable to Mrs S. I say this because, taking into account her average monthly income 
before she took out the agreement  based on income she received for work rather than  
from other sources  I can see she was receiving an average monthly net income of £1,300. 
Having taken into account her typical level of monthly withdrawals, household bills and daily 
expenses, and not seeing any other evidence that she was getting into further financial 
difficulty, I dont think Moneybarn acted unfairly when approving the finance application. I say 
this given that Mrs Ss average monthly daily expenses and committed expenditure worked 
out at around £650. So it looks likely that typically she would have had around £650 in 
disposable income each month. Ive also noted that Moneybarn didnt take into account 
other income Mrs S was receiving such as state benefits. 
Mrs S has said that as part of her monthly outgoings which we didnt see on her bank 
statements, she was also paying rent. I appreciate this may be difficult to prove, but having 
noted her overall level of wages and other income at the time, I think the agreement was still 
likely to have been affordable. 
I therefore agree with our adjudicator that its likely Mrs S would have been left with sufficient 
disposable income to cover the monthly repayments due under the agreement. 
Finally, Ive seen that Mrs S has told us about some changes in her personal circumstances 
she experienced after taking out the agreement. These include her employment going from 
full time to part time and later on leading to redundancy. She has also told us about some 
personal difficulties that affected her health as well as escalating financial difficulties. Whilst I 
am very sorry to learn of this, unfortunately it doesnt affect my decision. My role is to look at 
the question of whether or not Moneybarn acted fairly at the time it agreed to provide Mrs S 
with the finance, taking into account her financial situation at the time. From what Ive seen I 
think it did and I therefore wont be requiring Moneybarn to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman