DRN-3020872
The complaint
 Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as MINI Financial Services (BMWFS).
 
What happened
 On 19 January 2017 Mr C took out a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS to acquire a 
used car. At the point of sale, the car was just under 5 years old and had travelled 29,466 
miles.
In June 2020, Mr C exercised his right to voluntarily terminate his agreement. When the car 
was handed back BMWFS had the car inspected by a third party to ensure it had been 
maintained in a reasonable condition.
BMWFS identified damage to the car it said was beyond fair wear and tear in line with British 
Vehicle and Leasing Rental Association (BVRLA) guidelines. Mr C agreed with the damage 
to the windscreen and the excess mileage charges, but he disputed the other damages. He 
said he always took good care of the car and that damage was present when he bought it. 
He said when he acquired the car the price was much lower because of its condition in 
comparison to other vehicles of a similar age and mileage.
Mr C didnt agree the condition of the car was beyond fair wear and tear considering its age 
and mileage when it was handed back, and that it was unreasonable to expect a consumer 
to have to prove the condition of the car at the point of sale.
BMWFS didnt agree. It said as Mr C had provided no evidence of the condition of the car at 
the point of sale it didnt agree to waive the charges.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things for him. She 
considered the information provided by both parties and found Mr C to have provided a 
consistent and plausible account. She pointed out the BVRLA guidelines are only applied to 
new cars and as such couldnt be rigidly applied to a car that was already 5 years old and 
had travelled over 29,000 miles when Mr C acquired it. She thought a fair outcome would be 
for BMWFS to waive the remaining charges and remove any adverse information from Mr 
Cs credit file.
BMWFS disagreed. It said it was Mr Cs responsibility to prove the condition of the car at the 
point of sale and as he hadnt done that it maintained its position that the damage falls 
outside fair wear and tear and is payable. It asked for an ombudsman decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im reached the same outcome as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I take account of the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I 
consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Its important to point out here that whilst BVRLA guidelines are regarded as the industry 
standard to assess fair wear and tear, this is applied to new cars and whilst they can be 
applied to used cars, the condition of the car at the point of sale would always need to be 
taken into account.
The hire purchase agreement in this case, is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I wasnt present when Mr C purchased his car from the dealership so I cant be sure what 
was said. But it seems to me, Mr Cs testimony that he acquired a used car for a lower price 
compared to other cars of similar age and mileage is plausible. So, on the balance of 
probabilities this would indicate the car already had some wear and tear.
I also have to agree with the investigators view here that BMWFS hasnt provided any 
evidence of the condition of the vehicle at the time of sale. A pre-delivery inspection at the 
point of sale could have prevented a dispute of this nature. In my view if BMWFS are going 
to provide an agreement which asks the consumer to maintain the car in a reasonable 
condition, it should have ensured the condition of a used car was clearly documented at the 
point of sale.  I dont agree the burden of proving the condition of the vehicle at the point of 
sale should fall to the consumer. So, because I cant say what the condition of the car was at 
the point of sale or what damage there was, Im not able to attribute the damage identified in 
the photographs to Mr C.
Mr C has also provided further testimony and evidence of the car being regularly serviced 
and repaired and he has explained in detail how he raised his concerns with the dealer when 
he acquired the car as he didnt think the cars condition actually met the used approved 
guidelines. 
I have also looked carefully at the photographic evidence provided and I dont agree this is 
outside of  fair wear and tear for a car that has travelled 60,000 miles and is now over 8 years old especially as I have no photographic or documented evidence of the condition of 
the car at the outset.
As BMWFS hasnt provided any evidence to the contrary, Im not persuaded by its argument 
that the burden of proof falls to Mr C and so Im going to ask BMWFS to waive the charges 
and remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file.
  
My final decision
  For the reasons I have given I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as MINI 
Financial Services to:
Waive the outstanding charges
Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman