DRN-3603644
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr S explained that his locker was broken into and his bank cards, driving licence and phone 
were taken. Three withdrawals were made from two accounts and an inter account transfer 
was made. The withdrawals were taken from a local Automated Teller Machine (ATM).  Mr S 
stated that he used the Personal Identification Number (PIN) for his debit cards as the code 
to secure his locker. Mr S confirmed he used the same code to unlock his phone. Mr S said 
he hadnt given his PIN to anyone else and didnt believe anyone else knew it.
Mr S reported the loss to Lloyds and to the Police. Lloyds records indicate that there were 
variations in Mr Ss story concerning how he used his PIN. Lloyds believed Mr Ss versions 
were changing to match the circumstances of his loss. Lloyds also noted that Mr S received 
security education about his account some months earlier after a previous incident.
During one of the conversations, Mr S was asked about who could have been in the 
changing room to observe him enter the four-digit code into the locker. Mr S said he didnt 
think anyone was with him at the time. He later explained that CCTV showed someone 
entering the changing room. But as there werent cameras inside the changing room, it 
wasnt possible to then say what happened.
There were various discussions about how someone could have accessed his account and 
transferred the funds. At one stage it was suggested that a driving licence photo could have 
been used to pass the facial ID check on Mr Ss phone. Lloyds believed Mr Ss code for his 
phone would have been six digits rather than the four digits from his PIN. 
When they looked into the inter account transfers, Lloyds records indicated a logon to the 
account earlier that morning, but no other records were found. Mr S reported that he was 
told by a call hander that the transfers could have been done via telephone banking. Lloyds 
were unable to confirm how the transfers were made.
Lloyds believed that because Mr S had received earlier education about the protection of his 
devices/information, his actions using the PIN as a code for the locker and his phone was 
grossly negligent. They also couldnt identify a point of compromise, so they declined to 
refund him. Mr S complained to Lloyds about their handling of his situation and it was 
investigated by Lloyds complaint team. They assessed the information they had and didnt 
change their position.
Mr S then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information 
about the incident. Mr S explained what had happened and he continued to believe that 
someone had got into his locker and was able to use his PIN to withdraw the funds from his 
two accounts. 
Lloyds provided details of their investigation and the audit of the accounts. It showed that the 
ATM was used to make balance enquiries before withdrawing funds. One account reached 
its daily limit before funds were sent to a different account to then be withdrawn in two 
different requests.
After reviewing the evidence, our investigator thought it unlikely anyone else had authorised 
the withdrawals and didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint, which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Lloyds can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr S authorised the 
transactions, but Lloyds cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves that 
the payments were authorised. 
Unless Lloyds can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr S responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Having reviewed the available calls and notes of other calls, its apparent that Lloyds were 
sceptical of Mr Ss version of events relating to whether hed changed his PIN at some point. 
I do think that there was probably some confusion between both parties about the various 
PINs, what they were for and when they were used. Overall, Im not convinced that Mr S was 
trying to change his version of the events, rather the telling of what happened and how he 
used his PIN was somewhat misinterpreted.
Having said that, Mr S has said he hadnt given his PIN to anyone else and he didnt think 
that anyone else was present when he used the same numbers as his locker code in the 
changing room. It was certainly a risk for Mr S to use the PIN as the locker number/phone 
code, and I understand why Lloyds thought it was grossly negligent for him to do so. Im 
doubtful it meets the test of gross negligence as Mr S hadnt advertised the fact that the 
locker code was his PIN or left anything visible that someone else could use to work it out. It 
was just a four-figure number. 
That leads me on to the point of compromise for how someone was able to acquire the 
PIN. Without a plausible and likely explanation of how someone could have obtained it, I 
cant instruct Lloyds to refund Mr S. If Mr S wasnt aware of anyone else near him when he 
input the code and there was no other way for someone to see it e.g. a camera, then I have 
difficulty in seeing how an unauthorised third party could obtain it. I think it would likely be 
apparent if someone was paying undue attention to Mr S at the point he was inputting his 
code and as Mr S wasnt aware of anyone near him at the time, I think its unlikely this was 
the explanation. I think someone would have to be fairly close to see the number input into 
the locker. Lloyds records indicated that there were no wrong PIN attempts at the ATM, so this would 
indicate the user of the card was confident that they knew the PIN. Even if someone had 
observed Mr S input his code into the locker  its still quite a leap for them to assume this 
number is the PIN for the bank cards.
Much was made of the issue of the PIN and whether it could have been used to access Mr 
Ss phone. Having reviewed the evidence, its possible to change the six-digit PIN on the 
phone to a four-digit PIN, so I dont think that Lloyds assessment of the access to Mr Ss 
phone was accurate. It wasnt possible to establish how the inter account transfer was made 
although at some point it was thought it was both done via online banking and telephone 
banking. Each of these methods requires security information besides Mr Ss PIN to be able 
to use them. Whilst I understand there was some detail available from Mr Ss driving licence 
to answer some questions if telephone banking was used, each of the methods requires 
additional security details that would be unlikely to be available to anyone but Mr S.
At one point in the investigation, Mr S thought he might have recorded other security details 
on his phone, but he couldnt be sure. If this was the case, then the issue of gross 
negligence would again be relevant. But, I havent seen any version of what happened that I 
think is a plausible or likely explanation that enables a third party to acquire the PIN, the 
cards, and Mr Ss phone.
I think its implausible to conclude they werent authorised without stronger evidence to the 
contrary. That means I think its more likely than not that Mr S carried out these transactions 
himself  or that someone else with consent did so.
Whilst Im sure Mr S will disagree with me; the evidence doesnt show how someone could 
obtain the necessary information in order to use the ATM and make account transfers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman