DRN-3777844
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G, trading as a business I will call O, complain about the decision of 
QIC Europe Ltd to decline their business interruption insurance claim, made as a result of 
the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Additionally, both parties are 
represented in this complaint, which is actually that of Mrs G and Mr G, but for the sake of 
simplicity Ive just referred to O and QIC. 
O operates as a restaurant. It held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by QIC. The 
policy provided cover for a number of areas of risk, including business interruption. In 
March 2020, the UK Government instructed restaurants such as O to close. This closure 
interrupted Os business and a claim was made on the policy. 
QIC declined the claim. It said that the clauses in the business interruption section of the 
policy that provided cover in the event of damage did not apply. And that COVID-19 was not 
one of the diseases included in the specified list within the Disease clause. 
QIC also said that the Public Emergency clause did not provide cover in the circumstances 
of the claim. This clause provides cover where:
[T]he actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency likely 
to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders 
the use or access to the Premises.
[Excluding] Any loss:
a) during the first four hours;
b) during any Period other than the actual Period when access to the Premises was 
prevented;
c) as a result of labour disputes;
d) occurring in Northern Ireland;
e) as a result of the diseases specified in Extension A (a)  Diseases.
Any amount in Excess of £10,000.
After QIC had made its initial decision on the claim, the Divisional Court handed down its 
judgment in The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] 
EWHC 2448 (Comm) (the FCA test case). And after O disagreed with QICs initial decision, 
saying that the Public Emergency clause did provide cover, QIC referred to the Divisional 
Courts judgment. 
QIC said that the cause of the Governments order that led to Os closure was not an 
emergency likely to endanger life in the vicinity of Os premises or because of an occurrence 
of COVID-19 within the local area of Os premises. QIC quoted from paragraphs 466 and 
467 of the Divisional Courts judgment in the FCA test case, which in part said:
It follows that the government action and advice in response to the national 
pandemic cannot be said to be due to an emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in 
the neighbourhood, of the insured premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also demonstrate 
that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the 
neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the country as a whole, 
which led to the actions or advice of the government...
QIC explained that this part of the Divisional Courts judgment had not been appealed to the 
Supreme Court. And that this part of the judgment related to policy wording that was 
materially similar to that in Os policy.
O remained unhappy and its complaint was brought to the Ombudsman Service. Our 
Investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He noted the Divisional Courts 
judgment and that this had not been appealed to the Supreme Court. However, he also 
noted that the Supreme Court had made findings in relation to causation and felt that its 
reasoning was relevant to how the clause in Os policy ought to be considered. And that 
whilst he recognised that some of the wording considered by the Divisional Court was 
materially similar to Os policy, he noted that the judge in Corbin & King Limited v AXA 
Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) (Corbin & King), as well as Lord Mance in the 
arbitration of Certain Policyholders v China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (the China 
Taiping arbitration)1, had said there were a number of reasons why the Divisional Courts 
decision might not bind them in the relevant circumstances. 
So, our Investigator thought about whether the Public Emergency clause in Os policy could 
provide cover in the circumstance of Os claim. He felt the policy would provide cover where 
a policyholder could show there had been an occurrence of COVID-19 within the vicinity of 
the insured premises prior to the Governments decision to introduce the restrictions that led 
to the premises closure. As such, he didnt think QIC had come to the correct decision on 
the claim and it should reassess the claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy.
QIC disagreed. It said the outcome from the Investigator was not fair or reasonable, and was 
wrong as a matter of law. It considered the Investigator was ignoring settled law  i.e. that 
of the Divisional Court in the FCA test case  and was seeking to second guess what a 
higher court would determine were the question asked of such a court. QIC also said that it 
had acted fairly when considering the claim and that it had taken into account the relevant 
FCA guidance as well as the law. 
As QIC did not agree with the Investigators recommendation, this complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
QIC has also suggested that the Ombudsman Service should cease considering this 
complaint, so that a further test case in the courts could provide a route to the resolution of 
this issue. This is an option as set out in DISP 3.4.2 R of the FCA Handbook. However, the 
guidance following this rule provides a non-exhaustive list of factors that may be taken into 
account when considering whether to cease considering the merits. This includes the stage 
already reached in consideration of the dispute. I considered this, also taking into account 
the other factors listed as well as the general circumstances. 
1 A copy of the arbitration award is available on China Taipings website - 
https://uk.cntaiping.com/tplresource/cms/www/taiping/file/Award_ANNEXA.zip.Given Os complaint has ongoing since 2021, that this Service asked for QICs comments on 
the impact of Corbin & King in May 2022 but no reference was made to the potential of a test 
case at that time, and that the merits of the complaint have been considered by an 
Investigator who has issued his opinion, I was not minded to agree that ceasing to consider 
the merits of the complaint at this time would be appropriate. And informed QIC of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes, but is not limited to, the judgments of the Divisional and Supreme Courts in 
the FCA test case, the judgment of the High Court in Corbin & King, the China Taiping 
arbitration, and the guidance issued by the FCA in relation to the handling of COVID-19 
related business interruption claims by insurers2. 
Additionally, whilst I have considered all of the parties submissions, I have focussed this 
decision on what I consider are the key issues. 
I consider that the fundamental issue is whether or not QICs decision to decline Os claim 
was appropriate. And the focus here is on whether the Public Emergency clause ought to be 
considered to provide cover in the circumstances. 
The Public Emergency clause in Os policy is a composite one, so it requires all of the 
elements of the clause to be present before there is cover. It is apparently not disputed that 
the Government could be considered a Public Authority for the purposes of the clause, nor 
that the Governments instructions and restrictions were actions or advice which prevented 
or hindered the use or access to Os premises. Generally speaking, QIC also agrees that 
COVID-19 could be considered an emergency likely to endanger life. So, the key question is 
whether this was an emergency in the vicinity of Os premises and caused Os losses. 
The reasons the judge in Corbin & King was able to reach her judgment
QIC has relied on the reasoning of the Divisional Court in the FCA test case, including the 
quote above from paragraphs 466 and 467, to support the decision it had made on Os 
claim. 
QIC has said that the view of the Investigator was a departure from settled law as it relates 
to the policy wording. In making this comment, QIC apparently considers that the decision in 
the Divisional Court in the FCA test case represent the, current, final determination of the 
meaning of the wording used in Os policy  as this was materially identical to that in the 
RSA 2.1 policy and the findings of the Divisional Court in relation to this aspect of the 
RSA 2.1 policy was not appealed to the Supreme Court.
QIC has also referenced the judgment in Corbin & King to support its argument that the 
Divisional Courts judgment has already determined whether or not a clause such as that in 
Os policy would provide cover in circumstances similar to Os claim. 
QIC has said that Cockerill J, the judge in Corbin & King, confirmed that she would be bound 
by a judgment of the Divisional Court  this being a higher court. QIC has also said that 
Cockerill J made it clear that there were differences in the policy wording which was relevant 
2 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised-guidance/finalised-guidance-bi-test-case.pdfin Corbin & King and the wordings considered by the Divisional Court. And that this is what 
enabled her to reach a judgment in that case.
However, it is quite clear from the judges comments in Corbin & King that, although she 
accepted that she would generally be bound to follow a decision of the Divisional Court, she 
did not consider she was bound by the Divisional Courts decision in the FCA test case. And, 
significantly, this was not just because the wording of the policy in Corbin & King was 
different. Cockerill J made it clear that there were three reasons why she was not bound to 
follow the Divisional Courts reasoning. As well as the wording of the policy being different, 
she explained that the Supreme Courts reasoning, including that on causation, had moved 
the goalposts and that this had then led to a different question being relevant. The second 
and third reasons were additional and discrete to the first (see in particular paragraphs 
158-169 of the Corbin & King judgment).
So, whilst I note the judges comments in Corbin & King about one of the reasons why she 
was not bound in that case to follow the Divisional Court being the difference in the relevant 
policy wordings, I do not consider this to be the only reason a lower court might not be 
bound in similar circumstances. And it is clear that where the goalposts have moved or 
where a different question is being asked, a lower court may be entitled to reach a different 
conclusion to that in the Divisional Court  regardless of whether the relevant wording is 
similar or even materially identical. 
This is supported by the comments of Lord Mance in the China Taiping arbitration. I have not 
repeated the relevant comments here and I note they were made obiter  meaning they 
were an expression of Lord Mances opinion rather than legally binding or essential to his 
decision. I note that an arbitration award does not set a precedent. However, within her 
judgment, Cockerill J also agreed with the comments made by Lord Mance at paragraphs 53 
and 54 of the China Taiping arbitration award.  
I note QIC has referred to this Service second guessing what a court might say.  Under 
DISP 3.6.4R, this Service is required to take into account relevant law (amongst other 
factors) when considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. So, 
in considering what is fair and reasonable in Os complaint, I have had to think about what a 
court would likely determine were its case presented at this time.
The approach to causation
The moving of the goalposts refers to the Supreme Courts findings that each case of 
COVID-19 was an equal and proximate cause of the introduction of the government-imposed 
restrictions. This approach to causation was different to that applied by the Divisional Court. 
In relation to causation, the Divisional Courts preferred view was that the cause of the 
business interruption was COVID-19 of which individual outbreaks formed an indivisible part. 
I think that were a court now considering a claim relating to the circumstance of Os 
complaint would likely apply the reasoning of the Supreme Court on causation, rather than 
that of the Divisional Court, for the second and third reasons given by Cockerill J, as set out 
above. 
So, whilst I note the Divisional Court concluded a clause like that in Os policy would not 
have provided cover in the circumstances of a claim like Os, this appears to have been 
because of the way the parties arguments were framed, with the result that the court 
considered that a claimant would need to be able to demonstrate that the government-
imposed restrictions were the result of a specific case of COVID-19 in the vicinity of their 
insured premises, rather than cases nationwide. The Divisional Court considered this to be highly unlikely. Whereas, although the finding was made in relation to a different type of 
clause, the Supreme Court held that each individual case of COVID-19 was an equal and 
proximate cause of the Government action. 
As I say, this finding was made in relation to a different type of clause to that Os policy. The 
Supreme Court acknowledged at paragraph 250 of its judgment that, as those proceedings 
did not involve the specific consideration of other clauses, it was unnecessary to address 
them. It did though say:
In principle, however, a similar analysis must apply to those [hybrid and prevention 
of access] clauses as to the clauses which we have specifically addressed. 
Lord Mance was required to consider a policy requiring an emergency in the China Taiping 
arbitration. Again, whilst the reasoning in this arbitration award is not binding on QIC, O or 
the Ombudsman Service (or indeed the courts), I feel it is useful to refer to it in light of my 
requirement to consider all of the circumstances of the case. Lord Mance said at paragraph 
65:
although the causation required under an insurance is, in the last analysis, a 
matter of construction, the Supreme Court was, contrary to the Insurers submission, 
prepared to state quite generally that its general approach to causation was 
applicable across the whole range of wordings, ranging from Disease clauses to 
Hybrid clauses to NDDA clauses 
Once it is accepted that the emergency may at the same time be elsewhere and 
threaten life or property elsewhere, the Supreme Courts analysis of the relevant 
elements of cover and its conclusion that a but for test of causation was 
inappropriate would seem readily transposable to [the non-damage denial of access 
clause in the arbitration]
I therefore doubt whether the Divisional Court could or would have approached the 
matter as it did in paragraphs 466 and 467 had it had the benefit of the Supreme 
Courts analysis.
The relevant question
The Supreme Courts approach to causation in turn means that a different question may be 
relevant when considering a claim such as Os. 
To me, one of the crucial issues with QIC relying so heavily on the conclusions of the 
Divisional Court is that when considering those clauses similar to the Public Emergency 
clause in Os policy, the Divisional Court took the view that the emergency was the national 
pandemic. And, essentially, found that the vicinity requirement in the clause was not met by 
such a geographically broad event as the whole pandemic. Rather than approaching the 
question of cover from the point of view that it was the pandemic in general that led to the 
government-imposed restrictions, in light of the Supreme Courts reasoning, I consider that I 
need to ask whether the narrow, localised cover provided by Os policy  which requires an 
emergency in the vicinity of the premises  would be activated as a result of a single case of 
COVID-19 within that vicinity.
Cockerill J in Corbin & King also drew a distinction from the previous logic used in the 
Divisional Court test case and said, at paragraph 166:
at that point it was assumed that the Regulations could only be viewed as having 
been caused by the pandemic and not by individual cases. In effect therefore one 
can see from the Court's explanation of the arguments that in the Divisional Court the 
assumption by all involved that but for causation was applicable meant that the weight of the FCA construction arguments in favour of cover logically had to fall 
within parameters which would then be able to produce a but for causation result.
As Ive said, the Supreme Court considered that each and every case of COVID-19 was an 
equal and proximate cause of the Governments decision-making process.
Cockerill J went on to say, at paragraph 193:
the approach advocated for by the Claimants  to view COVID-19 as a danger, 
with manifestations within the radius, is more coherent with a straightforward reading 
of the clause as the hypothetical SME user would do.
It should be noted that this wording related to a danger, rather than an emergency, in the 
vicinity of the premises and I will return to this. But ultimately, I do not consider this 
difference to mean that the judges logic does not equally apply to the clause in Os policy. 
So, whilst I appreciate QICs point that the wording in Os policy is not the same as the 
wording considered in Corbin & King, and is indeed materially identical to that in the RSA 2.1 
policy considered in the FCA test case, Ive also thought about whether applying the 
conclusion reached by the Divisional Court creates a fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances of Os complaint. And taking into account the more recent developments in 
the Supreme Court, Corbin & King and  to a more limited extent  the China Taiping 
arbitration, I am not minded to conclude that it does. 
Taking the above into account, I dont consider that it would be a departure from settled law 
 as QIC has referred to the situation  for me to consider Os complaint in light of the 
developments that followed the Divisional Court judgment in the FCA test case. 
Was there an emergency in the vicinity of Os premises?
I shall now move on to consider whether or not the circumstances of Os claim mean that 
there was, most likely, an emergency in the vicinity of its premises that led to the 
government-imposed restrictions which caused it to close. 
QIC has said the policy only provides cover for localised emergencies and has referred to 
the paradigm examples  such as a bomb scare, gas leak, or traffic accident. Cockerill J 
considered similar arguments in relation to the policy wording before her in Corbin & King. 
However, as well as the comments at paragraph 193 quoted above, Cockerill J said at 
paragraph 205 that it was: 
consistent with the conclusion which the Supreme Court reached on disease 
clauses that there is no reason why that danger cannot be one or more cases of 
COVID-19 within the radius. 
I do not consider that the interpretation of how this would apply to a clause requiring an 
emergency would be any different. 
There is no definition of what emergency means within Os policy. So it is necessary to 
consider how it would likely be interpreted in the context of the policy. I do note that other 
than the vicinity requirement, the wording of this clause is the same as the Arch wording 
considered in the FCA test case. The Divisional Court said, at paragraph 405, that:
the COVID-19 pandemic can properly be described as an emergency which is 
likely to endanger life
I do not consider whether the emergency is considered to be the individual cases 
themselves, or the presence of the pandemic more generally, within the vicinity to make any material difference here. Each individual case of a disease could be an emergency, 
depending on the situation, including the nature of the disease (and subject to the exclusion 
for particular diseases, which I consider below). The COVID-19 pandemic more generally 
was made up of the individual cases, each of which was an equal and concurrent cause of 
the government-imposed restrictions. That the emergency might be considered a single 
situation is immaterial as long as it existed within the vicinity  even if it existed in other 
areas.
So, I think this is a fair and reasonable approach to take in this case. And I think that an 
emergency could be one or more cases of COVID-19 within the vicinity of the insured 
premises. 
I do note that Cockerill J did state, at paragraph 156:
Emergency likely to endanger life in the vicinity may mean something different to a 
danger within a mile.
The judgment she reached was in relation to a clause that required danger within a mile. 
QICs view is that her comments here were because she considered the wording used in Os 
policy was the paradigm example of a localised event clause that differed from the clause 
she was considering in Corbin & King. However, I dont think Cockerill J made any express 
statement of this kind or that she came to this conclusion. I note the use of the word may 
within the quote above. And any conclusion Cockerill J reached in relation to particular 
wording pointing to the paradigm situation was only in relation to a clause requiring an 
incident, as per paragraph 157 of her judgment. 
As above, I think a case of COVID-19 in the vicinity of Os premises could be considered an 
emergency. 
I also think that, in relation to the circumstances of this case, a mile radius could be 
considered the vicinity. As the Divisional Court said, at paragraph 406:
the vicinity of premises is an elastic concept, but it does connote neighbourhood. 
In a given case it might encompass a greater area than the one mile radius, in 
another case it might encompass a smaller area.
So, in order to determine the appropriate vicinity, it may be necessary to consider the 
relevant circumstances and type of emergency that has led to the claim. This is a question of 
fact that QIC may need to determine. 
That said, given the circumstances of Os claim, I consider that use of a mile radius would 
qualify as the vicinity of the premises  though it is also likely that a smaller or larger radius 
could equally qualify. 
Whether or not there was a case of COVID-19 within a mile of Os premises does not appear 
to be a matter that has been discussed. However, taking into account the publicly available 
data reported on the FCAs calculator, it seems evident that there were cases of COVID-19 
within a mile of Os premises in March 2020.  I dont consider I need to make any further 
finding here though. It is enough to say that I consider that if there was at least one such 
case, there was an emergency likely to endanger life in the vicinity of Os premises.  
I also do not consider that the clause in Os policy only provides cover in relation to 
emergencies which occur exclusively within the vicinity  as opposed to one that occurs both 
within and outside the vicinity. There is no limitation in the clause to this effect. Neither are 
there other indicators within the context of the policy to indicate that the emergency needs to 
be a purely local one. The disease clause
Os policy also includes a clause specifically providing cover in relation to disease. And there 
is an exclusion within the Public Emergency clause that refers back to this Disease clause. 
However, COVID-19 isnt one of the diseases listed within the Disease clause, so the 
exclusion does not apply to the claim. 
And I do not consider that the presence of the Disease clause itself means that the only 
cover provided in relation to diseases is that contained in that clause. There are significant 
differences, regardless of the cause of the claim, between the Public Emergency clause and 
the Disease clause - such as the financial limit, geographical restrictions, and indemnity 
period. And I consider there is good reason why cover might have been provided in relation 
to diseases under the Public Emergency clause that are not covered under the Disease 
clause. 
Was QICs decision fair and reasonable?
QIC has also provided comments in relation to whether or not it acted fairly when declining 
Os claim or that this was an unreasonable decision. I note it has said it applied the 
Divisional Court judgment to Os policy and has said that, as issues directly relating to the 
relevant clauses were not appealed to the Supreme Court, this means the decision it 
reached was fair and reasonable. It has referred to the June 2020 FCA guidance around 
how insurers might handle claims in light of the FCA test case. And has said that it followed 
this guidance appropriately.
QIC has also said that the FCA has not issued formal guidance on clauses such as the 
Public Emergency clause in Os policy. However, in June 2022, the FCA did issue a note 
relating to the impact of Corbin & King encouraging insurers to reconsider their position in 
relation to clauses such as that in Os policy. Whilst this may not have amounted to formal 
guidance, I think it is at least suggestive of the FCAs expectations. 
Regardless of any specific FCA guidance though, the fundamental question is whether or 
not QIC reached the correct decision when considering Os claim. As Cockerill J put it:
It is also not the case that  the Divisional Court erred or that the Divisional Courts 
analysis is undermined by the decision of the Supreme Court; but rather that the 
decision of the Supreme Court has moved the goalposts and the argument which has 
emerged is materially different.
So, the question around Os complaint then becomes, did QIC consider the claim based on 
the appropriate argument. And, if not, did this then lead to Os claim being inappropriately 
declined. Based on the reasoning above, I consider that QIC did not come to the correct 
conclusion in relation to Os claim. And it follows that by declining the claim, and then not 
amending this decision when considering Os complaint, QIC did not act fairly and 
reasonably.
Putting things right
QIC Europe Ltd should reconsider Mrs G and Mr Gs claim on the basis that, if there was a 
case of COVID-19 within a mile of Os premises prior to the introduction of the government-
imposed restrictions, there was an emergency likely to endanger life or property in the 
vicinity of Os premises that led to the Government taking actions and giving advice that 
hindered or prevented use or access to Os premises. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman