DRN-3757821
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Scottish Widows Limited incorrectly calculated the death benefits that 
she was entitled to from her late husbands pension policy.
What happened
Mrs Ss late husband had pension policies with Scottish Widows. And following his 
death Scottish Widows paid death benefits from those pensions to the parties that it 
considered to be the beneficiaries. The trustees decided to split the benefits equally 
between three beneficiaries. Scottish Widows didnt consider Mrs S to have been a 
beneficiary at that time.
Mrs S brought a complaint to our service about that. And a final decision was issued 
in 2020 directing that Scottish Widows reconsidered its decision to take into account 
further information that hadnt been considered previously.
Scottish Widows considered the matter again, and in light of the additional 
information agreed that Mrs S should have been included as a fourth beneficiary.
Scottish Widows contacted Mrs S to confirm that shed be paid a sum equal to 25% 
of the final value of the pension fund, prior to settlement, to compensate her for the 
share of the pension benefits it decided she should have been entitled to. 
Scottish Widows also paid her 8% simple interest on the payment to compensate her 
for the loss of use on those benefits because of the delay in payment. 
Mrs S complained to Scottish Widows, via her legal representative, that the 
settlement still wasnt fair. She argued that she should receive a benefit of an equal 
share to that already received by the three previously recognised beneficiaries.
Scottish Widows didnt agree. It explained that Mrs S was being offered the 
equivalent of the 25% share of the death benefits that she would have been entitled 
to as a fourth beneficiary. But in checking its calculations it identified that it had made 
an error and underpaid her by £300. It corrected this and offered £500 compensation 
for that error and its delay in responding to the complaint. 
Mrs S didnt agree and brought her complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld. 
He thought that the way Scottish Widows dealt with the final decision on Mrs Ss 
beneficial interest had been fair.
Mrs Ss legal representative explained that Mrs S disagreed with the investigators 
view. He argued:
- that it was incorrect to refer to or rely on the previous decision when considering 
this complaint;
- that its application for the award of legal costs was justified;
- that Scottish Widows failure to provide an expression of wish form should at least 
be considered negligent, and requested a finding about the implications of the 
failure to provide the expression of wish form;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that there have been many arguments raised by Mrs Ss legal representative. 
So Ill start by explaining that were here to provide an alternative dispute resolution service. 
Were an informal alternative to the courts. And my aim is to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. I assure Mrs S that Ive read and considered all her representatives submissions. 
But in summarising my findings Ive focussed on what I consider to be the crux of her 
complaint. Which from her original complaint to Scottish Widows was that she ought to have 
received benefits equal to those received by the existing death beneficiaries. I will explain 
why I think that the answer that our investigator has already provided was fair in all the 
circumstances:
Mrs S has already had her previous complaint, about whether Scottish Widows fairly 
considered her claim to be treated as a beneficiary of her late husbands pensions, 
dealt with by our service. So this decision will only consider what has happened 
since. Namely, whether or not Scottish Widows latest determination was fair and 
reasonable.
Whilst I understand the drawn out process that led to Mrs S being recognised as a 
beneficiary, the decision as to who qualifies to benefit under pension death benefit 
rules rests with the trustees of those pensions. This was explained in the earlier final 
decision that Mrs S received and I will not repeat it here. But it led to Scottish Widows 
considering Mrs Ss claim as a beneficiary again. 
Scottish Widows did that. And changed its earlier decision. Its new decision was that 
Mrs S ought to have been considered as a fourth beneficiary. With an equal share. 
Ive seen no evidence or arguments that this decision is now contested. 
Scottish Widows conclusion that Mrs S should then be paid a sum equal to a quarter 
of the total benefits appears to be a natural and logical conclusion. The decision 
being that she was a fourth and equal beneficiary. And therefore the offer that 
followed seems fair and reasonable. And included an element of interest to account 
for the time that Mrs S was deprived of that money. Which I agree was fair and 
reasonable.
I recognise that the other three beneficiaries already received their share of the death 
benefits prior to Scottish Widows latest decision. It means that they ought only to 
have received a quarter each, instead of the third they actually received. 
But I dont agree that the consequence of that mistake is that Scottish Widows ought 
now to pay Mrs S a value equivalent to a third of the pension fund, when she has 
been recognised as having a one quarter beneficial interest in those death benefits. 
And I disagree with her legal representatives suggestion that Scottish Widows are 
somehow profiting from its mistake. The entire value of the pension death benefits 
was already settled between the previous three beneficiaries. So any compensatory 
sum that Mrs S has now been paid is additional to that.In its investigation into Mrs Ss complaint Scottish Widows identified a different issue 
than the one complained about. It appears to be a clerical issue which meant the 
sum paid to Mrs S was £300 short. So Scottish Widows put this right. It wasnt an 
issue that Mrs S was aware of prior to it being disclosed, so I dont think that it was 
an issue responsible for causing any of the distress or inconvenience that Mrs S 
experienced.
Scottish Widows made an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint. But made it clear 
that this was in in compensation for the upset of the clerical error that led to the 
payment being wrong by £300. And the time it took to respond to the complaint. 
Mrs S should contact Scottish Widows directly if she now wishes to accept this.
Mrs Ss legal representative asked that our service consider awarding the legal costs 
Mrs S incurred. As our investigator has explained, this complaint is not being upheld, 
so I will not be directing Scottish Widows to do anything further.
I understand that Mrs Ss legal representative requested a determination on Scottish 
Widows inability to provide an expression of wish form for Mrs Ss late husbands 
policies. I will not specifically address that concern. It was addressed in our services 
previous decision. And I do not consider it to be pertinent to the outcome of this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont think Scottish Widows Limited need to do anything further to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman