DRN-3401598
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains that Metro Bank PLC terminated its Bounce 
Back Loan facility. 
Es directors, Mr T and Miss T, bring the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
E held a number of accounts with Metro. 
Metro wrote to E on 4 June 2020, explaining that it had decided to close all of Es accounts 
following a review. The accounts were to be closed on 5 August 2020. 
Miss T says that there was a delay in E receiving this letter. Having not received it, the 
company approached Metro for a Bounce Back Loan on 11 June. Metro approved Es 
application and a loan of £21,000 was drawn down into its current account with the bank the 
following day.
Shortly thereafter, Metro realised it ought not to have approved the application as it was in 
the process of closing Es accounts. So it restricted Es access to the loan funds while it 
considered how to proceed.
E opened an account elsewhere and attempted to transfer the loan funds from its Metro 
account. But it discovered that it was unable to access them and queried things with the 
bank. Over the weeks that followed, Es directors continued to chase Metro for an update. 
The companys accounts remained open past the scheduled closure date, but the Bounce 
Back Loan funds remained inaccessible.
Metro confirmed to Miss T in October 2020 that it had decided to proceed with the closure of 
Es accounts and would not be providing the loan as a result of this. It said it didnt provide 
Bounce Back Loans to customers that didnt bank with Metro, or those exiting the bank  as 
E had been at the time of its application. 
Es accounts were subsequently closed and the Bounce Back Loan facility was terminated. 
Miss T doesnt think Metro treated E fairly. She says, in summary, that:
Metro didnt allow E to respond to its decision to close the companys accounts and 
that it had limited options when trying to open a new account elsewhere in the middle 
of the pandemic  ultimately, it ended up with an expensive e-money account.
E had acted in anticipation of being able to use the funds once the Bounce Back 
Loan application was approved. It lost its biggest client because it was left without 
these funds. And she spent at least 20 hours trying to resolve the issue, taking her 
away from the business. So to put things right, she wants Metro to pay E 
compensation of £21,000, being equivalent to the loan amount.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Es complaint last month, explaining why I thought it 
should be upheld in part. 
Regarding the closure of Es accounts, I said:
Under the terms and conditions of Es accounts, Metro was entitled to close the 
account at any time by giving two months notice. Generally speaking, such decisions 
are a matter of the banks commercial discretion. Ive not seen anything that leads 
me to think that Metros decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances 
here. 
Miss T queries the basis of Metros decision but it isnt obliged to give its reasons and 
I cant fairly require it to do so. I appreciate the decision came at an unfortunate time 
for E, but the circumstances of the time didnt affect Metros right to review and end 
its relationship with a customer. And the bank wasnt required to discuss this with E 
before reaching its decision, or offer it a right of appeal along the lines Miss T 
suggests.
Metro wrote to E on 4 June 2020 with notice that it would close the companys 
accounts at the close of business on 5 August 2020  so it provided sufficient notice 
as required under the terms and conditions. Miss T says there was a delay in E 
receiving this letter, which is regrettable. But it was correctly addressed and the 
banks internal records evidence that it was sent. So I dont think this was due to an 
error on Metros part.
Miss T doesnt think that the 60-day notice period was sufficient given the 
circumstances of the time. I recognise that the pandemic wouldve had an impact on 
things  both in terms of Es own resources to deal with having to find a new account, 
and that there were fewer options when it came to arranging alternative banking 
facilities. But I dont think that warranted an extension. I still think that the two months 
provided, in line with the terms and conditions, was reasonable. In any event, I 
understand from what Miss T told us that E was able to find alternative facilities 
within that period.
I also understand from what Miss T has told us that the companys new account is 
more costly than the one it had with Metro. But as Ive not found Metro did anything 
wrong in closing Es accounts, it follows that it isnt responsible for any additional cost 
that E might have incurred in replacing them.
And in relation to the Bounce Back Loan, I said:
Metro was only offering Bounce Back Loans to its existing customers. As it was 
terminating its relationship with E, the company was not eligible for a Bounce Back 
Loan from Metro. So its application ought not to have been approved.
Irrespective of whether E received Metros notice to close the companys accounts, I 
think it is an error on Metros part that the application was allowed to proceed. I dont 
think it wouldve been obvious to E that it wouldnt be eligible to apply to the bank for 
a loan in the circumstances. The application should either have not been allowed to 
proceed at all, or simply declined on review. Instead, it was approved and ultimately 
the loan was provided.Once the loan was paid out in error, Metro had to take steps to recover it. The terms 
and conditions of the loan allowed for its termination in certain circumstances. As E 
should not have received it in the first place, I think it was reasonable for Metro to 
recall it. Ive not seen that Metro applied any additional charges or interest to the 
loan  rather, it simply recovered the amount that it had advanced.
Unfortunately, the recovery action that Metro took was rather drawn-out. The loan 
was drawn down on 12 June 2020 but it wasnt until 21 October 2020 that Metro 
confirmed it wasnt willing to honour the agreement. And it was still only sometime 
later that the agreement was properly terminated and the funds recalled. Even 
accepting that Metro was reliant on a third party for guidance, I still think its 
responsible for these lengthy delays  as it was an error on its part that necessitated 
the recovery action in the first place.
As I think Metro made errors in how it handled things, Ive gone on to consider 
whether E lost out as a result of what went wrong. 
Ive taken into account what Miss T told us about the impact that the matter had on E. 
She says that E acted in reliance on the funds and that being left without them meant 
that the company lost its biggest client. But shes not provided us with any evidence 
to demonstrate this  or, most importantly, how the expectation of the funds caused 
any losses in this regard. As above, the company was never entitled to the loan  so 
while it may have had to abort its plans when this wasnt provided, that was the 
position it was always going to be in. There is no basis on which I could fairly require 
Metro to pay E the £21,000 compensation that Miss T has proposed.
However, I do think the matter put E to some significant inconvenience. Given the 
lengthy delays, Es directors were in contact and correspondence with Metro on a 
number of occasions over several months in an effort to resolve things one way or 
another  ultimately raising a complaint and referring the matter to us. Miss T has 
also explained that E liaised with the Loan Scheme administrator in order to try and 
find a solution. The company needed Metro to either provide the loan or withdraw it 
(so that it could apply elsewhere). As this wasnt arranged swiftly, E had to make 
alternative arrangements and obtain borrowing through other means (which I 
understand Miss T arranged in her own name).
All of this caused E inconvenience, taking Mr T and Miss T away from the companys 
operations during an already challenging time. So I think it would be fair for Metro to 
pay E compensation of £500 for this.
I invited both parties to respond with any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
take into account before I made a final decision. Metro confirmed it had nothing further to 
add. Miss T didnt accept my provisional decision and replied to say, in summary, that:
She had been in touch with Metro in March 2020 to enquire as to when it would start 
offering Bounce Back Loans to its customers and had delayed making alternative 
arrangements based on the assurances it provided.
She hadnt personally applied for any pandemic-related financial support on principle, 
but her company needed it, was eligible for it and always intended to repay it. 
E had attempted to obtain a bank account elsewhere but its applications werent 
even considered due to the impact of the pandemic, leaving it with no choice but to 
arrange a costly e-money account instead.Metro had acted unfairly in withdrawing the loan after it had been approved, as E met 
the requirements and was a customer of the bank at the time it applied. She thought 
it had either acted negligently in approving the loan or maliciously in declining to 
provide it without good reason. And shed offered to repay the loan from an 
alternative account, but Metro wouldnt even consider this. 
There was no basis for me to conclude that E had ended up in the position that it was 
always going to be in, particularly as the company was eligible for the loan as 
evidenced by the banks initial approval of the application. E couldnt apply for a loan 
elsewhere, as a business could only obtain one Bounce Back Loan and the records 
would show that the company already had one  as a result of Metros error, which it 
failed to correct in good time.
The compensation I had proposed didnt cover the costs to E that flowed from 
Metros errors, bearing in mind the costly e-money account and a personal loan that 
she had arranged in lieu of the Bounce Back Loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why Miss Ts further comments havent changed my mind. 
Firstly, Miss T says that the company didnt make arrangements to open another account 
elsewhere as it had relied on assurances from Metro that it would be offering lending under 
the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. But Ive not seen that Metro misinformed E in any way  it 
responded to the companys queries with appropriate information and without guaranteeing 
either that it would be able to offer lending or, more pertinently, that it would definitely be 
able to offer a loan to E. It was up to E to decide whether or not it wished to wait to see if 
Metro would be accredited as a lender or if it wished to apply elsewhere. So the bank isnt 
responsible for any consequences of the choice that E made in this respect.
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think Metro had done anything wrong in 
how it had closed Es bank accounts and Miss T hasnt said anything that leads me to a 
different conclusion on that. So while I understand that the company has obtained a more 
expensive account to replace the one it held with Metro, I cant hold the bank responsible for 
these costs. The compensation Id proposed wasnt to cover any losses in this respect  but 
rather for the inconvenience that E was caused as a result of Metros error in approving the 
loan when it shouldnt have done.
The crux of the matter is whether Metro was entitled to withdraw the Bounce Back Loan from 
E and, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I still think it was. The bank was only 
providing to loans to existing customers  a decision it was entitled to make under the rules 
of the Scheme. And while I accept there may be an argument to say that E was still a 
customer of the bank at the time of its loan application, I think it was up to the bank to decide 
whether it wished to accept applications from customers with whom it was withdrawing 
facilities  like E.
I note Miss T also says that Metros decision to accept applications only from existing 
customers wasnt made clear to her. But its requirements in this respect were published on 
its website at the time, and thats as much as Id reasonably expect it to have done to share 
this information. The fact that Es application was initially approved was an error and clearly caused some 
problems. But in and of itself it doesnt confirm Es eligibility and the bank wasnt obliged to 
honour its erroneous decision. As explained in my provisional decision, the loan could be 
terminated in certain circumstances and it was reasonable for Metro to withdraw the loan in 
light of what happened here. It was similarly entitled to reject Miss Ts proposal to keep the 
loan but make payments from an alternative account.
I still dont think Metros error in approving the loan left the company in a different position 
than it otherwise wouldve been. Ive explained why E wasnt eligible for a loan from Metro. 
And as E wasnt able to get a new account with another provider, it wasnt able to apply to 
any other lender for a Bounce Back Loan either. So even accepting that there was a delay in 
terminating the facility and amending the relevant records, I dont think this prejudiced Es 
position  in that I dont think the company wouldve obtained a loan elsewhere anyway.
Ive taken into account all of Miss Ts points, including that she didnt apply for any of the 
other support that the government made available in response to the pandemic. But neither 
that nor Es need for the Bounce Back Loan is enough for me to say that Metro did 
something wrong in refusing to provide the loan. For the reasons Ive given, I dont think the 
bank incorrectly declined to provide the loan to E or stopped it from accessing one 
elsewhere.
It follows that I dont think Metro is responsible for any losses E may have incurred as a 
result of being left without a Bounce Back Loan. So I remain of the view that the fair way to 
resolve the complaint is for Metro to compensate E for the inconvenience it was caused as a 
result of the banks erroneous approval of the loan application initially. And for that, I still 
think £500 is fair compensation  so thats what Im requiring Metro to pay. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and require Metro Bank PLC to 
pay compensation of £500 to E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Ombudsman