DRN-2736218
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt give her the 
opportunity to increase her premiums to keep the sum assured at the original value when 
her whole of life policy was reviewed.
What happened
Mrs M took out the reviewable whole of life policy with Aviva in 1993. The original sum 
assured was around £95,000 with a monthly premium of around £22.
The policy wasnt reviewed in line with its terms and conditions from the outset. This was 
addressed in 2014 by Aviva when this Service was involved in a complaint concerning this 
particular issue. As a result, Aviva reconstructed and remediated the policy to its correct 
status in light of the reviews that should have been carried out. 
However, after this complaint was resolved the next policy review due in 2018 also didnt 
take place. When Aviva recognised this in May 2020 it wrote to Mrs M to explain what had 
happened again. It also explained that it had carried out the review that was due two years 
before and found the premiums being paid into the policy were not enough to maintain the 
sum assured. The letter provided Mrs M with two options  to increase her premiums to 
maintain the sum assured or keep the premiums as they were and accept a reduced sum 
assured  to around £27,000.
This letter also stated that if nothing was heard from Mrs M by 22 June 2020 the policy 
would default to a reduce sum assured. It also stated that the policy could be restored if 
Mrs M contacted Aviva before 22 July 2020 and agreed to the increase in premiums.
Mrs M has explained that she never received this letter from Aviva. But she did receive a 
letter dated 10 July 2020 which stated her policy sum assured had been reduced as she 
hadnt contacted Aviva in relation to the May letter. This is what prompted Mrs M to contact 
Aviva where she found out about the earlier letter that was sent to her in May.
Mrs M explained to Aviva that she wanted to maintain the sum assured at the original level 
and would pay the back pay in premiums and increase her premiums going forward in order 
for this to happen. But as Mrs M had contacted Aviva on 27 July 2020 five days after the 
deadline set out in the May letter Aviva refused to allow her to do this so she had to accept 
the reduced sum assured.
Aviva was satisfied Mrs M had received the may letter and had just left it too long to contact 
it.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it should be upheld. He 
was satisfied that Mrs M, in all likelihood hadnt received the May letter where the deadlines 
were set out because it hadnt contained her correct address details. He felt that as the letter 
of 10 July didnt contain any deadlines up to which point the policy could be restored Mrs M 
wouldnt have known that she had a timeframe to contact Aviva to rectify the matter. He 
therefore felt Aviva should allow Mrs M the opportunity to restore her policy back to the 
original sum assured, allow her increase her premiums and pay the back pay in increased 
premiums.
Aviva didnt agree with the assessment. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld.
The key point for me to decide to whether I think Mrs M received the letter of 18 May 2020 
and was just too late to contact Aviva or whether she didnt receive it and only received the 
one dated 10 July 2020 which contained no information about being able to restore the 
policy if she confirmed this within a specific time period.
I have looked at both the letters. The one from May 2020 is very detailed  it explained the 
policy had again not been reviewed correctly and that having now done this the premiums 
werent enough to maintain the sum assured. The options presented to Mrs M in this letter 
clearly set out as were the two pertinent deadlines if nothing was heard from Mrs M by 22 
June 2020 the policy would default to a reduce sum assured; but if she wanted to restore the 
policy to its original sum assured she would have to contact Aviva before 22 July 2020 and 
agree to the increase in premiums.
The letter from 10 July which Mrs M says she did receive doesnt contain any details about 
Mrs M being able to restore the sum assured or any timeframes within which this could be 
done. It just confirmed that the sum assured had been reduced.
It seems strange to me that the two letters contained such different information and I cant 
see how this is a fair and reasonable approach by Aviva. Given these policies are very 
important to most people who hold them I think Aviva should have given as much 
information about them and whatever options may have been open at all points of contact.
Furthermore, I can see that the address details on both letters are different. The letter of 18 
May doesnt contain a postcode, but the letter of 10 July does. And while Aviva has said it 
didnt hold a postcode for Mrs M it would appear it did so it isnt clear why it wasnt included 
on the May letter. But in light of this, it doesnt seem wholly impossible that Mrs M only 
received one of those letters  the one with the postcode.
I am also mindful that throughout the process of this complaint Mrs M has been adamant 
that she wants to keep the policy and the original sum assured and that she is willing to 
repay the back pay in premiums. These actions dont seem to be those of someone who 
wouldnt have acted upon receipt of a letter that provided the option to maintain the original 
sum assured.
Therefore, taking these points into account I think its likely Mrs M didnt receive the letter of 
18 May where the deadlines were set out. And I think she would have acted accordingly and 
within the relevant timeframes had she done so. And given the letter of 10 July didnt have 
any deadlines or indeed contain any of the same information as the May letter I dont think 
Mrs M was given all the correct information to enable her to keep the policy at the level she 
wanted.The deadline for the point after which the policy couldnt be restored is a key piece of 
information but by this not being in the May letter how would Mrs M known there was a point 
after which the policy had to remain at the reduced sum assured.
In my view these letters dont contain the same information when they should have. And 
I see no reason this would have been. I think that has been detrimental to Mrs M and I am 
satisfied that, as this seems to be an important policy for her, had she received the letter of 
may she would have acted within he required timescales to ensure she maintained the sum 
assured at the original value.
Putting things right
I think Aviva should allow Mrs M to restore the policy back to the initial sum assured of 
£95,000 if that is still what she wants. She must also agree to pay the back pay in premiums 
required to maintain this sum assured.
I also think Aviva should pay Mrs M a further £100 for not giving her all the correct and 
accurate information at all times which in turn has led to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to 
redress the complaint in line with what has been set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman