DRN-4028111
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Black Horse 
Limited, trading as Jaguar Financial Services, who Ill call Black Horse, was not of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I think Black Horse have done all they need to do here, 
and Im not asking them to take any further action. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Black Horse, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
Theres no dispute that this car was of unsatisfactory quality as about five months after Mr C 
took receipt of it, Mr C broke down and the dealership identified a problem relating to the 
power train that was covered by a manufacturers bulletin.
The relevant legislation explains that if goods are not of satisfactory quality the consumer 
has a right to reject them within 30 days, and a right to have the fault repaired after that if the 
fault can be shown to have been present or developing at the point the goods were supplied.
Whilst the problem was likely to be developing when the car was supplied to Mr C, he didnt 
report a problem until considerably later than 30 days after he took receipt of it. So, Black 
Horse were obligated to repair, and not to reject, the car. It was also appropriate for them to 
consider compensation for distress and inconvenience as Mr C wouldnt have experienced 
that if the car hadnt been of unsatisfactory quality. The compensation awarded of £50 
seems reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr C says the dealership didnt tell him about the manufacturers recall. Ive considered 
whether this would be considered a misrepresentation if the dealership knew about the recall 
but did not disclose it (although I make no finding about that). A misrepresentation is a false 
statement of fact, or of law, that is significant enough to influence a persons decision to 
enter into a contract. However, I dont think the dealership made a false statement of fact or 
law in this case. If they did, it would presumably be that the car wasnt subject to any recalls. 
However, even if such a statement was made, I dont think it would have significantly 
influenced Mr Cs decision to buy the car. 
And, ultimately, I dont think Black Horse have been unreasonable in their approach to this 
complaint. Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman