DRN-3652168
The complaint
Mr P complains about the repairs that Aviva Insurance Limited made to his car after a glass 
claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay £3,000 for further repairs.
 
What happened
Mr P made a claim on his policy for replacement of his windscreen and this was accepted by 
Aviva and the work was carried out by its agent. Afterwards, Mr P noticed issues with the 
replacement and damage to the paintwork. Aviva agreed to repair the paintwork which Mr P 
arranged at a bodyshop of his choice. The agent first removed the windscreen and later 
replaced it. 
Mr P then said there was further damage caused. Aviva agreed to pay for the rear-view 
mirror to be fixed as the cover was damaged, the two side trims to be replaced and for the 
car to be valeted once completed. Mr P provided a quote for £3,000 for further repairs, but 
Aviva said this included unrelated work. 
After the complaint came to our service, Aviva instructed an independent assessor to 
examine the repairs. He concluded that the new damage wasnt consistent with the 
windscreen replacement. He thought it may have been caused by paintwork repairs. Mr P 
then provided a note from the bodyshop saying it hadnt caused the damage. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Aviva could reasonably rely on the expert engineering evidence that the windscreen 
replacement hadnt caused the new interior damage. So he thought Aviva need not pay for 
this part of the repair. 
He thought it should arrange to repair the rear view mirror, replace the windscreen pillar 
trims, and pay for a valet of the car, as it had already agreed. He thought it should assess 
and repair the windscreen if needed. And he thought it should pay Mr P £300 compensation 
for his trouble and upset, reimburse his taxi costs, and reimburse his hire costs while further 
rectification was carried out.
Aviva agreed to do this, but it said its agent should do any further work to the windscreen to 
maintain the guarantee. Mr P replied that he didnt want any repairs made by Avivas agent. 
He thought Avivas agent had caused the interior damage. And he didnt think £300 
compensation was sufficient. Aviva said that if Mr P wouldnt use its agent, then he should 
provide quotes from alternative providers. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P feels frustrated by this episode. I think he can reasonably expect 
his repairs to be completed satisfactorily the first time and not require repeated rectification. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Aviva has already agreed to pay for the following rectification and redress consistent with the 
damage caused by the replacement of the windscreen and the previous rectification:
1. Repair the rear-view mirror with whatever parts are required for it to be fully working,
2. Replace the outside windscreen pillar trims, 
3. Pay for a valet of the car on completion,
4. Have the windscreen assessed and repaired where necessary, 
5. Reimburse Mr P £25.80 for his taxi costs,
6. Reimburse reasonable hire costs whilst further rectification work is done,
7. Pay Mr P £300 for his distress and inconvenience.
From what I can see, the points of contention are the damage to the interior, which Mr P 
says was caused by the agent, who should undertake the further rectification, and the 
amount of compensation Aviva should pay Mr P for his trouble and upset. 
The Investigator has already explained that were not engineers. We dont assess whether or 
how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these 
situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and 
whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Mr P said Avivas agent caused damage to his cars interior and he provided a hand-written 
statement from the bodyshop to say that it hadnt caused this. When theres a dispute about 
repairs, we think an independent assessor should be appointed to resolve the matter. And I 
think Aviva reasonably did this. 
His report concluded that the claimed for damage wasnt consistent with the windscreen 
replacement. But he thought it may be linked to paintwork repairs. I havent seen any further 
expert evidence that Aviva should have considered. And so I think Aviva reasonably 
considered the evidence available and has justified its decision not to pay for the further 
repairs to the interior of the car. 
Mr P declined to take his car back to Avivas agent for further rectification. I can understand 
his reluctance. And so I think Aviva reasonably agreed that he could obtain further quotes for 
the agreed repairs from other providers, as he had done previously. And I think the agreed 
repairs listed above, when carried out, will reasonably restore Mr Ps position.
Aviva offered Mr P £300 compensation for the trouble and upset the poor repairs had 
caused him. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as I think its in keeping 
with our published guidance for the impact the errors had. I dont require Aviva to increase 
this. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following, as its already agreed to do: 
1. Consider quotes provided by Mr P for the agreed further rectification work: 
a. Repair the rear-view mirror with whatever parts are required for it to be fully 
working,
b. Replace the outside windscreen pillar trims, 
c. Pay for a valet of the car on completion,d. Have the windscreen assessed and repaired where necessary, 
2. Reimburse Mr P £25.80 for his taxi costs,
3. Reimburse Mr Ps reasonable hire costs whilst further rectification work is done,
4. Pay Mr P £300 for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed 
to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman