DRN-2398760
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with MBNA Limiteds response to a breach of contract claim hes made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974).
What happened
Mr P engaged S, a third party, to make a repair to the tailgate window of his car. The window 
bore some scratches, which Mr P wanted to be removed. Mr P paid £174 for the work using 
his MBNA credit card. A few days later Mr P raised a concern over the work. He said the 
glass had been distorted by the repair process.
Mr P didnt get a satisfactory response from S, and contacted MBNA who instigated a 
chargeback process. This resulted in Mr P receiving a refund of the money hed paid. But Mr 
P didnt think the repair had been carried out with due skill and care, and has sought 
damages for a breach of contract by S. Hes claimed for a replacement tailgate at a cost of 
around £4,800, and believes MBNA is liable for this claim under the connected lender liability 
provisions of section 75 of the CCA1974. As evidence in support of that claim, Mr P has 
submitted photographs of the tailgate, an independent expert report and a legal opinion 
obtained through his insurer.
MBNA disputed liability. It accepted that Mr P had the right to bring such a claim, but didnt 
accept his evidence demonstrated breach of contract. MBNA says S refuted any 
wrongdoing, providing three witness statements detailing events and challenging the basis of 
Mr Ps claim. S has said Mr P was aware of  and accepted  the risks involved in carrying 
out the repair and that Mr P instructed S to make further efforts to remove the scratches in 
the knowledge that distortion might occur.
MBNA added that S rejected its chargeback claim but it kept the credit on Mr Ps account as 
a gesture of goodwill. MBNA said it also credited £175 to Mr Ps account to cover the cost of 
the expert report. However, it wasnt willing to meet the cost of Mr Ps damages claim.
Mr P was dissatisfied with MBNAs response and referred his complaint to us. Our 
investigator took the view that while section 75 of the CCA1974 applied to the transaction, 
Mr Ps evidence wasnt enough to demonstrate a breach of contract, in light of the evidence 
received from S that MBNA presented. Mr P didnt accept the investigators conclusions and 
asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps claim against MBNA is founded in section 75 of the CCA1974. One effect of section 
75 is that, where an individual buys goods from a supplier using credit provided under pre-
existing arrangements between the lender and the supplier, that individual can bring a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in the same way he could 
against the supplier. The supplier here was S; MBNA was the lender.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA2015) implies certain terms into contracts for the 
supply of goods or services. One of those implied terms is that where a service is being 
carried out, the service provider will exercise reasonable care and skill. Mr Ps claim is that S 
failed to meet this requirement and that this amounted to a breach of the term implied into 
the contract. That he can bring that claim against MBNA isnt in dispute between the parties.
But having the right to bring a claim is not the same as saying that claim will be successful. 
The respondent is usually entitled to defend a claim brought against it. The question for me 
to address is whether, in light of the available evidence, MBNA is treating Mr P unfairly by 
seeking to defend the claim. That is the substance of Mr Ps complaint to us.
Having considered the arguments put forward by both parties, I dont find MBNA to be acting 
unfairly in taking the position it has. The bank has received and considered Mr Ps claim, 
taking into account its potential liability under section 75 of the CCA1974. It has considered 
the evidence Mr P has provided, along with the evidence obtained from S. I havent seen 
anything that leads me to think MBNA has disregarded Mr Ps evidence. And Im not 
persuaded that evidence is sufficiently conclusive that MBNA should simply have accepted 
his damages claim.
The expert report offers an opinion that is contradicted by Ss evidence and repair process. 
And while the legal opinion expresses a view that a claim S is in breach of contract has legal 
prospects of success, that is by no means a fait accompli. The same opinion acknowledges 
that prospect could change depending on Ss response.
In such circumstances, I think MBNA is entitled to take the action it has. Thats not to say 
theres been no breach, or that Mr P wouldnt be successful if he were to pursue his claim 
via legal proceedings. My view is that the relative positions in this individual case suggest 
MBNA should be entitled to make its legal defence to such a claim rather than be required to 
offer settlement in the context of a complaint about its stance.
My final decision
Because of this, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. For the avoidance 
of any doubt, nothing Ive said here is intended to affect any right he might have in law to 
pursue his breach of contract claim against S and/or MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman