DRN-1825881
The complaint
Ms R complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited avoided her motor insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Ms R took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire through an online comparison site with 
her partner as a named driver. Skyfire asked for information to validate the policy. It was 
concerned that the named driver hadnt been resident in the country for three years whereas 
the application form said hed been resident since birth. Ms R sent in the required 
documents and Skyfire said it would be in touch. 
The named driver was then involved in an incident with another driver and this was reported 
to Skyfire. Two months later, Skyfire said hed answered the question it asked about 
residence incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to cancel the policy and decline the claim. 
Ms R thought this was unfair because if Skyfire had told her earlier that it wouldnt provide 
cover then she would have taken a policy elsewhere. Skyfire paid Ms R £75 compensation 
for its several months delay in validating her policy. Its now seeking to recover its outlay for 
the other drivers damage from her. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Skyfire had 
the required documents a month before the claim. It said human error had led to these not 
been processed. But she thought this had prejudiced Ms Rs position. So she thought Skyfire 
had unfairly avoided the policy and declined the claim. She thought it should pay the claim 
and remove records of the avoidance. 
Skyfire doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
said there had been a delay in the validation and so it offered to remove the avoidance 
marker, and it had paid Ms R £75 compensation. But it declined to pay the claim as this 
wasnt in line with its policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfire thinks Ms R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she completed its application form online. It said Ms R had misrepresented the residence of 
the named driver. Skyfire said she had completed other insurers forms and inputted the 
correct residency. It said this showed she knew the correct answer. 
But it accepted that shed missed the pre-populated box saying that the named driver had 
been resident since birth whereas hed been resident for less than three years. And I agree 
this was a careless misrepresentation. 
Skyfire has provided evidence from its underwriters that it wouldnt have offered cover at all 
if the correct answer had been given. This means Im satisfied Ms Rs misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one under CIDRA and I think Skyfire would normally be entitled to avoid the 
policy and decline the claim. But I dont think this would be a fair outcome in Ms Rs 
circumstances. Ill now explain why I think this. 
Skyfire was aware when Ms R first took out her policy that there may be issues with the 
named drivers UK residency. This was because Ms R had taken out multiple online quotes 
and answered this question differently on some of them. It asked Ms R for documents to 
validate this.  
Ms R sent in these documents and she received a reply from Skyfire that it would be in touch 
if needed. It said she should ignore any cancellation notice. Three weeks later, Ms R 
emailed Skyfire to check that all was well. Ive seen the automatic reply she then received. 
But she said she didnt receive anything further, so I think Ms R reasonably thought her 
cover was in place. A week later, the named driver was involved in an incident in a car park. 
So Skyfire had the required documents to avoid the policy a month before the incident, but it 
didnt act on them due, it says, to human error. I think it should reasonably have processed 
the documents in a timely manner. If it had, then Ms R could have found cover elsewhere 
and she would have been covered for her claim. So I agree with the investigator that Skyfire 
has prejudiced Ms Rs position and unfairly avoided the policy. And I think it should put 
things right.
Putting things right
Skyfire has paid Ms R £75 compensation for its delays. Its also agreed to remove record of 
the avoidance from any databases where its been recorded, and I expect it to carry this out. 
But I dont think this goes far enough in the circumstances as I think it unfairly avoided the 
policy. So I think Skyfire also should pay Ms Rs claim as if she was insured at the time and 
stop any recovery action against her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint. I require 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman