DRN-1930226
The complaint
Ms C complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a mortgage in 2002. 
What happened
Ms C says the policy was mis-sold. She paid £35.04 per month and it covered her for 
accident and sickness only. 
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. Our adjudicator said that as 
Ms C was self-employed, the circumstances when she could make a claim were quite 
limited. Our adjudicator felt that Santander shouldnt have recommended the policy without 
pointing out that it may not meet all of Ms Cs needs. 
Santander didnt agree with our adjudicators view. So this complaint has been passed to me 
to decide how it should be settled. 
Santander added the Schedule of Cover sent to Ms C showed that she was employed and 
not self-employed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Santander has said but Ive still decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
I think Santander presented the policy as an optional product and Ms C was eligible for it, so 
she chose to buy it.
Santander recommended the policy to Ms C, but I dont think it was fully suitable for her. And 
I dont think Santander clearly pointed this out to her. I agree with the adjudicator that theres 
not enough information to show that Santander explained how the policy terms and 
conditions would apply to Ms Cs employment circumstances. And I think its likely that better 
information about the policy terms would have put Ms C off having PPI. 
Heres why I say this. Ms C told us she was self-employed from 2000 to 2016. She said she 
sent invoices to her clients for work done. She says she was never employed in this role, 
only self-employed. Ive taken into account that Santander says its records show that Ms C 
was employed at the time. And Ive thought carefully about everything Santander says. 
Santander relies on a schedule of cover sent to Ms C after shed taken out PPI that shows 
the employment status of Ms C as employed. But on balance, I dont consider that this 
information is sufficient to outweigh what Ms C has said. Based on all the information weve 
been given I think Ms C was probably self-employed. Looking at the policy document Santander has provided, I think it would have been more 
difficult for Ms C to make a claim (as a self-employed person under these policy terms) than 
it would have been for an employee. Thats because Ms C wouldnt have been able to 
receive any payment from her business if she was too ill to work, like outstanding invoices 
and other debts owed to her. In other words, because she was a self-employed person, it 
looks like Ms C would have had to wait until her business had failed completely and was 
making no money at all before making a claim. I think this is an onerous term. So, I think the 
policy terms put her at a disadvantage compared to the position she would have been in as 
an employed person when it came to making a successful claim under the policy.  
Ive taken into account all of Santanders comments. Ive noted that this policy was sold at a 
meeting and Santander says its advisor presented the policy as optional at the time of sale 
and made a recommendation for the cover based on Ms Cs circumstances at the time. But 
as an advised sale, the onus was on Santander to draw Ms Cs attention to features of the 
cover that impacted on Ms Cs particular situation. I cant see enough information to 
persuade me that Santander did enough to make clear to Ms C significant policy details that 
affected her. 
Accident and sickness cover for Ms C was an important part of the protection Ms C thought 
she was buying. So what Santander says doesnt change my conclusion. I think it likely Ms 
C wouldnt have bought the policy if shed understood its limitations in her particular 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
So I am going to uphold this complaint.  I think Ms C has lost out and Santander needs to 
put things right. 
My final decision
Santander should put Ms C in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand the policy is already cancelled so Santander should: 
- Pay Ms C the amount she paid each month for the PPI 
- Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year. 
- If Ms C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander UK Plc to take 
the steps Ive set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman