DRN-4256778
The complaint
Mr Y complains, on behalf of M, about the way Sennocke International Insurance Services 
Limited acted when arranging a building warranty.
Reference to Sennocke includes appointed agents and representatives.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise whats happened.
M was building a property and asked Sennocke to arrange for a building warranty to 
cover it. In order to obtain that warranty, Sennocke required M to facilitate four 
building inspections by a surveyor at certain stages of the build.
The first two inspections were carried out. The surveyors report following the second 
inspection said next visit: roof coverings 70%, TBC by the client. After that, Ms 
builder got in touch with the surveyor to arrange the third inspection.
At the third inspection, the surveyor said theyd been booked too early as the roof 
coverings werent at 70%. They carried out an inspection anyway but said they would 
still need to come back when the roof coverings were at 70%, meaning there would 
need to be an additional inspection  and M would have to pay for it.
Mr Y said the surveyor was rude to his builder and didnt explain when the 
inspections had to take place, so he didnt think M should have to pay for an 
additional inspection. He also questioned why, if the surveyor saw straightaway that 
the roof coverings werent at 70%, they continued with an inspection.
Sennocke said the surveyors report noted when the surveyor would need to inspect 
next. Although it accepted it could have communicated more clearly, it said M would 
have to pay for the additional inspection.
Our investigator thought Sennocke had acted fairly. He thought the information it 
provided was clear about when the inspection needed to be arranged. And he didnt 
think there was any evidence to show the surveyor acted unreasonably.
Mr Y pointed out that Sennockes documentation said all inspections should be 
agreed in writing  but they hadnt been. Our investigator didnt think this had any 
impact on the complaint. Mr Y also said it hadnt requested or agreed to any of the 
inspections. Our investigator said Ms builder had arranged the inspections.
Mr Y asked for an Ombudsman to consider Ms complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sennocke is an insurance intermediary. In this case, its role was to arrange a 
building warranty for M with an insurer. That included a surveyor, working on behalf 
of Sennocke, carrying out inspections during the build. The purpose of these 
inspections is to satisfy the insurer of the quality of the build before it provides cover.
Whilst carrying out this role, Sennocke was required to provide M with information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading. In my view, that includes the information it 
provided about the inspections.
At the outset, Sennocke shared information with M about the process. Amongst other 
things, it said the inspections must be carried out at the correct time and it was Ms 
responsibility to arrange them. It noted a failure to do so may result in additional fees 
being applied. This message was repeated when the surveyor got in touch to arrange 
the inspections. So Im satisfied Sennocke was clear that charges may be applied if 
the inspections werent carried out at the right time.
Mr Y has pointed out that Sennocke also said all inspections must be made by email. 
But, in practice, it was prepared to make arrangements over the phone. I agree that 
seems to be the case. But I dont think that makes a difference here. If both parties 
were prepared to deviate from the strict terms and make arrangements by phone, I 
think they were entitled to do so  as long as Sennocke provided clear information.
Mr Y has also pointed out that the surveyor made arrangements directly with Ms 
builder, despite it being Ms responsibility. Again, I agree that seems to be the case. 
But I think if M didnt agree for its builder to make the arrangements with the 
surveyor, thats a matter between M and its builder.
Following the second inspection, the surveyors report set out when the next 
inspection should take place. It said that was when the build had reached 70% roof 
covering. Im satisfied thats sufficiently clear. I understand the report was shared 
with M and its builder, so they were aware of the specific criteria the surveyor had set 
for the timing of the third inspection.
Later, Ms builder arranged the third inspection. Its not in dispute that the roof 
covering hadnt reached 70% by the time of that inspection. Nonetheless, the 
surveyor carried out an inspection. Sennocke says this is because an abortive visit 
charge would have applied anyway. But two further inspections were still required, so 
M had to pay for an additional inspection.
The terms and conditions say additional charges will be made for additional works, 
including  inspections. So Im satisfied that gives Sennocke the contractual right to 
charge for an additional inspection. The amount it charged is the standard inspection 
cost  there was no penalty or similar added to the cost. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that was reasonable. I dont think there would have been any benefit to M if 
the surveyor had simply walked away  there would still have been a charge.
Mr Y said the surveyor was rude to his builder and/or communicated inappropriately 
during inspections. I have no evidence of what was said between the parties on site. 
And even if I did  and it showed the surveyor was rude to the builder  thats not 
something I can compensate M for.
Overall, Im satisfied Sennocke acted fairly in this matter, so Im not going to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman