DRN-3880157
The complaint
Miss B complains about an HSBC UK Bank Plc data breach when dispatching her debit 
card.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 6 December 2022. This is what I said:
What happened
In the past, Miss B had held a joint HSBC account with her ex-partner. This joint account 
was closed some time ago and Miss B believed there was no associated record. For safety 
reasons it was very important that there was no association with her ex-partner. 
Miss B continued to have accounts with HSBC but in her name only. When her credit and 
debit cards expired in January 2021, Miss B didnt receive replacement cards. Miss B was 
living in another country and she asked for the cards to be sent to her new address. HSBC 
said they didnt send cards abroad so Miss B arranged for them to be sent to her parents so 
they could send them on.
However, an unexplained error occurred in March 2021, which HSBC have attributed to a 
combination of system and human error. The error was on the letter containing the debit 
card which displayed Miss Bs ex-partners name, alongside her name.
This was very traumatic for both Miss B and her parents. Miss B thought there had been a 
data breach and, because of an abusive ex-partner and distressing events in the past, she 
immediately became worried about her safety and finances. Miss B, who had been 
diagnosed and treated for major depressive disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder, 
says this made her extremely anxious and unwell. Miss B says she needed medical 
intervention to help her cope with the distress of the situation and this caused her to be 
hospitalised. Miss B says it also affected her income as she was unable to work. 
Miss B says she contacted HSBC and received an apology but not a satisfactory 
explanation. She also says there were other concerns as HSBC made errors with her 
correspondence and on-line banking and were inundating her with messages and calls 
about arrears on her credit card. Miss B says HSBC only seemed concerned about her 
arrears and that she felt too unwell to deal with the situation and needed to focus on her 
health and treatment. 
In July 2021, she complained to HSBC about what she believed to be a data breach. HSBC 
confirmed that they hadnt sent any information to her ex-partner and offered £30 
compensation. HSBC understood the complaint to have been resolved. 
However, Miss B was dissatisfied due to the error being unexplained and the serious impact 
on her health. She felt HSBC were treating it as a minor error and complained to our service. 
Whilst recognising the stress and frustration caused, our investigator thought HSBCs 
response was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He also explained that its not the 
role of our service to determine whether there has been a breach of the relevant privacy 
laws and gave Miss B details of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Miss B remains dissatisfied as she believes the stress, anxiety, health issues and costs, 
such as security, havent been addressed. Also, the level of compensation is out of kilter with 
other similar cases.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a 
different view to the investigator and I intend to uphold this complaint for the following 
reasons. 
As HSBC accept they made an error, whats left for me to decide is what is fair and 
reasonable to put this right. Having done so, I have come to the view that the compensation 
award should be increased to £500.
Whilst there hasnt been a financial loss here and HSBC say data wasnt shared, there is no 
dispute that an error was made which had a serious impact on Miss B. As HSBC used a 
previously associated name and are confident that this was an isolated incident with no 
financial or personal data shared, I can see why they might think the impact on Miss B is 
low. But in the individual circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that the impact of this 
error is significant. 
I have considered evidence submitted by Miss B on her health and Im satisfied that she has 
characteristics of vulnerability according to the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance on 
this topic. From Miss Bs submissions Im also persuaded that the error would have given 
her a shock, caused her alarm and impacted her condition and health. Its a small mistake by 
HSBC, but one that had a serious impact on Miss B.
Also, I cant see that HSBC understood Miss Bs vulnerability or made efforts to understand 
the impact of their error in order to put in place the timely support she needed. To date, Miss 
B has never been given any real detail around the reason this happened and so she remains 
stressed and anxious and this impacts upon her health condition. 
HSBC has said that this likely happened because of a combination of system and human 
error. I appreciate that this isnt enough detail as Miss B would like, but HSBC says that this 
is as much detail as it can provide and sometimes businesses cant explain why a mistake 
occurred. So, in these circumstances I dont think itd be fair of me to compel HSBC to 
provide further information that it doesnt actually have. But I do think that any award here 
should take account of the impact of this uncertainty and lack of an answer on Miss B.
Miss B also raised a complaint about another product she held with HSBC around the same 
time. That is being dealt with separately by this service, but although HSBCs staff tried to be 
helpful, there was a lack of understanding, support and sensitivity to a vulnerable customer 
who was put in a difficult position as a result of HSBCs error.  
So, having considered all the information from both sides here, I think £500 is an amount 
which more fairly reflects the impact this had and continues to have on Miss B here. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint and tell HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss B £500. 
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before xx 2022. Unless 
that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out above.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the 
deadline.
HSBC accepted the above provisional decision.
Miss B didnt accept the above provisional decision. She feels the compensation amount is 
inadequate and said it doesnt reflect their mistake and the significant impact it has had on 
my health, employment, reputation and personal security. Miss B added that she feels a 
figure of £355,000 is reasonable for my claims against HSBC, as they have acted unlawfully 
and breached many laws and regulations outlined by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
Information Commissioner's Office and Equality Act 2010.
Miss B feels that the above failings caused her stress and emotional trauma and this has 
triggered mental and physical health conditions including a serious disease for which she is 
currently receiving treatment. And, Miss B feels a greater amount of compensation is 
required to cover loss of earnings and medical costs since March 2021. Also, travel costs in 
June 2021 and the cost of bringing the complaint to our service. In addition, costs to cover 
historic complaints since 2010.
Furthermore, Miss B points out that our service didnt signpost her to the ICO.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, before responding to Miss Bs above-mentioned points, Id like to say how sorry I am 
to hear about Miss Bs ill-health. I would also like to explain that the role of the ombudsman 
service is to consider whether financial businesses have treated their customers in a fair and 
reasonable way. This service isnt a court of law so we cant test the validity of evidence or 
make a finding on whether data protection, equality or defamation laws have been broken. 
Thinking about everything again and, in light of Miss Bs comments, I considered if further 
compensation is warranted.
Regarding HSBCs mistake, they are confident that this was an isolated incident with no 
financial or personal data shared. I havent seen any information that data has been shared 
without Miss Bs permission or that security arrangements were required. And, as mentioned 
above, it is for the ICO to investigate and determine if there is a breach. However, Im 
satisfied that it was a mistake with a significant impact and, based on the information on file, 
I think the compensation amount reflected in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable.
Im very sorry to hear about Miss Bs ill-health, discontinuation of work and need to return to 
the UK. However, although I remain satisfied that HSBCs mistake had an impact on Miss B, 
there is insufficient evidence to show that HSBC are directly responsible for the unfortunate 
events and circumstances Miss B describes in her submissions. So, whilst Im sympathetic 
to Miss Bs situation, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask HSBC to pay 
additional compensation to cover Miss Bs health treatment, loss of earnings, travel and 
security costs or reputational damage.Im satisfied that Miss B has characteristics of vulnerability according to the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys guidance on this topic. Also, Im persuaded that HSBCs mistake would 
have given Miss B a shock, caused alarm and impacted upon her condition and health.
Putting things right
So, considering all of the above, including Miss Bs submission time and the fact that there 
are historic complaints and another on-going case, I still think £500 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience Miss B has experienced here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss 
B £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman