DRN-3122263
The complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined to pay him for the loss of sale
value of his kitchen, and his alternative accommodation costs, after he made a home
insurance claim for damage caused by an escape of water.
What happened
Mr Os home was damaged by water in July 2019. A claim was made to Aviva who
appointed a loss adjuster to validate and handle it. The loss adjuster raised concerns
regarding the circumstances of the claim and regarding the documentation provided in
support of the loss. A special investigator was appointed to look into matters further.
During the course of the claim validation, Mr O confirmed to Aviva that prior to the water
damage occurring, he had placed an order for a new kitchen in April 2019 (about three
months before the loss). Mr O also said he was claiming for alternative accommodation (AA)
costs hed incurred (a hotel for two weeks after the damage occurred and then a six-month
tenancy in a property owned by the supplier of his new kitchen) all of which hed paid for in
cash. Aviva said hed need to substantiate that hed incurred the AA cost before it would
consider it.
In February 2020, Aviva spoke to Mrs O to advise that it appeared that no financial loss had
been suffered in respect of the damaged kitchen because a replacement had been
purchased before the loss (and had yet to be installed). During the same call, Mrs O advised
Aviva for the first time that it had been the intention to sell the old kitchen (for £6,800) and
that they had had a buyer lined up when the damage happened. So she said they had
suffered a financial loss.
A few weeks later, Mr O sent Aviva a letter from the supplier of their new kitchen which said
it had been approached by a customer looking for a second-hand kitchen to install in a rental
property. The kitchen supplier stated that it had passed Mr Os contact details to the
customer so he could contact him directly. Aviva made enquiries but wasnt satisfied that
Mr O had been able to show that hed sold his old kitchen to another individual for £6,800
prior to the water damage taking place. So Aviva remained of the view that thered been no
financial loss in relation to the kitchen damage.
Aviva also retained unresolved concerns about other information provided by Mr O in
support of his claim which it said would need to be satisfactorily resolved before it would give
any further consideration to the claim. Aviva put all of its concerns  including those relating
to the sale of the second-hand kitchen  to Mr O in a letter sent at the start of September
2020. Aviva said it was reserving its position regarding the provision of information and
referred to the policy condition that it was Mr Os responsibility to substantiate his loss and
that Aviva could ask him to assist it by providing evidence to help with his claim. Aviva also
referred to the fraud condition contained in the policy terms to which it also reserved its
position. And it said that in order for it to given further consideration to the remaining aspects
of Mr Os claim, it required his formal, written explanatory comments within 21 days upon
receipt of which it reserved the right to conduct further enquires.
Mr O complained to Aviva. He said he was unhappy with the repudiation of the claim for his
old kitchen and the tone of Avivas recent letter. He also said he was unhappy that Aviva
hadnt considered his claim for AA. In January 2021, Mr O sent Aviva some evidence
regarding the AA cost hed incurred but it still didnt think it was enough to prove hed made
the cash payments. Aviva asked Mr O to substantiate the payments. A couple of weeks later
Mr O told Aviva that hed paid for the AA with cash he already had in the house given to him
by family and not by withdrawing it from his bank.
Aviva sent Mr O its final response to his complaint in March 2021. It said it was still of the
view that he hadnt suffered a financial loss in relation to his kitchen. And it said it couldnt
understand why itd taken Mr O a year to explain how hed paid in cash for the AA. It said
unless he could substantiate hed spent his money on AA it was unable to offer any further
assistance.
Unhappy with the outcome of Avivas investigation, Mr O complained to this service. Our
investigator looked into Mr Os complaint and recommended that it was upheld in part. He
said that Aviva hadnt unreasonably declined Mr Os claim for the loss of the sale of his old
kitchen. He said he didnt think Mr O had been able to show that he had arranged to
definitely sell it and that hed lost out as a result of the water damage. He also said he
appreciated that Avivas September 2020 letter wouldve been a difficult one for Mr O to read
but felt that it was factual and that Aviva had to set out the reasons why it was repudiating
the claim for the old kitchen. But in relation to the AA, he said that Mr O had provided
evidence of his hotel stay along with a tenancy agreement, receipt and letter for the six-
month property rental.
Our investigator went on to say that Aviva had said it would pay for AA if it was properly
substantiated and, he felt, Mr O had done so. So he thought Aviva should pay for Mr Os AA
costs. He said the fact hed paid in cash was irrelevant as it was legal tender and Mr O was
entitled to choose to run his financial affairs how he pleased. Our investigator said the
evidence in support of the AA was conclusive so he didnt think Aviva had fairly declined to
pay for it. He recommended Aviva do so now together with interest at this services usual
rate of 8% simple per year.
Mr O replied to say he accepted our investigators findings but Aviva responded and said, it
couldnt respond to his opinion at the moment as the claim itself was still under investigation.
Shortly after it went on to say it couldnt agree to pay for Mr Os AA because it had now
declined the claim in full due to lack of substantiation throughout.
Our investigator responded to say that Aviva had given him the impression that itd accepted
the AA claim in principle and the only dispute around it related to the evidence regarding the
costs incurred. He said it was unfair for Aviva to change its position now that hed
recommended the complaint was upheld. Aviva replied and said that it had it hadnt changed
its position. It said itd advised him upon receipt of his opinion that it couldnt decide about
the AA as it didnt (at that point) know what decision would finally be made in relation to the
claim. Aviva said now itd been decided the claim was being repudiated in its entirety and if it
wasnt accepting the claim then it couldnt consider AA costs.
Mr Os complaint was then passed to me to consider and I issued my first provisional
decision in September 2021. I decided provisionally that this wasnt a complaint that I could
recommend upholding. I made the following provisional findings:
With regret for the disappointment I know this provisional decision will cause Mr O, Im
afraid I cant fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
The essence of the contract of insurance between Mr O and Aviva is set out in the policybooklet (along with the policy schedule and statement of fact etc.). Within the policy booklet
it sets out the terms under which Aviva is willing to provide cover. Under the Buildings
section it says cover is provided for loss of or damage to the buildings caused by water
escaping. But it also says, under the General conditions section, that it is the policyholders
responsibility to prove any loss and that Aviva may ask for copies of receipts, valuations and
other relevant information for help with the claim. Since his complaint has been with this
service, Aviva has taken the decision to decline Mr Os claim in full.
Im not going to comment on the decision Aviva has taken to decline the claim in full
because that isnt what this complaint is about. And, in any event, I dont have any
information about the rest of the claim. The only evidence Ive seen relates to Mr Os two
specific complaints about Avivas decision to decline his claim for the loss of the sale of his
old kitchen and its decision to decline his AA costs.
And as Mr O accepted, in response to our investigators opinion, that Aviva hadnt
unreasonably declined the element of his claim that related to loss of the sale of his old
kitchen, I dont need to comment on that any further here either save to say that I agree that
Mr O hasnt been able to substantiate that particular loss. Ive seen no documentary
evidence from the individual who was purporting to buy the old kitchen for such a substantial
amount of money. Nor have I seen any evidence that Mr Os old kitchen was going to fit the
kitchen in the rental property. I dont think it was unreasonable that Aviva found it unlikely
that the supplier of the new kitchen would turn away custom from someone with a
substantial £6,800 budget and refer them to Mr O to buy an old kitchen from which it could
make no profit. So, on balance, Im satisfied that Aviva didnt unfairly or unreasonably
decline Mr Os claim for the loss of the sale of his old kitchen and I note that, following our
investigators involvement, Mr O has accepted the same.
If Aviva hadnt repudiated Mr Os claim in its entirety at some point after our investigator had
issued his opinion it is likely that I would be agreeing here with the findings he made in
respect of the AA costs Mr O claimed. It is true that Aviva, in its final response letter, had
said that unless Mr O could substantiate that hed spent his money on AA then it was unable
to offer any further assistance. I can see why Mr O, and our investigator, thought that all
Mr O needed to do was provide the necessary substantiation and the AA clam would be
paid. And I can see that good documentary evidence was provided which did just that.
So I think Mr O paid for the hotel and he paid for a short-term tenancy. Ive seen the
evidence and am satisfied it amounts to decent substantiation of his outlay.
But the terms of the insurance contract between Mr O and Aviva make it clear that
reasonable AA costs will only be paid by Aviva if the home is damaged by any cause under
the buildings coverand as a result cannot be lived in. This clause means that the cost of
any AA is only met if theres a valid claim under the buildings section of the policy.
Unfortunately for Mr O, now that Aviva has declined his claim in full, he doesnt have a valid
claim. That means, under the terms of the contract, Aviva is under no contractual obligation
to pay any AA costs he has incurred.
I appreciate that my findings will come as a disappointment to Mr O, and that his complaint
has taken a somewhat unexpected turn, but I cant reasonably make Aviva pay for AA costs
 even where he has substantiated them  unless there is a valid claim under the policy as
well. And, it is now known, there isnt.
I note that after our investigator issued his opinion Aviva mentioned to him that it thought that
Mr Os home wasnt uninhabitable in any event (and so AA wouldnt be covered). This was
the first time the issue of habitability had been raised. Im not going to make a finding on
whether Mr Os home was habitable or not for a number of reasons. Firstly, the issue hadnt
been raised by Aviva with Mr O at any point during the claim. Secondly, I have no evidencebefore me now which would allow me to make a finding on whether the home was habitable
or not; that is not what this complaint has been about. And finally, I dont need to make a
finding about it in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision about this complaint. I say
this because, whether the house was habitable or not is no longer relevant: if theres no valid
buildings claim there can be no AA claim. And if theres no AA claim, whether the house
could be said to be habitable or not isnt relevant.
Ive not seen any communication from Aviva telling Mr O that his claim has been declined in
full. I would be grateful if, when responding to this provisional decision, Aviva could provide
our investigator with a copy of the letter it sent Mr O telling him his entire claim was
repudiated.
So, it follows, for the reasons Ive given above, that I dont intend to uphold Mr Os
complaint.
Mr O replied to our investigator to say that hed never received anything from Aviva to say
that his claim had been declined in full and that the first hed heard about it had been when
hed read my provisional decision. Aviva replied initially to say itd received my provisional
decision and was enclosing a copy of the repudiation letter I had asked it for. The letter that
Aviva sent was a further copy of the letter itd sent Mr O in September 2020 and which had
been referred to by me in my first provisional decision.
I asked our investigator to contact Aviva to ask it to provide the proof Id requested that it had
 as it had claimed  recently repudiated Mr Os claim in full. Our investigator pointed out to
Aviva that so far there was no evidence of any formal/written repudiation from Aviva to Mr O
and that the copy of the September 2020 letter it had sent in response to my first provisional
decision was an old letter, previously provided, previously considered and previously
referred to by me. And he said the letter didnt repudiate the claim  it asked Mr O for
clarification and explanation and placed the claim on hold until that was forthcoming.
Our investigator also pointed out to Aviva that as recently as July 2021 it had told him the
claim was still being investigated but on 3 August 2021 it told him that Mr Os claim had now
been declined in full owing to a lack of substantiation. A few days later it told our investigator
that because the claim was declined in full, it was unable to consider any AA costs. So our
investigator asked Aviva for a copy of the communication itd sent Mr O after it took its
decision on 3 August 2021 to repudiate the claim. He also said that, contrary to what it had
claimed, it now appeared that at no point prior to my provisional decision had Aviva actually
declined Mr Os claim.
Aviva replied to our investigator to say that it had no further information it could give. It then
said that its loss adjuster had advised it that the claim was repudiated and had stated so on
its system. And it said the letter (by which I assume it means the letter of 10 September
2020) was reissued to Mr O on 13 September 2021. Aviva said that the its loss adjuster had
been asking Mr O to prove his loss for some time but he hadnt been able to substantiate it.
Aviva also sent us a screen shot of its system.
The system note from the loss adjuster (dated 13 September 2021) says that Mr O had still
not proved his loss and had been unable to prove hed paid for AA. It also says that prior to
the loss Mr O was expecting to be without a kitchen anyway during the refitting hed
scheduled so he mustve been happy to remain in the property without one whilst this was
carried out or had intended to pay to move out. The loss adjuster said that, either way, Mr O
hadnt suffered a financial loss. The loss adjuster went on to note that Aviva had reported
that Mr O had said the house was uninhabitable because of the water damage. The loss
adjuster commented that he didnt think that he water damage was sufficient to warrant AA,
it was the removal of the kitchen that prompted the need for that.The complaint was then returned to me and I issued a second provisional decision 
recommending that the complaint was upheld. I made the following further findings:
Mr O complained about two things  that Aviva hadnt paid him for the loss of sale value for
his old kitchen and that it hadnt reimbursed him for his outlay for AA. It is now accepted by
all parties that Aviva hasnt unreasonably failed to pay Mr Os for the loss of sale value of the
kitchen. Any comments about this aspect of my complaint were addressed in my first
provisional decision so I see no need to revisit them here.
But the second aspect of Mr Os complaint related to Avivas decision to decline his AA
costs. Again, I refer to my first provisional decision as that sets out what I thought about this
complaint in full. In summary, I said that, unlike our investigator, I was unable to uphold
Mr Os complaint about the AA costs because Aviva  since our investigator had issued his
opinion  had now told us that it had declined Mr Os claim in full. I explained, with reference
to the policy terms, that I couldnt make Aviva pay for any AA costs unless there was a valid
claim under the policy as well. As Aviva had only recently told us itd declined Mr Os claim in
full I asked it to send us evidence about how and when it had told Mr O about its decision.
Its not clear to me why Aviva told us Mr Os claim had been repudiated in full when it hadnt.
Having taken Avivas comment about the claim now being repudiated at face value, I based
my findings around it in my first provisional decision. Those findings now appear to have
been based on false information. If the correct position had been stated then the need for
one, if not two, provisional decisions could have been avoided.
So, I will now look at Mr Os second complaint again on the basis that his claim has not (yet)
been repudiated in full. The reissuing of the September 2020 letter to Mr O as referenced by
the loss adjuster on the claims system does not, in my view, amount to a repudiation. As Ive
said that letter sought clarification and explanation and placed the claim on hold; it did not
repudiate Mr Os claim.
I can only look here at Mr Os complaint up to and including the final response letter Aviva
issued on his complaint in March 2021. In that letter, in respect of AA, Aviva said that unless
Mr O provided further substantiation of the AA costs in support of the cash payments he
made it was unable to offer him further assistance. By the time the final response was
issued, it is my understanding that Mr O had already provided Aviva with a copy of the
tenancy agreement for the property hed rented and the receipts for the cash hed paid the
hotel. I think that evidence is conclusive in respect of how much was paid, and the form the
payment took.
Mr O explained that he paid in cash because he had cash at home  given to him by family.
Aviva has said its not persuaded by the amounts Mr O paid because he paid in cash and
because his account of where the cash came from altered slightly. But that doesnt negate
the proof of payment that Mr O has been able to provide. As I said in my first provisional
decision, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr O incurred the AA costs he claims
from Aviva. Although Avivas position in its final response was to invite further evidence from
Mr O around the cash payments, Im not sure what more evidence he can reasonably be
expected to provide. So I dont think Aviva acted fairly by telling him that he needed to
provide more. And the alternative accommodation costs claimed are relatively modest and
Aviva hasnt cited any concerns about them.
Unfortunately for Mr O, I can only look here at the specific complaint he made to Aviva 
about the kitchen costs and the AA. Im aware that his claim in 2019 was for water damage
and that Mr O said it was extensive. But I cant comment on that here because thats not
what this complaint is about nor have I seen any evidence about the wider claim.As I said in my first provisional decision, I can only make Aviva pay AA costs if there is a
valid claim under the policy as well. It remains unclear to me exactly what the status of
Mr Os claim is; the evidence and comment provided by Aviva in between my two provisional
lacks clarity but as I understand it, it seems that the claim hasnt been declined in full. I know
the loss of sale of the kitchen has been declined but presumably there was other damage to
the property that was covered by the policy. That being the case I think that Aviva should
settle Mr Os AA costs in full. He has provided evidence that he paid them and I dont think it
is fair for Aviva to penalise Mr O for choosing to run his financial affairs by using cash.
Ive thought about the comments the loss adjuster posted on the claims system but I dont
agree with them. Whilst Mr O would indeed have been without a kitchen whilst he had it
refitted its reasonable to think that this would only have been for a very short amount of
time. And just because he was prepared to do without a kitchen during the (short) refit
doesnt mean it is reasonable to expect him to manage without such essential services until
his home was reinstated after the water damage. It is reasonable to assume that water
damage would take much longer to repair, and the home much longer to reinstate, than it
would if a straightforward kitchen replacement was to happen. As the loss adjuster says, it
was indeed the removal of the kitchen that prompted the need for AA and I think, for the
reasons Ive given, Mr O has been able to show that he paid for it.
Putting things right
I think Aviva should settle Mr Os claim for the AA costs he incurred for both the hotel and
the short-term property rental. As Mr O has been out of pocket since paying for the AA,
Aviva should pay him interest on the amounts he paid at this services usual rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date Mr O made the payments to the date Aviva settles my award.
Aviva replied to my second provisional to say it had received my second provisional decision 
and that it was being reviewed. No further comments were received from Aviva before the 
deadline for responding. 
Mr O replied to say that the September 2020 letter had never been reissued to him. And he 
said there had been no problems with the first loss adjuster that had visited and advised him 
what he needed to do. Mr O said he had told them the payment for AA would be paid to him 
once hed sent in the receipts. 
The complaint was returned to me for final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the comments made by Mr O but they havent altered my opinion, as set out 
in my second provisional decision. Aviva hasnt provided any substantive comment in 
response to my second provisional decision. 
So my second provisional findings and second provisional decision remain unchanged. For 
the reasons I gave in my second provisional decision, Im satisfied that this is a complaint 
that should be upheld. 
Putting things right
Aviva should settle Mr Os claim for the AA costs he incurred for both the hotel andthe short-term property rental. As Mr O has been out of pocket since paying for the AA,
Aviva should pay him interest on the amounts he paid at this services usual rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date Mr O made the payments to the date Aviva settles my award.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to take 
the steps Ive set out under the putting things right section above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman