DRN-4337897
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (very) hasnt 
refunded items to her store credit account after she had returned them  which has also 
resulted in the items accruing interest.
What happened
In November 2022, Mrs A say she noticed that a purchase she made for a mobile phone 
hadnt been credited back to her account after she returned it. She says this resulted in her 
getting charged interest. 
After reviewing her statements, she also said that three other purchases she made in 2019 
hadnt been credited back to her account after she returned them. Again, Mrs A felt that she 
had incorrectly been charged interest for these purchases.
Mrs A said that she has made higher repayments to the account as a result of items being 
incorrectly applied to her account. Mrs A has queried what has happened to the repayments 
she has made to her account. As she now feels she has paid off more than the balance that 
was outstanding. 
very responded to Mrs As complaint  across four separate final responses. In summary, it 
explained that a refund for the mobile phone had been applied to her account. It explained 
that two of the purchases made in 2019 had been credited back to the account at the time. 
And it had no record of the third purchase having been returned  and so this had been 
applied to the account along with interest. Because so long had passed since Mrs A raised a 
dispute about that refund, as a gesture of goodwill, it refunded the cost of the item alongside 
the deferred interest. It also paid Mrs A £50. And it incorrectly refunded some other interest 
charges to her account (resulting in Mrs A being better off). 
The Investigator considered what Mrs A had said but they didnt uphold her complaint. They 
felt that the balance on her account didnt include an amount for the mobile phone she says 
she returned. They explained two items from 2019 had been credited back in 2019 and they 
felt it was more than fair of very to have refunded the third payment, alongside the interest it 
had accrued.
Mrs A didnt agree with the Investigator and still felt the balance of her account was 
incorrect. And provided evidence that she felt supported this. She also raised queries about 
other transactions on her account. And she wanted an explanation as to where repayments 
to her account had gone. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Mrs As complaint. 
In reaching my findings, I havent commented on every point of concern Mrs A has raised. I 
dont intend to offend her by not doing so or mean any disrespect in taking this approach. 
This reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead, Ive focussed on the key issues I 
think I need to consider, in deciding on whether very did anything wrong.  
Mrs A confirmed at the start of her complaint that the key issues relating to her complaint are 
the purchases she says have been applied to her account that had not been refunded. And 
that she felt she had paid a higher monthly repayment amount and interest as a result of the 
purchases.
The Investigator has already provided a detailed explanation as to what has happened in 
Mrs As case  so I dont intend to go over whats happened in too much detail here. But I 
will address the key issues below.
Ill start with the amount added to Mrs As account for the mobile phone. I have seen 
evidence provided by very which shows a debit was added to Mrs As account when she 
bought the phone. When Mrs A let very know she was returning it, it applied an advanced 
credit to the account for the amount  it did this before it physically received the phone back. 
Once the phone had been received it credited the account again. And when it noticed that 
two credits had been added to the account, instead of just one, it re-debited the account. 
I accept the information very has provided is confusing, and there are quite a few debits and 
credits relating to the phone, so I can understand why Mrs A has been confused by whats 
happened. Looking at the statements relating to the transaction, I can see there have been a 
total of four debits to the account for the cost of the phone, and there have been a total of 
four credits to the account for the cost of the phone  these transactions happened in 
October and November 2022. 
Based on all of the information Ive seen; the cost of the mobile phone hasnt been included 
in Mrs As outstanding balance. And I havent seen evidence to persuade me this purchase 
has accrued interest which has been added to the account. 
I know Mrs A says that she was told something different during a phone call with very, in that 
interest had been added for the mobile phone. I havent requested a copy of the call 
because Ive seen enough evidence to satisfy me that Mrs A hasnt been charged for a 
phone she didnt keep. I also note that very incorrectly refunded account interest of £311.39 
to Mrs As account  which means she has benefited from a refund of interest that she 
wasnt entitled to, because it wasnt applied in the first instance. 
Ill move onto the purchases Mrs A says were returned in 2019. Ill start by saying that it is 
Mrs As responsibility to regularly review her statements to check that the entries on the 
statement are correct. It doesnt appear she has done this and only raised her concerns with 
returned purchases three years after the transactions happened. Im satisfied that two of the 
purchases were credited back to Mrs As account after they were returned  this is viewable 
on her statements. In relation to the third item, very say it has no record of having received 
this item and given the length of time thats since passed it cant investigate what happened. 
So, it took the decision to refund the purchase, along with the deferred interest it accrued. 
very also confirmed that when it refunded this purchase along with the interest, and a further 
credit, it reduced the balance on Mrs As flexible account to zero. In my view, this is more 
than fair and more than I would have expected very to have done in the circumstances.Finally, Mrs A queries why she has been paying a high monthly repayment when most of the 
items on her account are on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) scheme. I can see Mrs A has 
used her account for a number of purchases  some of which arent on an interest free 
scheme and so have accrued interest. The monthly minimum repayment is required to repay 
these items. The monthly amount increases as the balance and interest increases. Any 
repayments Mrs A makes towards the account will be used to reduce the balance on the 
account.
I note that Mrs A has raised concerns about other transactions on her account. I havent 
considered these as part of this decision. Thats because, as part of the rules this service 
follows, Im required to allow very time to investigate a complaint before this service can 
consider it. If Mrs A wants to make a complaint about the other transactions shes referred 
to, shell need to contact very in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman