DRN-3339831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs L bought a points-based membership from a business, Business A in 
November 2002. The cost of the membership was covered by a loan taken with First 
National Bank (which later because GE Money). The loan was in joint names and set to 
run for 10 years. Both the deposit and the proceeds of the loan werent paid to Business A, 
but to a different business, Business H.
Mr and Mrs L said that when they took out their membership, they were told that they 
could pass their membership onto their children, or if they no longer wanted it, it would 
be purchased back by the resort. They say they were assured there was always a way 
for them to exit the membership should they wish to.
So Mr and Mrs L have said that Business A misrepresented to them at the time of sale as 
they later discovered  that the membership could not be passed on to their children or 
purchased back by the resort, and instead they needed to purchase more points. Mr and 
Mrs L said that had they known what Business A said wasnt right, they would not have 
taken out the membership in the first place.
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs L, using a representative, complained to GE Money. It 
responded to say that it would not be able to look into the complaint. It said that the sale 
took place many years ago, in 2002, so it had limited information and it was not the entity 
that sold the product to Mr and Mrs L. GE Money also explained that as the sale took place 
many years before the complaint, this meant the complaint had been brought too late 
under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted that 
the loan proceeds had been paid to Business H and not Business A, so it didnt think there 
were the right types of agreements in place for the CCA to apply to this complaint.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to 
do anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 CCA had been brought too 
late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They 
also looked at s.140A CCA, but they didnt think that provision applied as the loan 
predated the enactment of that provision.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint had 
been brought in time. So, the complaint was passed to me - an ombudsman - for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the 
matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mr and Mrs L, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its 
not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs L to make a claim under the 
CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. The same agreement is needed for the timeshare contract to be considered 
under s.140A CCA. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this 
case, as the supplier of the timeshare was Business A, but the loan proceeds went to a 
different business, Business H, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Ls 
claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier 
of the service (Business A) and the business that took the payment (Business H). But Ive 
not gone on to make a finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right 
relationships in place for the claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the 
LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs L said that Business A misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of 
the membership agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But 
if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the 
LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should 
make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs L may have to 
bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this 
decision Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr 
and Mrs Ls claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 
1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action 
brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a 
claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of 
action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs L brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs L had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ls case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the membership, 
so in November 2002. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they 
say, on the misrepresentations of Business A. They say, had the misrepresentations not 
been made, they wouldnt have bought the membership. And it was on that day that they 
suffered a loss, as they took out the loan agreement with First National Bank.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in November 2002, so Mr and 
Mrs L had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money 
about their claim until June 2019, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So 
I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs L could have made a claim under s.140A 
CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their credit agreement. 
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act 
sets out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement 
had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in 
respect of that credit agreement.
GE Money has shown that Mr and Mrs Ls agreement was paid off in May 2003.  This 
means Mr and Mrs L are unable to make a claim under s.140A.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim 
was brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr and Mrs L may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, 
as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs L might have 
against the supplier and GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the 
LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not 
persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman