DRN-1936306
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the service they received from Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) and the declination of their curtailment claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M travelled abroad on holiday and during the first few days, Mrs M unfortunately 
tripped and injured herself while out walking. She was attended by a local doctor, and was 
then taken to a public hospital by ambulance. 
The hospital identified a cut to her head and a shoulder fracture. Mrs M was fitted with 
a sling and provided with pain relief medication. She returned to her hotel accommodation 
the same night. And Mr M contacted IPA.
Mrs M has said she was in significant pain after returning to her hotel. And later noticed she 
also appeared to have injured her foot as it was swollen and painful. She said the facilities in 
her hotel room were insufficient due to her injuries and the pain she was in.
Mr M spoke with IPA the next day and explained the pain Mrs M was in and asked to return 
home as soon as possible. IPA asked Mrs M to attend hospital for her foot to be examined 
and a medical report provided. However she declined to do this.
IPA contacted Mr and Mrs M again the following day and said it was going to again ask 
Mrs M to have her foot examined at hospital. However, Mr and Mrs M had already returned 
home, having made their own flight arrangements.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim against their travel insurance policy. IPA agreed to cover the 
medical expenses, but declined the elements of the claim in relation to the curtailment of 
their trip. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to IPA about the service theyd received when Mrs M was injured, 
and the decision not to pay their curtailment expenses.
IPA said it thought its decision had been correct as a curtailment was not deemed to be 
medically necessary. It said any complaint about the standard of treatment Mrs M received 
in hospital abroad would need to be raised directly with the hospital. And said it had wanted 
to arrange another medical assessment of Mrs Ms condition and to provide further 
assistance, but she had declined being examined again and had returned home. 
Unhappy with IPAs response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think IPA had treated 
Mr and Mrs M unfairly. 
IPA didnt make any comments on the investigators view. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with it 
and in summary, made the following points: 
the hospital abroad did not identify further fractures Mrs M had sustained, and the pain 
relief supplied was ineffective; 
the hotel accommodation was unsuitable due to the pain Mrs M was in with her injuries;
IPA was unsupportive in arranging a return to the UK and too slow as Mrs M wanted to 
return as soon as possible; and
Mr and Mrs M expected their insurer to cover all medical costs and repatriation costs. 

Mr and Mrs M asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator that this complaint should not be 
upheld, and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Curtailment claim
Whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, and the distress they would have 
been in due to Mrs Ms accident abroad, IPA was not automatically required to curtail their 
trip and return them to the UK early. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy sets out the cover provided in relation to curtailment. It says it will pay 
up to a set limit for irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs together with 
your proportion only of any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if the trip is 
curtailed before completion due to the bodily injury of a policyholder. It also states the 
following condition:
You must get (at your own expense) a medical certificate from a medical 
practitioner and the prior approval of the Emergency Assistance Service to confirm 
the necessity to return home prior to curtailment of the trip due to death, bodily 
injury, illness, disease or complications of pregnancy.
IPA reviewed the medical information it was provided following Mrs Ms original visit to 
hospital. And it decided curtailment wasnt medically necessary. The medical report showed 
Mrs M had a cut to the head, was fitted with a sling for a shoulder fracture, and prescribed 
pain relief. And she had returned to her hotel accommodation the same night. As there was 
no indication that Mrs Ms condition was critical in nature and couldnt be sufficiently treated 
abroad, I dont think IPAs decision was unreasonable. 
After Mrs M identified swelling and pain in her foot, and Mr M reported this to IPA together 
with concerns over her pain and lack of comfort in the hotel accommodation, IPA asked 
Mrs M to have a further medical assessment. As the foot condition was not originally 
assessed when Mrs M was in hospital, I think its reasonable that IPA asked her to attend 
a hospital for an examination. However, Mrs M declined to have the assessment and she 
and her husband made their own arrangements to return home. So I accept IPA was unable 
to provide them with further assistance.
I dont think IPA was provided sufficient medical evidence showing that a curtailment was 
necessary. And Mr and Mrs M arranged their own return to the UK without approval from 
IPA, as is required by the terms of their policy. Because of this, I dont think IPAs decision to 
decline their claim for curtailment costs was unfair. Delays in handling the claim 
Mrs M sustained her injuries on the evening of 15 January. IPA was provided with the 
treating hospitals medical report the following morning on 16 January 2019. On the same 
day, IPA advised Mr and Mrs M that it didnt think a curtailment was medically necessary. 
And later that day, after it was told about Mrs Ms pain and swelling, it asked her to have 
a further medical assessment of her foot. Mr and Mrs M returned home on a flight they 
arranged for the next day - 17 January 2019. Based on this timeline, I think IPA responded 
as I would expect in these circumstances, and Ive not found it caused any unnecessary 
delays. 
Quality of care provided by the treating hospital
I understand Mr and Mrs M are dissatisfied with the quality of care provided by the treating 
hospital abroad. And I note that when Mrs M was examined in the UK, further fractures were 
identified and a different course of treatment was prescribed for her shoulder fracture. 
However, in requesting Mrs M to have a further medical assessment (at a different hospital) 
after reporting the pain and swelling to her foot, I think IPA acted appropriately. And the 
actions of the original treating hospital abroad are not something I can reasonably hold IPA 
accountable for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And 
I make no award against Inter Partner Assistance SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman