DRN-4299540
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way International General Insurance Company (UK) Ltd (IGIC) 
has handled a claim under his building warranty. 
Any reference to IGIC includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr B owns a new build property for which he has a building warranty  the policy 
covers structural defects in the first ten years. 
In November 2019, Mr B highlighted to IGIC the snagging issues hed tried to 
address with the developer. His claim was initially declined due to many of the issues 
being outside the scope of the policy. 
But when it became apparent the developer wasnt willing to cooperate, IGIC 
appointed a loss adjuster. In February 2021, the loss adjuster detailed which parts of 
the warranty might be operative in respect of the damage to Mr Bs property. 
IGIC subsequently appointed a contractor who surveyed the property in April 2021 
and said the original window installation was not to standard. IGIC agreed to cover 
replacing the windows. A quote was obtained in June, and in October works 
commenced. 
In May 2022, Mr B confirmed the replacement glass had been fitted and the works 
were deemed complete a month later. IGIC has acknowledged there were delays in 
obtaining relevant materials for the window replacement and this was due to ongoing 
supply chain issues experienced across the UK in 2020/2021. 
But in July 2022, Mr B said there were issues with the repairs  which included not 
being able to close doors. Unhappy with the contractors lack of engagement with his 
concerns following the installation and how his claim had been handled, Mr B 
complained to IGIC.  
In its final response dated 17 November 2022, IGIC accepted the claim hadnt been 
progressed as quickly as it ought to and that its contractor had given a poor service 
by not replying to Mr Bs post installation concerns. 
Unhappy, Mr B brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
upheld it  he said IGIC should pay £500 compensation to recognise the impact of 
the delays and poor service on Mr B. 
IGIC accepted the Investigators view, but Mr B doesnt consider the compensation to 
reasonably reflect the difficulties he experienced and so, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached - Ill explain why. But 
before I do, I want to clarify Im only considering events up until the date of IGICs final 
response in November 2022. 
Im aware the claim is ongoing, and that Mr B has concerns about how its been handled 
which post-date the final response, but these would need to be raised with IGIC in the first 
instance  following which this Service may become involved. 
The Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to handle claims 
promptly, fairly and must not unfairly decline a claim. Whats prompt will depend on the 
circumstances - where significant remedial works are required, things will ultimately take 
longer.
IGIC has accepted its claim handling fell short and this caused avoidable delays. And its 
acknowledged that Mr Bs concerns about the installation of the replacement windows and 
doors werent adequately dealt with. So, what I need to decide is whether £500 
compensation  as recommended by our Investigator  reasonably reflects the difficulties Mr 
B experienced because of these shortcomings. 
Im aware that during some of this period, Mr B was in poor health  and I appreciate him 
sharing this information with us. Ive no doubt this was a particularly challenging time for him 
and that this was compounded by the difficulties he experienced in relation to the claim. 
Where significant repairs are required, its reasonable to expect there to be some disruption 
to the policy holders daily life  even if things happen as they should. And so, it wouldnt be 
reasonable to attribute this type of inconvenience to IGIC. Nor would it be fair to hold IGIC 
responsible for any initial stress Mr B incurred when trying to resolve matters with the 
developer and its standard of work - as IGIC isnt responsible for this. But it did have a duty 
to deal with the claim promptly, and from what Ive seen, it didnt fulfil this. 
Due to the impact of Covid-19, its difficult for me to precisely work out which delays were 
attributable to IGICs handling of the claim, and which were attributable to factors outside of 
its control. Whilst our Investigator thought thered been avoidable delays at the start, these 
appear to have coincided with the onset of the pandemic and can therefore, be reasonably 
explained. 
I also must factor in that where surveys and quotes are required  and the parties disagree 
on the scope of the works - things will understandably take longer. It does, however, seem 
unreasonable that it took from October 2021 to May 2022 to replace the windows  even 
accounting for the difficulties in sourcing materials. This, coupled with the contractors poor 
communication after the window installation satisfies me that £500 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct International General Insurance 
Company (UK) Ltd to pay Mr B £500 compensation. International General Insurance Company (UK) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date 
of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.  
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman