DRN-1741584
 
The complaint
Mrs A says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in May 2003. The policy was 
added to Mrs As credit card account when she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because they didnt think Tesco gave Mrs A clear 
enough information about the fact the policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions. 
And he said this wouldve been important to Mrs A because if shed known about the 
exclusions she wouldnt have bought the policy.
Tesco disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As case. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the adjudicator, and for 
much the same reasons.
I dont think Tesco gave Mrs A clear enough information about the policy. I say this because 
the policy didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions. I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs A 
because she suffered from a long-term medical condition, the details of which are known to 
all parties, and had done since she it was first diagnosed in 1994.
As a pre-existing medical condition, this wouldnt have been covered by the policy at the 
time of sale and this shouldve been highlighted to her. And if it had been, I dont think she 
wouldve bought the policy. I think she wouldve seen no value in the policy if she thought 
that the most likely reason for having to claim on it would likely have resulted in her claim 
being turned down. So, I think Mrs A has lost out because of what Tesco did wrong.
Ive taken into account Tescos comments but they dont change my conclusion.
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should put Mrs A in the financial position shed be in now if 
she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already 
and:
 A. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should find out how much Mrs A would owe on her 
credit card if the policy hadnt been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI 
premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also 
remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any 
interest added to those charges. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should then refund 
the difference between what Mrs A owes and what she would have owed.
 
B. If  when Tesco Personal Finance PLC works out what Mrs A would have owed each 
month without PPI  Mrs A paid more than enough to clear her balance, Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs A paid. And it 
should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs A wouldve owed Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
 
C. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should tell Mrs A what its done to work out A and B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Personal Finance PLC to take off tax from this 
interest. Tesco Personal Finance PLC must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs As complaint. And I require Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to pay Mrs A compensation in accordance with the calculation of redress set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman