DRN-3300864
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has not 
refunded monies they paid following a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out two timeshares with the same supplier in May 2004 and October 
2006. Unhappy with their timeshares, in 2018 Mr and Mrs E engaged lawyers to help them 
get out of their agreements. They paid for the legal services upfront by making bank 
transfers out of their joint NatWest account. 
However, Mr and Mrs E said they did not get the legal services they expected from the 
lawyers. So in August 2019 they made a claim to NatWest, alongside another claim made 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) for repayment of the original timeshare costs. 
NatWest said that as the lawyers had been paid using a bank transfer, and not using credit, 
no claim could be made under the CCA. And it said there was nothing further it could do to 
get their money back. Unhappy with NatWests position, Mr and Mrs E brought a complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and agreed that NatWest had fairly 
considered the claim, so they agreed that NatWest did not need to do anything further. Mr 
and Mrs E did not agree and asked for the matter to be considered again by an ombudsman.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E say they were the victims of a scam when they approached lawyers in 2018 to 
help get them out of the timeshares and to recover monies paid. The lawyers were paid by 
bank transfer, not credit, so there is no action that can be brought under the CCA.
I have seen that the lawyers did write to the timeshare provider in 2018, so it appears they 
took some steps to start a claim and recover monies. Further, in September 2018 the 
lawyers said they had successfully terminated the timeshare. Mr and Mrs E say that was not 
the case and in fact their timeshare carried on. They also say that they can no longer contact 
the lawyers, so they have lost the money paid for the legal services.
Mr and Mrs E told NatWest about this in July 2019 and it tried to recover the funds at the 
time, but were unable to do so. Further, NatWest said it was not able to raise a chargeback 
claim as the payment was made by transfer and not using a debit card. NatWest has said 
that the lawyers bank account was closed by July 2019 and no funds remained.
I have no reason to doubt what Mr and Mrs E have said and I think it is likely their lawyers 
did not complete the job they were tasked to do. But in these circumstances, as Mr and 
Mrs E paid for the services by bank transfer, I do not think there is anything more NatWest 
could do to get their money back. The payment made by Mr and Mrs E went to the intended 
recipient and they agreed to the payment, so although I think it is likely something went 
wrong, I do not think it is NatWests responsibility to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman