DRN-1925165
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy because she had a new boiler installed following advice from British 
Gas Insurance Limited (BG) but she doesnt think the new boiler was necessary.
What happened
Mrs B had a Homecare Two policy covering her central heating and boiler. The policy is 
in Mrs Bs name but as Mr B dealt with matters, Ill refer to him throughout.
BG advised Mr B that the policy would no longer cover parts of his central heating unless 
he had a power flush. It gave him a quote for the flush and another quote for a new boiler 
with the cost of the flush significantly reduced. After seeking quotes from other businesses, 
Mr B asked BG to replace his boiler and do the power flush.
Mr B had doubts about whether the power flush was completed at the time and he felt even 
more strongly about that when he started to experience problems with his central heating. 
Mr B complained to BG and it agreed to do another power flush. Mr B says the engineer 
who attended next told him it was unlikely the power flush was completed properly the first 
time because of the time needed to do it  it had taken the engineers just one day. He 
checked for cold spots in the radiators and checked the water, neither of which indicated a 
problem.
The engineer put chemicals in the system and returned a few weeks later to flush the 
system. Mr B says the equipment he used was much bigger than anything the 
previous engineers had used, reinforcing his view that the flush hadnt been done 
before.
The power flush resulted in a small cup of dirt coming out of the system, which the 
engineer said wasnt much at all. Because of that, Mr B thought the flush wasnt needed 
and he had been wrongly influenced to buy a new boiler. He complained to BG.
BG said that it had been advising Mr B for several years that his system needed flushing. 
At an earlier repair appointment, the engineer had removed sludge from the filter and BG 
said thats an indication that the system needed flushing. BG also said that Mr B didnt 
have the boiler replaced until four months after it quoted for the work, so hed had plenty of 
time to think about his options. While BG didnt think it had failed to complete the power 
flush properly, it acknowledged that it hadnt provided the service Mr B couldve expected. 
It paid £439.50 in recognition of the delays dealing with this matter.
Mr B didnt think the payment was enough. He also said that after speaking with the boiler 
manufacturer, he thought BG had misled him. BG said there was reduced availability of 
parts because the boiler was 20 years old, but the manufacturer told Mr B that it still 
supplied parts.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that, on balance, it was likely that 
BG had flushed the system and that its recommendation to install a new boiler was 
reasonable given the age of Mr Bs boiler. As Mr B had taken time to consider the 
installation quote, our investigator didnt think BG had pressured him to buy a new boiler, 
and he thought the payment BG had already made to Mr B was fair for the service delays 
experienced.
Mr B didnt agree. He remained of the view that BG hadnt completed a power flush 
during installation of the boiler and felt he had paid a lot of money for something he didnt 
need.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr B will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I must make it clear that there has been a lot of correspondence about this matter 
between Mr B, BG and our investigator. Both Mr B and BG are aware of the 
circumstances and theres little benefit in referencing each piece of correspondence or 
individual point made. So, while I have looked at all the evidence, I will only refer 
specifically to the key points of dispute.
New boiler
Mr B questions whether it was necessary to have a new boiler. He thinks BG pressured 
him into having one because it said:
it wouldnt be able to complete repairs on his existing boiler, and
his system needed a power flush which wouldnt be as costly if done during the 
boiler installation.
Ive looked at the service records provided by BG. I can see that BG attended to Mr Bs 
boiler on several occasions and that it recommended a power flush. BG gave that advice 
because of the inefficiencies it noted during the servicing. At that point Mr Bs boiler was 14 
years old. Because it carried on working for a further seven years before he had it 
replaced, Mr B thinks BGs advice was incorrect. There are differing views about the life 
expectancy of a boiler, but its commonly reported as around 15 years. That said, the boiler 
becomes less efficient the older it gets. So, based on age alone, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for BG to recommend that Mr B had a new boiler when his was over 20 
years old.
Mr B thinks that by offering the reduced cost power flush and half price boiler, BG 
pressured him into accepting its service. I dont agree. BG provided a quote for the boiler 
and it was a few months before he accepted it and arranged for the work to be done. 
During those months, he obtained two further quotes from other companies on a like for like 
basis. I think that was prudent. For his own reasons, Mr B chose to accept BGs quote. I 
understand that there are benefits in having BG do the work while also having its home 
emergency cover, such as extended guarantees. But I dont think its fair to view that as 
unreasonable pressure to have work done.
Mr B said BG told him it wouldnt be able to repair his boiler any more, which contributed to 
his feeling of being pressured into having a new one installed. Ive looked at the annual 
renewal policy for 2018, which was the last one issued before Mr B got a new boiler. It 
says:
Important Information  parts availabilityOur records indicate that your boiler is  [make and model given]
Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular 
model of boiler a while ago. And whilst they are still making the 
most important parts for your boiler, some other parts are 
becoming difficult to source
At some point in the future we may not be able to fix your boiler 
if it breaks down. However, well do all we can to keep it running 
for as long as possible. [In]  over 99% of the time we are able 
to source any parts needed to fix a boiler
In the unlikely event we cant fix the boiler, you may be able to 
get a refund back dated to when you last had work done, or to 
when you renewed your agreement  whichever is the most 
recent.
Having thought about the message here, I think BG has been clear on its position and 
managed expectations around possible delays should repairs be needed in the future. 
If anything, I think it gives a positive message about sourcing parts by saying it can 
obtain them in 99% of cases. And I think it wouldve been remiss if it hadnt brought the 
limited availability of parts to Mr Bs attention.
So, taking into consideration the age of Mr Bs boiler, the expected life span of a boiler, 
and the availability of parts, I dont think it was unreasonable that BG recommended he 
had a new boiler. I have stressed recommended because I dont think its a fair 
interpretation to say BG forced the decision.
Power flush
Mr B thinks BG didnt complete the power flush during the boiler installation and that it 
wasnt even needed. So he thinks BGs advice to have a flush done was incorrect, causing 
him to spend a significant amount on having a new boiler installed. Mr Bs view is based on 
the results of the reflush which was done differently  using chemicals and a large machine, 
taking much longer overall  yet produced only a small amount of dirt from the system. The 
evidence provided by BG indicates that the power flush was needed, and it was done 
during installation.
BG and Mr B have continued to disagree about this matter. I think the evidence suggests 
that BG did complete the first power flush, but I dont think anything I say here will change 
Mr Bs mind about this. So, Ive thought about what would be reasonable in the 
circumstances if BG hadnt completed the first power flush properly or at all. My role is to try 
to put things right, so if BG hadnt done the first power flush I wouldve asked it to do that 
now. I wouldve also asked BG to compensate Mr B for failing to provide the service paid 
for. As it stands, Mr B agrees that BG has done at least one power flush and it has paid him 
£439.50 in compensation. So whether or not BG did the first power flush, it has already 
done what I wouldve required of it if it hadnt. So I dont think Mr B has lost out here.
I think its more likely than not that the power flush was needed because, over time, sludge 
builds up in the system and can damage the parts. But I dont think that matters. Thats 
because Mr B had the choice to have it done or not. He got quotes from other companies 
and he couldve asked for a second opinion on whether a flush was necessary. It was 
several months before he accepted BGs quote and several years from its first 
recommendation. I think that was enough time for Mr B to consider his options. I 
understand he considered BG to be the expert on this matter, so he relied on its advice. I 
think thats a fair point. But BG is still of the opinion that the power flush was necessary, and I havent seen anything in the evidence to make me doubt its expertise now.
To summarise, BG recommended two options to Mr B  a power flush, or a new half price 
boiler with discounted power flush. He didnt need to do anything, but he chose the second 
option. BG gave Mr B a 50% discount on his boiler and his system was flushed at least 
once
- thats not in dispute. Because BG identified some service delays it paid Mr B £439.50 in 
compensation, which is the other half of the boiler cost. So, the result is that BG has given 
back to him the full cost of his new, hopefully more efficient, boiler. Im satisfied that this is 
a fair outcome and I wont be asking BG to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
Debra Vaughan
 
Ombudsman