DRN-2941172
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society insisted he attend a meeting to discuss his 
investments. He feels he shouldve been able to informally agree to his wife representing 
him. 
 
What happened
Mr K and his wife had arranged to hold a meeting with a Nationwide advisor via Zoom in 
October 2020 to discuss their investments. Mr K says that prior to the meeting his wife had 
been told that he wasnt required to attend for the whole meeting, instead he could confirm 
security details at the start and then leave his wife to discuss matters with the adviser on his 
behalf. 
However, when the meeting started the advisor explained this wouldnt be possible and that 
Mr K was required to attend the whole meeting. He was very unhappy with this and raised 
the matter with the advisors manager, stressing that he shouldve been able to nominate his 
wife as his advocate. 
His concerns were ultimately dealt with as a formal complaint, which Nationwide didnt 
uphold. It acknowledged that Mr K may have been misinformed at the outset but went on to 
confirm that its internal sales policy required customers to be present when investment 
advice was being provided, both for the customers protection and to ensure compliance with 
Financial Conduct Authority regulations.  
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator didnt feel it should be 
upheld. He felt it was reasonable for Nationwide to require a customer to attend a meeting to 
ensure its regulatory responsibilities were met. He noted Mr Ks comments about power of 
attorney but didnt feel they applied to the matter as thered be no such authority in place. 
As Mr K didnt agree, the matters been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mr K has said about the prior arrangement made with Nationwide  that he 
would be able to excuse himself from the meeting once the necessary security details had 
been checked. It seems that his wife spoke with the advisor in advance and there was 
discussion about her taking the lead and doing most of the talking. I can see that there may 
have been a misunderstanding on the part of one or both parties about what that meant in 
practice. Certainly, it appears that Mr K was left with the impression that he would only need 
to attend the start of the meeting.  
But that wasnt the case as Nationwide has a company policy that customers receiving 
investment advice must be present at any meetings. And I think thats a reasonable policy 
broadly for the reasons Nationwide has provided; that it wishes to protect the interests of its 
customers  an objective underpinned by its regulatory responsibilities. 
I appreciate Mr K has no interest in attending meetings of this sort and is content to let his 
wife deal with the investments. And he feels that by imposing its sales policy upon him 
Nationwide is preventing him from making changes to his investments that he feels need to 
be made. 
But here is a solution to the matter, and its one that Mr K has argued for throughout the 
process; that he should be able to appoint his wife as his attorney. Nationwide has confirmed 
that an ordinary power of attorney document would be acceptable to it, but that the 
document would have to be registered with Nationwide and the investment provider prior to 
any meeting being held. This strikes me as a reasonable requirement and in keeping with 
standard industry practice.
As noted, this is a solution that it seems Mr K tried to advance at the time of the meeting and 
in the discussions that followed. But I think by that point the breakdown in communications 
was such that, although power of attorney was discussed, it was never really proposed by 
Nationwide as a practical way forward. 
Mr K has said that a power of attorney could simply have been put in place there and then at 
the start of the meeting as a way of enabling his wife to complete the meeting without him. 
But I dont think its reasonable to have expected the adviser to accept an impromptu 
document that had not been registered with Nationwide in advance.  
Clearly this unfortunate situation couldve been avoided if at the start of the process, when 
the meeting was first arranged, it had been made clear that if Mr K didnt want to attend, he 
would have to put in place power of attorney. Its unfortunate this didnt happen because of 
what appears to have been a misunderstanding. But I dont think I can uphold the complaint 
based solely on that point. 
There is a way forward  Nationwides policy doesnt prevent Mr K from making changes to 
his investments, he just needs to register an ordinary power of attorney with Nationwide, a 
process that hes familiar with as hes confirmed there is similar in place for other family 
members. I recognise that Mr Ks unlikely to be satisfied with this solution, but I think it 
represents a reasonable way of addressing the issue, should Mr K still hold his investments 
with Nationwide and intend to continue doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman