DRN-4309549
The complaint
Mr L and Miss L complain that The Clear Health Group Ltd mis-sold them a private medical 
insurance policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in March 2022, Mr L sought advice from                                  
The Clear Health Group in relation to private medical insurance for him and his daughter, 
Miss L. The Clear Health Group recommended a private medical insurance policy with 
an insurer and Mr L took out the policy. 
I understand that Miss L used the GP service for the problem with her ear but that her 
claim against the policy for a consultation with a specialist was declined by the insurer.  
Mr L cancelled the policy and complained that it was mis-sold to him. 
Mr L says that The Clear Health Group told him that pre-existing conditions would not be 
covered, which was as he expected. But he says that Clear Health Group said that   
Miss Ls long standing ear pain wouldnt be considered a pre-existing condition as there 
was no diagnosis, so it would be covered under the policy. Mr L wants a refund of the 
premium he paid to the insurer. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that                
The Clear Health Group had mis-sold the policy. The investigator said that the adviser  
explained the moratorium underwriting to Mr L multiple times during the sales call. She 
said that Mr L made The Clear Health Group aware of Miss Ls problem in relation to her 
ear, but she didnt think that it had confirmed that the policy would cover treatment for 
that condition. The investigator said that Miss L may use the GP service for her ear 
condition, as members may consult with a GP in relation to any medical condition, pre-
existing or new.  
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he now understood that Miss L could 
use the GP service for the problem with her ear but that the policy didnt cover her for 
referral to a specialist for that problem. Mr L said that The Clear Health Group didnt 
explain that to him. He said that he took out the policy believing that Miss L would 
receive help. Mr L says that The Clear Health Group misled him then provided policy 
documentation to negate its misleading information. He said that he doesnt dispute that 
The Clear Health Group read out the policy terms to him, but it didnt give him important 
information so that he could make an informed choice. 
The investigator considered what Mr L said but didnt change her view. Mr L asked that 
an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The Clear Health Group gave Mr L advice about private medical insurance, so it was 
obliged to make sure that its recommendation was suitable for his and Miss Ls 
demands and needs.
The Clear Health Group recommended a policy which was on a moratorium basis. 
That means that the policy doesnt cover pre-existing medical conditions Mr L or   
Miss L had in the five years before the policy began until they had been a 
policyholder for two years in a row and had a period of two years in a row trouble-free 
from that condition.  
Ive listened to the recordings of the relevant phone call at the point of sale. I dont 
agree with Mr L that The Clear Health Group told him that Miss Ls ear pain wouldnt 
be considered a pre-existing condition as there was no diagnosis, so it would be 
covered under the policy. 
Near the beginning of the conversation, Mr L said that Miss L had an ear problem 
and had pain in her ear. He explained that he and Miss L were dissatisfied with the 
treatment shed had in the NHS. The Clear Health Group outlined what would have 
happened had Miss L been insured at the time. It went on to say that medical 
insurance doesnt cover whats already happened.
Later in the conversation, Mr L sought clarification about how a referral worked and 
gave the example of Miss L being referred to a specialist for her ear pain without 
being seen by a GP in the insurers GP service. I think this is where the 
misunderstanding occurred. Mr L described a set of circumstances in relation to  
Miss Ls problem with her ear. The Clear Health Group said that the GP service 
would   get [Miss L] in front of a specialist. Thats not in fact the case as Miss Ls 
ear pain is a pre-existing condition, as defined by the policy. But I think that           
The Clear Health Group was trying to explain the process of referral in the context of 
the example raised by Mr L. It had already said on more than one occasion that 
medical insurance doesnt cover whats already happened. So, I dont think that what 
The Clear Health Group said amounted to confirmation that the policy would cover a 
referral to a specialist for Miss Ls ear pain. 
I think it would have been better if The Clear Health Group had explained that as 
Miss Ls ear pain is a pre-existing medical condition, she could use the insurers GP 
service but thats the extent of the cover because of the moratorium underwriting. 
But, on balance, given the context of what was said and against the background of 
repeated statements about there being no cover for whats already occurred, I dont 
think that The Clear Health Group misled Mr L in the sales phone call.
The Clear Health Group subsequently sent Mr L its recommendation, which included 
an explanation that the policy doesnt cover conditions where the insured has had 
treatment, advice, symptoms or medication within the last five years. And the insurer 
sent Mr L documentation, including an insurance product information document, 
which said that the policy doesnt cover treatment of medical conditions or symptoms 
present before taking out the policy. So, correct information was available to Mr L 
and Miss L. Considering everything, theres no basis on which I can fairly direct                         
The Clear Health Group to reimburse the premium payments made to the insurer. 
Thats because, based on what Ive seen and heard, on balance, I dont think that 
The Clear Health Group misled Mr L at the point of sale. Even if I reached a different 
conclusion about that, its not clear to me that Mr L and Miss L wouldnt have taken 
out the policy in any event, as it addressed Mr Ls concerns about the difficulties in 
accessing treatment in the NHS for conditions that arent pre-existing.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman