DRN-3052071
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) acted 
irresponsibly when it agreed to give him a loan in 2018.
Background
Mr F applied for a loan with 118 118 Money in October 2018. The loan was for a total of 
£1,000 to be repaid over 18 months at a monthly repayment of just under £91. 
Mr F has said that at the time he borrowed the money he was gambling heavily and couldnt 
afford to take out any more credit. He has said he had multiple payday loans in his name at 
this time and was relying on family and friends to pay his essential bills. Mr F has said that 
he understated his outgoings on his loan application and that if 118 118 Money had run 
sufficient checks it wouldve realised the loan wasnt affordable. 
118 118 Money has said it did run sufficient checks at this time and is satisfied the loan was 
affordable for Mr F. It said that it amended the declared monthly income amount to represent 
Mr Fs actual monthly earnings and when it reviewed his credit file it saw a small number of 
open accounts, all of which were being properly maintained. Therefore, it doesnt agree it 
acted irresponsibly when it provided Mr F with the loan in 2018. 
Mr F disagreed with 118 118 Moneys findings and brought his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into his complaint already. She said that 118 118 Money had run 
the necessary checks and that based on the information available at the time the decision 
was made, it seemed as though the loan was affordable, and Mr F wouldnt have any 
problems repaying. For those reasons she didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Mr F remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint afresh and so 
it has been passed to me for consideration. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im of the same opinion as our investigator and wont be upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment, so Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr F has said that at the same time he applied for the loan he had multiple payday loans 
which shouldve alerted 118 118 Money that he was struggling to manage his finances. 
However, 118 118 Money has provided us with a copy of Mr Fs credit file at the time of 
application. That shows that he only had one open credit card, which was below its limit and 
was being properly managed with no logged arrears. In addition to this while there was an 
overdraft facility registered on Mr Fs bank account at the time of application, he wasnt using 
it. There was also a telecommunications account, likely for a mobile phone, which was also 
up to date and being properly maintained. There was no evidence of any payday so I cant 
say there was anything on Mr Fs credit file when he applied for the loan that wouldve made 
118 118 Money think he might struggle to manage it or that he was already overly committed 
financially. 
In addition to checking the information on his credit file 118 118 Money also asked Mr F to fill 
out an income and expenditure form. When this was checked 118 118 Money amended Mr 
Fs declared income as it had been overestimated. Once this adjustment was made it 
deducted all of Mr Fs declared outgoings against his income and found that he had 
approximately £590 of disposable income per month. As the monthly repayment for the loan 
was less than £91, 118 118 Money decided the loan was affordable for Mr F as he would be 
left with approximately £500 of disposable income once it was repaid each month. 
Mr F has said he understated his outgoings in order to get the loan approved and that if 118 
118 Money had asked to see his bank statements at the time it wouldve refused to give him 
the loan. While I accept Mr Fs testimony that he was gambling at the time of the lending 
hes not provided us with any statements, so Ive been unable to calculate how heavily his 
gambling was impacting him at the time. However, I am mindful that 118 118 Money had no 
legal obligation to request the statements from Mr F. It had checked his credit file, which 
showed no evidence that he was struggling to manage his finances and it had asked him to 
fill out the income and expenditure form which took all the usual rent and utility bills into 
consideration. 
As there was no evidence on the credit file to show that Mr F may have been having 
problems with taking on too much credit or managing his accounts, I cant say 118 118 
Money shouldve asked for copies of his bank statements at this stage. If any concerns had 
been raised in the initial searches then a lender may ask for additional information, such as 
bank statements, before deciding whether or not to approve the lending. But there was no 
evidence of such stress on Mr Fs credit report and he appeared to have more than enough 
disposable income available to comfortably meet the monthly repayments. 
118 118 Money ran all the checks that were required of it before agreeing to give Mr F the 
loan. And those checks came back saying the loan was affordable and sustainable over the 
18-month term. There was nothing on the credit file that suggested any existing financial 
stress or multiple open forms of credit. Therefore, I cant say 118 118 Money acted 
irresponsibly when it provided Mr F with the loan in October 2018, and so I cant uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Madison CF UK 
Limited trading as 118 118 Money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman