DRN-3993993
The complaint
Mrs K complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with an Individual 
Savings Account transfer.
What happened
Mrs K says she opened a Halifax Individual Savings Account (ISA) in October 2022 with a 
view to transferring her existing ISA from a different provider to it. She says there was a 
problem transferring the money and a lack of communication from Halifax. Mrs K would like 
an explanation, the money transferred, and interest paid from when the money ought to have 
been transferred. 
Halifax says the problem was with Mrs Ks existing ISA provider and it correctly asked it to 
send it the money. It says it made about eight attempts to arrange the transfer. Halifax has 
now received the money and backdated the interest to when the transfer ought to have been 
completed by.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought Halifax had fairly backdated interest and didnt provide poor advice 
about the tax status of the account. The investigator recommended Halifax pay £200 
compensation for a failure to follow up the requests to the existing ISA provider.
Halifax accepts that view, but Mrs K doesnt accept it. In summary she says she was given 
incorrect advice during a call to Halifax which may have resulted in her money losing its tax 
status and that the compensation isnt sufficient for what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Halifax should pay £200 compensation.
I have looked carefully at Halifaxs records and accept it ought to have done more to arrange 
the ISA transfer from Mrs Ks existing ISA provider. I can see that Halifax now accepts that 
position and has fairly agreed to pay £200 compensation. I can also see that Halifax has put 
Mrs K back in the position she would have been in if the ISA transfer had been completed in 
around October/ November 2022 and has fairly backdated interest. It follows that I dont 
think Mrs K has suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place.
The key issue for me to consider is the compensation level. I have made clear that I dont 
think Mrs K suffered any financial loss but accept she would have been caused distress and 
inconvenience in calling Halifax, spending some time on a telephone call with it. I appreciate 
Mrs K says she was given incorrect advice which could have resulted in her money losing its 
tax-free ISA status. I have listened to the relevant call, and I dont think incorrect advice was 
given but general information about the account. In any event I have to consider the actual 
impact, rather than what could have happened. And its clear there was no loss of a tax-free 
status.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax has fairly agreed to pay £200 compensation which I think is in 
line with the type and amount of an award we would make in these circumstances. I find that 
amount fair and reasonable and fairly considers the length of time this complaint took to 
resolve. I accept that Halifax ought to have done more to resolve this issue and accept that 
Mrs K was waiting for some time for the money to be transferred.
Putting things right
Halifax should pay the £200 compensation its agreed to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax to pay Mrs K £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman