DRN-4012825
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a Tech and Travel pack in 
January 2017.
Mrs L says she did not agree to these packs and was not notified that her Additions Active 
account was going to be changed to these two packs. 
She is also unhappy that she was not given enough information about the Tech pack to 
know what was and was not covered for under the insurance benefits. She says she was 
told that she would be covered for everything and later found out she was not.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this already and she did not believe that Barclays acted 
incorrectly when these packs were added to Mrs Ls account. 
Mrs L did not agree with this and therefore this complaint was referred to me to issue a 
decision. This decision only relates to the packs added to Mrs Ls account in 2017. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should highlight that these packs were not sold to Mrs L. What actually happened 
was that Mrs L had held an Additions Active packaged account for a number of years. And in 
2017, Barclays decided to change the products it offered and withdrew the Additions Active 
account. So account holders could continue to benefit from the insurance products, Barclays 
replaced the packaged account with various packs. It has referred to this change as a 
migration.
Barclays is entitled to change the types of accounts it offers its customers and to withdraw 
certain accounts. However, when taking these actions, Barclays needs to notify its 
customers and explain the changes clearly.
Barclays has provided copies of two letters it sent to Mrs L  one before it migrated her 
account, and one to confirm it had been migrated. I note that the letters are personally 
addressed to Mrs L at her current address. The first letter, sent in September 2016, gave 
Mrs L information about the upcoming changes that would be happening on her account. 
The second page of the letter gave several options, including opting out of the migration and 
choosing a fee-free account instead. It gave Mrs L the option of calling to make this change, 
or visiting a Barclays branch to do so. 
The second letter was sent in January 2017. It confirmed that Mrs Ls account had been 
changed. And again, on the second page, it highlighted that Mrs L could remove these packs 
if she wished to do so.
So I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Mrs Ls account was changing from an 
Additions Active account to a fee-free current account, with a Tech and Travel pack added. 
And that it highlighted to Mrs L that she could opt out of having these packs if she wished to 
do so.
I cant see that Mrs L contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change, or query it. So I 
cant say that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on the 
account or that it needs to refund the fees Mrs L paid for either packs since they were added 
to her account.
Mrs L has also said that when she took out the packs in branch, she was told that the Tech 
pack would cover everything and she later found out that this was not the case. 
I should reiterate that these packs were not sold to her they were migrated to from a different 
product. So I find it unlikely that she was told in branch that she would be covered for 
everything. I can also see from Barclays records that the full Terms and conditions of the 
Tech pack were sent to her during the migration process which clearly states what is and is 
not covered. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in relation to this.
I understand that Mrs L will be frustrated by this as she clearly feels very strongly about her 
complaint. However, for the reasons above I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong in 
relation to the migration to the packs and I cant look into its handling of her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman