DRN-4381774
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour) gave her
loans without carrying out the correct affordability checks. Mrs B says had it carried out
better checks, Valour wouldve seen multiple late payments and evidence that she was 
clearly overindebted.
What happened
Mrs B was advanced three loans and Ive included a summary of her borrowing below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £800.00 04/01/2021 25/06/2021 12 £133.33
2 £600.00 20/07/2021 25/03/2022 8 £150.00
3 £1,000.00 28/03/2022 27/03/2023 12 £166.66
Following Mrs Bs complaint, Valour wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold the
complaint because it said it had carried out proportionate checks, and those checks showed
the loans were affordable. Unhappy with the response, Mrs B referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mrs B says after she received Valours answer to her complaint, she again applied for and
was granted a fourth loan by Valour without any proper checks being conducted. However,
the adjudicator explained why this loan wouldnt be considered as being a part of this
complaint.
In the adjudicators latest assessment, she thought Valour shouldnt have provided any of
the loans. The adjudicator went through the checks Valour had carried out for each loan -
which included asking Mrs B for details of her income and expenditure, carrying out a credit
search and then discussing the application with Mrs B on a phone call.
Due to the credit checks results as well as the loan term, the adjudicator thought that Valour
should have carried out further checks before granting each loan. And the adjudicator
concluded that if Valour had carried out further checks, it wouldve likely discovered Mrs B
had a number of outstanding loans and was spending significant sums each month on
gambling transactions.
Valour didnt agree with the proposed outcome, in summary it said:
It completed comprehensive affordability assessments taking account of
Mrs Bs income and expenditure details, which it says showed them to be affordable.
Mrs Bs income was validated.
Creditworthiness checks were conducted and then followed up with telephone
conversations  where questions about her spending habits were asked, including
asking questions about her gambling.
Mrs Bs gambling couldnt have been predicted at the time of the application  given 
the checks that were carried out.
The case was then passed to me and I proceeded to issue a provisional decision explaining 
the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part and about loan three 
only. 
Both parties were asked to provide any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any 
event, no later than 4 October 2023. 
Mrs B acknowledged the provisional decision and said she accepted the findings. She also 
said that she would be exploring a complaint about the fourth loan that was granted. 
Valour didnt respond to the provisional decision, but as the deadline for a response has now 
passed, I see no reason not to issue the final decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mrs B could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Valours checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs B. These factors include:
Mrs B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs B. The adjudicator didnt consider
this applied to Mrs Bs complaint and I agree considering there were only three loans.
Valour was required to establish whether Mrs B could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs B was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Bs complaint.Loan 1
Mrs B declared she had a monthly income of £1,480 and Valour says an income verification
check was carried out which it says confirmed Mrs B received at a minimum of that income
for at least the last year. Valour was therefore satisfied that Mrs Bs stated income was likely
to be accurate.
Mrs B was also asked about her monthly expenditure. This included asking about her
expenditure across a number of different areas - such as housekeeping, bills and travel, to
name a few. It also looks like, as part of this expenditure check, Valour used information
obtained from a credit search to look at what Mrs Bs monthly credit commitments were.
Following the expenditure checks, Valour believed Mrs Bs outgoings for this loan were
£1,151.50 per month. This left a minimum disposable monthly income of £328.50 to afford
her loan repayments of no more than £133.33.
Before the loan was approved, Valour says it also carried out a credit search. It is worth
saying here that although Valour carried out a credit search, there isnt a regulatory
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard.
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Valour received may not entirely reflect
the information Mrs B may be able to view in either her downloadable credit report or her
bank statements. There could be a number of reasons for this, such as Valour only asking
for certain pieces of information or recently opened loans not yet appearing in the search
results. But what Valour couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to
the information it received.
Looking at the credit check results; Valour knew that Mrs B had at least two active credit
accounts. One was a credit card that was within its limit of £900. There was no adverse
payment markers  indicating that Mrs B had maintained her payments. Although it does
appear that Mrs B had marginally exceeded her credit limit between June and October 2020.
The other active credit was a current account with an overdraft of £700. At the point the
search was carried out, the report showed she wasnt overdrawn. But historically Mrs B had
made use of the overdraft but there wasnt anything within that usage that ought to have
been an immediate concern for Valour.
Valour was informed about two County Court Judgements (CCJs). These had been
recorded in 2015 and 2016 and so were historic enough for Valour to not have been overly
concerned by them either.
After the credit checks were carried out, Valour also spoke to Mrs B about the information
she had declared as well as what Valour saw in the credit check results. Ive listened to a
copy of this call, and I can hear that details of her expenditure were discussed and confirmed
with Mrs B including that her husband covered some of the bills such as the gas and electric.
Valour was also told about a further credit card that Mrs B had recently opened but wasnt
yet showing on the credit report  Mrs B confirmed she had a balance on that card of about
£35.
And as the information Mrs B told Valour didnt contradict what else it had been told by the
credit reference report, I think it was entitled to rely on what it was told.
The adjudicator upheld this loan due to Valour needing to do further checks due the credit
check results and the term of the loan. But the credit checks, in my view dont show anything
of concern or any flags that ought to have prompted further checks. And I just dont agree
that a loan term of 12 months ought to automatically mean further checks are needed,
especially when Valour completed a comprehensive income and expenditure form and
telephone call with Mrs B which showed the loan to be affordable.Based on the credit check results Valour carried out there was no indication that Mrs B was
either having or likely having financial difficulties  which may have prompted Valour to
consider whether the loan was unsustainable for her. And the evidence that Valour did
collect showed the loan to be affordable.
So, while Mrs Bs bank statements do show lots of other lending and significant amounts of
gambling. Valour didnt know about this. Mrs B hadnt disclosed it and the checks it carried
out didnt indicate this either. And for the reason Ive outlined above, I think the checks it did
do were proportionate. So, I dont think Valour acted unfairly or unreasonably because it
chose not to ask for further information (which mayve shown it evidence of Mrs B gambling)
such as bank statements.
I am therefore intending to conclude that for loan one, Valour carried out proportionate
checks which showed that the loan was affordable for Mrs B. Im therefore not upholding
Mrs B complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
This loan was advanced shortly after loan one had been repaid. But loan one was repaid
much sooner than Valour expected. Mrs B then returned for a smaller capital loan of £600
compared to loan one, which was £800. However, the loan term was smaller at only eight
months which meant the monthly commitment Mrs B was due to make increased slightly.
The same sort of checks were carried out by Valour. This time Mrs B declared an income of
£1,900 per month, which was more in keeping with the income range she declared on the
telephone call for loan one. It was again reasonable for Valour to have relied on the
information it was given.
Expenditure details were requested across the same categories as they were asked for loan
one. This time Mrs Bs outgoings were declared as £1,227.73. Which left disposable monthly
income of around £672 which was more than enough for Valour to believe that Mrs B could
afford the loan repayment of around £150.
A credit search was also carried out. Ive reviewed the results to see what Valour was given
at the time it made its lending decision. The results showed much the same as they had for
loan one, the same credit card (with a £900 limit) and the current account with an overdraft
was also well maintained.
However, in November 2020, Mrs B had taken a loan from another provider (this didnt show
up in the credit check results for loan one) but Valour could see she had to make payments
of £147 per month  which look to have been factored into Mrs Bs monthly expenditure.
Valour also knew that Mrs B hadnt made her contracted payments in either May or June
2021 for this other loan  this resulted in the loan account being in arrears. But by the time
the credit search was carried out the loan was showing as being up to date and the arrears
had been cleared.
Ive listened to the call between Mrs B and the agent. There was confirmation sought as to
the amount per month Mrs B had for her credit commitments but there was no attempt to
establish what had happened that led to Mrs B missing two months worth of payments for
the other loan. And I do think, as part of the application Valour ought to have at least asked
about this.
But I dont think that the missed payments automatically meant Valour had to check
Mrs Bs bank statements. Instead, I think some further questions shouldve been asked to
establish whatd happened. Valour didnt do this, but even if it had made further enquires, I
cant be sure what Mrs B wouldve told it. And in any event, given the other information
Valour had to hand; I doubt that Mrs B wouldve wanted to jeopardise her loan application by
disclosing that she had lots of other loans (that may explain why payments werent made) or
there was some other reason.Considering that before this loan, Mrs B had been indebted for around six months, she was
potentially extending that by a further eight months and her first loan had been repaid without
any obvious difficulties. And there were no significant flags to have given Valour cause for
concern in either the income and expenditure details, the telephone call or the credit search
results.
This means, for much the same reasons as loan one, I am also intending to not uphold loan
two either, because I think Valour carried out proportionate checks which showed the loan to
be affordable.
Loan 3
Loan two was repaid on time and as expected by Valour. So, the repayment history of loans
one and two wouldnt have triggered Valour to automatically think that further checks ought
to have been carried out. But I have kept in mind that this loan was advanced only three
days after loan two was repaid and Mrs B was this time returning to repay the loan over a
year (after already being indebted for more than a year) and she had increased the amount
she was borrowing.
For this loan, Mrs B declared an increased income of £2,500 per month  and this was
discussed on the phone with the agent. Valour said for this loan it did carry out an income
verification check like it did for loan one, and this confirmed Mrs B received at least £1,900
per month for the past year.
As part of its affordability assessment Valour took the lower income figure of £1,900 which
was, in my view a reasonable course of action to have taken, even though Mrs Bs actual
income was greater than this.
Mrs Bs expenditure has been noted as being £1,514 per month. This left, £386 per month in
disposable income to meet the loan repayment of around £167. The loan looked affordable.
The results of Valours credit checks have also been provided; these contained the same
credit facilities as there were for loan two. The loan with a monthly repayment of £147 was
up to date and there hadnt been any further missed payments since loan two was granted.
And Mrs B also had her credit card with a £900 limit  however whilst no adverse payment
markers had been added, she was now over the credit limit on this card  owing the provider
£918.
Given the history of the lending, that her monthly repayments were increasing with each loan
and Valour was also aware by this stage that Ms B was having problems maintaining her
existing credit commitments, as she was over her credit card limit. Ms B had been indebted to Valour 
for just over a year and was now committing to be indebted for a further year. All of these factors 
combined, in my view, ought to have led Valour to carry out more rigorous checks. So, I dont think, 
for this loan it was enough for it to have relied on the information Mrs B provided either on the 
application or the telephone call.
Therefore, I think Valour needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Bs actual financial
position to ensure the loan was affordable and sustainable. This couldve been done in
several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, looking at bank statements,
reviewing Mrs Bs full credit file or obtaining any other documentation Valour felt it may have
needed.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Valour mightve needed to consider about Mrs Bs financial position.
Mrs B has provided copies of her bank statements for the month leading up to the loan being
approved and so I think its entirely reasonable to view these.
I appreciate there was no regulatory requirement for Valour to have viewed the bank
statements. But as Ive said above, this was only one of a number of ways it couldve goneabout verifying Mrs Bs information. In the circumstances, I consider this needed to have
been done in order for a proportionate check to have been conducted.
Had further checks been carried out, before this loan, I think Valour wouldve thought any
further lending was unaffordable for Mrs B. I say this because Mrs Bs bank statements show
she was significantly more indebted than Valours credit search indicated. Indeed, most of
the accounts that Mrs B was servicing at the time didnt appear in the credit check results.
Mrs B had a number of buy now pay later accounts which needed servicing, at least four
home credit accounts, two payday loan account, a credit union account, three catalogue
shopping accounts, a high cost credit loan and at least four active credit cards. Finally, in
March 2022 there are multiple drawdowns from an online revolving credit facility / credit card
provider of nearly £2,000  all funds that would have to be repaid alongside the loan that she
was applying for.
There are also many transfers to another account in Mrs Bs name  Mrs B hasnt provided
statements to this other account so I cant be sure what the money was being used for. But I
can see from earlier on in the lending relationship that Mrs B was spending significant sums
each month gambling. She also told us separately, that she is now receiving help for this 
which I am pleased to hear about, and hope things continue to improve for her. So, on
balance, it is likely that the funds were being moved to another one of her accounts in order
to use for gambling / online betting.
But whether Mrs B was using this money to gamble (or not), I think the complaint about loan
three ought to be upheld given the sheer number of outstanding credit accounts, especially
as there were already a number of high-cost credit facilities outstanding - including payday,
long term loans and home credit loans. A further check of the bank statements wouldve
immediately shown Valour that it wasnt sustainable to advance any further funds to Mrs B at
that point in time.
Ive thought about what Valour has said around the fraud statement Ms B agreed with at the
start of each call. But this loan is being upheld because I dont think Valours checks were
sufficient. It is the case that the relevant lending rules and regulations place the onus on
Valour to ensure that a proportionate check was carried out  which it didnt do. Ive then
gone on to establish what those further checks may have shown it.
Ive already explained why in this case, loans one and two arent upheld. And Ive explained
why that is the case even though Mrs Bs earlier bank statements show similar entries as
they do for loan three. So while I understand the point Valour is making, for loan three, it
didnt do enough before lending and that is why the loan is being upheld, as further checks
wouldve shown it that Mrs B couldnt afford the loan repayments.
Taking everything into account, I dont think a responsible lender wouldve provided loan
three, had proportionate checks been carried out. Because of this, Ive outlined below what
Valour needs to do in order to put things right for Mrs B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has accepted the findings in the provisional decision and Valour hasnt responded. 
Given the response, I see no reason to depart from the findings I previously made, and I still 
think Valour needed to do further checks before it granted loan three. Had it done so, it 
wouldnt have advanced the loan to Mrs B as it wouldve likely discovered the loan was 
unaffordable for her.  
The fourth loan wasnt considered as part of this complaint, and so I leave it up to Mrs B to 
take that matter forward  if that is something she wishes to do. I am upholding Mrs Bs complaint about loan three only, and Ive set out below what Valour 
needs to do in order to put things right for her.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Valour should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent loan three to Mrs B.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending, Mrs B may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. Alternatively, Mrs B may have looked to
borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Mrs B may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new responsible
lender would have been able to lend to Mrs B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs B would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Valours liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Valour shouldnt have given Mrs B loan three. So, to put matters right, Valour should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs B towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs B which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mrs B the total of A and B.
D. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file in relation to loan 
three.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Valour to deduct tax from this interest. Valour should
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs Bs 
complaint in part about loan three only. 
Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk should put things right for Mrs B as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman