DRN-4447946
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) mis-sold a policy and 
incorrectly declined to cover Mrs Es pre-authorised treatment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E have a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA.
Mrs E called BUPA to enquire about moving from a company policy to an individual policy on 
a continuation basis. She answered some medical questions and BUPA offered to cover 
ongoing treatment for a condition (related to a mole) but for a higher premium. Mrs E chose 
to exclude the condition as the premium quoted was too high and it was cheaper to exclude 
the condition. BUPA confirmed any new, unrelated conditions (moles) would be included. 
Mrs E complained to BUPA as she was unhappy that the exclusion, referred to as a special 
condition, was generic. She thinks she was quoted a price for the condition rather than the 
specific mole she had removed. BUPA clarified it would cover any new, unrelated moles and 
it would ask her GP to confirm the symptoms were unrelated to the exclusion on the policy. 
Unhappy, Mrs E referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong.
Mrs E disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The way the special condition is worded excludes the condition in full and so she isnt 
satisfied that any new, unrelated moles will be covered. 
Had BUPA correctly excluded the one mole, the cost of her premium would have 
been cheaper, and she would have chosen to have the condition covered for a 
slightly higher premium.
Her treatment would therefore have been covered under the new, continuation policy. 
But as BUPA incorrectly quoted her a high premium, she chose not to include cover 
for her existing mole and so she has had to pay for this herself.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I have carefully considered everything Mrs E has said in detail. But I will only address 
what I consider to be key to my decision. 
The policy confirms: We only pay Benefits for Treatment you receive while you are 
covered under the policy and we only pay Benefits in accordance with the cover that 
applies to you on the date the Treatment takes place. We do not pay for any 
Treatment, including any Treatment we have pre-authorised, that takes place on or 
after the date your cover ends.
As Mrs E had treatment for the existing condition which had been excluded after the 
end date of the company policy, it wasnt covered under either policy. I think the 
terms are clear so I dont think BUPA did anything wrong by explaining her treatment 
wasnt covered, even if it had been pre-authorised - as the date of treatment is 
relevant. Any treatment after the date the cover ended isnt included.  
When Mrs E called BUPA, BUPA provided two prices; one for a policy which covered 
her ongoing treatment and a price for excluding it. Mrs E opted for the policy which 
excluded her ongoing treatment as it was much cheaper. However, Mrs E thinks 
BUPA provided an incorrect quote excluding all future moles and that is why the 
quote was so expensive. She says had BUPA provided her with the correct quote 
(specifically a price for excluding treatment in relation to the specific mole in 
question), she thinks the premium for including treatment would have been much 
lower than the premium quoted for excluding treatment for all moles relating to the 
condition in general.
I can see why Mrs E feels that BUPA provided incorrect pricing information due to 
confusion on a later call when she was told all moles would be excluded. But this 
misunderstanding was quickly corrected and BUPAs final response letter clearly sets 
out its position that any new, unrelated symptoms of a mole would be covered once 
her GP confirmed the symptoms were unrelated.
I also think Mrs Es understanding of how the premiums are priced is incorrect. BUPA 
doesnt provide a price based on excluding one specific mole. As she had ongoing 
treatment for the mole that had been removed, BUPA priced the premium based on 
its internal system and underwriting criteria for that condition, based on the answers 
Mrs E gave to the health questions. This is referred to as loading. As she would 
have had to answer yes to a question about planned or pending treatment, the 
premium would increase to the price she was quoted. 
BUPA has provided its confidential underwriting information to me to show the price 
she was given wasnt incorrect. I cannot share this with Mrs E. But I can assure her 
that I am satisfied she hasnt been treated differently to other policyholders in a 
similar position to her. BUPA provided Mrs E with a price based on the information 
she provided (cover for including the condition and ongoing treatment). So I dont 
think the price was incorrect or that the policy was mis-sold. 
Mrs E chose to exclude the condition to keep her premiums down. And the price 
given to her was correct at the time. So I wont be asking BUPA to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman