DRN-3145342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages unfairly 
registered a missed payment on their account when they were late with a mortgage 
payment. 
What happened
At the end of March 2020 Mr E was on furlough because of the effects of the Coronavirus 
Pandemic on his work. Although living in one part pf England, Mr and Mrs E were thinking of 
relocating to another part of England and at that time they were both paying a mortgage and 
renting in the area they hoped to relocate to. Mr and Mrs Es mortgage payment was due on 
31 March 2020 and they paid it on 1 April 2020. Heliodor informed the credit reference 
agencies that Mr and Mrs E missed their payment for March 2020. Mr and Mrs E say that it 
was unfair to record this as they were only one day late and this resulted in them having to 
face less attractive mortgage options when looking at a loan for their new property.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld as she wouldnt expect 
a customers credit file to be affected if a payment is made the day after its due and that 
Heliodor should remove the missed payment marker. Heliodor disagreed saying in summary 
that Mr and Mrs E had the whole of March to make this payment and that it was merely 
following the rules that apply to all customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This would not have been a problem had Heliodor not changed its credit reporting process 
when it took over the administration of Mr and Mrs Es account in 2019. At that time it wrote 
to Mr and Mrs E that it was ending the system of reporting on the fifth day of the following 
month - which would have meant Mr and Mrs E had a period of grace before the non-
payment would have been reported allowing them to make the payment and keep the credit 
file clean. I can understand why that period of grace would have been fair. The purpose of 
recording a missed payment is to show that a payment wasnt made for the month. But 
clearly the payment made on 1 April was for the month of March although 12 hours late. I 
believe that the period of grace would have resolved that so that slightly late payments 
werent classed as missed which seems fair. 
Not allowing the period of grace meant that there was potential unfairness created between 
customers whose payment dates came earlier in the month and those with later payment 
dates. If a payment was due earlier in the month and was a day late, it was unreported as 
missed but if it was on the last day and it was a day late it was reported. That seems unfair 
with customers who were one day late with payments being treated differently depending on 
their payment date. Heliodor says that Mr and Mrs E had the whole of March to make the 
payment. But that fails to recognise that payment dates are there because customers will 
only have the income to allow them to pay their mortgage at certain times of the month 
otherwise the same payment date would apply to everyone. So, payment dates differ to be 
fair to customers. It doesnt then seem to be reasonable to allow Mr E and Mrs E a late 
payment date but not give them a short period of grace before reporting the missed payment 
that is effectively given to customers with earlier payment dates.  
Finally, I dont believe that proper recognition was made of Mr and Mrs Es particular 
circumstances. They made the payment where Mr E had been furloughed and might have 
had difficulty raising the payment for March but in fact made the payment although 12 hours 
late. In those difficult circumstances might it not have been fair to extend the reporting 
period?
Im aware that Heliodor have duties in reporting missed payments on accounts to credit 
reference agencies. Thar information has to be fair and accurate. For the reasons set out 
above I dont consider that in Mr and Mrs Es case that it was fair in recording a missed 
payment for March because it was made the next day after the payment day. I agree with 
our investigator that this complaint should be upheld and for Heliodor to record that Mr and 
Mrs E didnt miss their payment in March 2020.
Mr and Mrs E said that Heliodors actions would have impacted on their ability to get a 
suitable mortgage and our investigator asked for evidence of that if they wished to pursue 
that point whist noting that many factors will impact on what mortgage they could obtain. I 
dont see any response to our investigators invitation or her request for further information of 
21 October 2021. So, in this decision I shall make no further order.
Putting things right
Heliodor should amend Mr and Mrs Es credit file to remove the reference to missed 
payments on their accounts in March 2020. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Topaz Finance Limited trading as 
Heliodor Mortgages to amend Mr and Mrs Es credit file as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman