DRN-3756046
The complaint
Mr H, a director of S, complains about how Covea Insurance Plc has dealt with it claims on 
its commercial property insurance policy.  
What happened
S owns a building which is split into flats. S made a subsidence claim on its policy with 
Covea in 2015. Upon investigating the claim Covea thought the damage needed further 
investigation but said some neighbouring trees needed removal. Another issue was also 
discovered with the drains to the property so a separate claim for accidental damage was 
made. 
The damage to the drains was repaired and the subsidence claim continued to be reviewed. 
S didnt think the repair to the drains had been completed correctly so raised this with 
Covea. Upon further investigation another issue with the drains was discovered and S 
thought the problem with the drains was making the cracks to the property worse. When 
looking into this, Covea couldnt identify other issues with the drains but thought the cracks 
were down to routine maintenance. 
S then appointed a loss assessor as it thought the issue with the drains was related to the 
cracks getting worse. It was then discovered that a new issue with the drains had occurred 
which Covea agreed was covered by the policy. In January 2020 it was accepted that the 
ongoing issues with Ss property were due to subsidence and the claim was accepted. 
Unhappy with how long the claims had been taking and how theyd been handled, S 
complained to Covea. 
Covea issued a final response and accepted it hadnt handled the claims as well as it should 
have. Covea accepted that work needed to commence in relation to the subsidence claim 
and also asked S whether it would prefer to appoint its own repairer or retain Coveas 
involvement. Covea also paid S £1,500 for the poor claim handling. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, S brought its complaint here. It said two years after the 
claims had been accepted work still hadnt commenced. It also didnt think the compensation 
from Covea was enough to cover the length of time and inconvenience it had suffered. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She found that while there 
had been considerable delays and poor claim handling by Covea, she thought £1,500 was 
fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience caused. S didnt agree and said it 
wanted to appoint its own repairers to carry out the repairs needed and said that Covea 
should cover the cost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that S has two valid claims or that Covea has accepted them. The crux of 
this complaint appears to be the length of time this has taken and that the repairs still havent 
been completed. I will therefore focus on these two issues in my decision. 
Under industry guidelines Covea is required to deal with claims promptly and fairly. Ive 
therefore looked at whether it has done so here. Covea accepts there has been delays on 
both claims but has also said it isnt responsible for some of the delays. Ive considered the 
timeline these claims have been taking and its clear there are considerable delays and 
failings by Covea, even after the claims had been accepted. 
I say this because while subsidence claims can take some time, I can also see the issues S 
has been claiming for have been ongoing since 2015. The first repair in 2015 was dealt with 
relatively promptly in comparison to the further issue with the drains and the subsidence 
claim. While I agree not all delays are Coveas fault, I do think Covea should have done 
more to proactively move the claims forward rather than leaving them to drag on for years.
While its disappointing this has happened, when looking at the poor claim handling, Im 
satisfied £1,500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the inconvenience S has suffered. I 
say this because S has had the inconvenience of having to chase Covea multiple times and 
not get a response. This in turn has caused delays over a long period of time, which in turn 
has also caused S inconvenience with managing the properties. As Covea has already paid 
£1,500 to S to compensate for these delays, Im not going to tell it to pay any more for the 
delays up until 28 January 2022, when Covea issued its final response. If S is unhappy with 
delays following this, then it would need to raise them separately with Covea. 
In regard to the two claims, Covea has confirmed these are now being settled and are 
waiting on information from S. From looking at how long these claims have taken, and the 
dissatisfaction S has with Covea, I do think Covea could have done more to settle these 
claims quicker. However, Im also aware Covea has said it is waiting information from S to 
allow it to move forward. Ive also noted that S would like to appoint a third party to advise 
and administer the work needed. This is something S would need to raise with Covea as Im 
not able to comment on it in this decision. And, like the delays after 28 January 2022, if S is 
unhappy with Coveas response on how to settle the claims it would need to be raised 
separately. Im therefore not going to tell Covea to do anything else in this decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman