DRN-3302126
The complaint
Mr L complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) concerning a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around October 2015 Mr L was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After a 
visit from a representative of P, Mr L decided to buy the system, and to finance it through a 
15-year fixed-sum loan from Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In January 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ls behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. It said that P had cold-called Mr L, and had made a number of representations about 
the system which had turned out not to be true. And it said it was these misrepresentations 
that had induced Mr L to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was shown as £10,059, but when interest was added the 
real cost was £19,666.80;
Mr L would make significant savings on his electricity bills; and
the system would be self-funding by virtue of the savings on Mr Ls energy bills and 
feed in tariff (FIT) income.
In its final response to the complaint, Shawbrook said it didnt agree that the system had 
been misrepresented to Mr L, or that there was any other reason for the claim to be upheld. 
But it offered to pay him £200 to apologise for the time it had taken to respond to his 
complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, she didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to 
Mr L, and found no reason to uphold the complaint. She acknowledged that Mr L has 
complained that P didnt register the FIT. But she explained that under section 75 of the Act, 
she could only investigate a misrepresentation or breach of contract. So she couldnt hold 
Shawbrook responsible for the fact the Mr L hadnt been receiving the FIT.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. They said:
Mr L relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative, and 
placed little reliance on the documentation because the sales representative was so 
convincing.
In several places, the quote showed the payback year as year 10, which would 
have been far sooner than the end of Mr Ls loan agreement.
Nowhere in the quote did P state that the actual cost of the system to Mr L would be 
more than £17,763.77 (the estimated benefits Mr L would have received by the end 
of the 15-year loan term), or that the total amount payable would be £19,666.80.
The quote shows the estimated profit from the system as £17,834.75. In order for 
profit to be received, the installation cost would have to be covered. This further 
supports that Mr L was told the system would be self-funding.
Similar complaints have been upheld, and it doesnt believe that this case is 
substantially different.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr L paid for the system with a fixed-sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Mr L to claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is relevant because it says that any negotiations between Mr L and P, as the 
supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and the solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive looked at these in detail, and have considered whether they support the 
alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and that its therefore relevant, alongside Mr Ls 
recollection of the sale, when considering if there were any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, 
the total charge for credit, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods.
Mr L says the cost of the system was shown as £10,059. He points out that the figure didnt 
include any interest on the loan. So he considers that it hid the true cost of the system, which 
was £19,666.80.
I accept that the quote makes it clear that the cost of the system was £10,059. This is 
supported by the credit agreement, which shows the total cash price as £10,059. But it then 
goes on to show the total amount payable as £19,666.80.
The quote is also clear that thered be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out in the table 
below. So Im satisfied that the quote and the credit agreement made it clear that although 
the cash price of the system was £10,059, it would cost Mr L more than this, as hed decided 
to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
The quote also makes it clear that the £17,834.75 estimated profit from the system doesnt 
take account of the finance charge.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr L that the system would be self-funding. Mr L says he 
was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-funded by the FIT income 
and savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr L has said.
The System Analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr L could expect 
to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr L could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £437.41.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr L could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity saving is shown as £264.01. Taking into account the optional 
extra which Mr L chose, the combined income and savings figure for year one is shown as 
£793.09. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60, 120 
and 180 months respectively. Ive focused on the table for 180 months, as this is the length 
of the loan that Mr L entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 
180 monthly payments of £107.48. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected 
grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and 
subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £107.48, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr L could expect to receive from the system, by 
way of FIT payments, and the monthly loan repayments that would be due. I accept that the 
table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan repayments. But it does 
clearly show that the overall return Mr L could expect to receive, by way of FIT income and 
any additional savings, would not immediately be enough to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. 
The quote also includes a graph, comparing Mr Ls expected earnings and savings from the 
system with his monthly loan repayments in the first year. I think its immediately clear from 
this that the combined electricity savings and income would at no point in the first year be 
enough to meet the loan repayments. And that was the case even taking into account the 
effect of the optional extra which Mr L chose.
So taking everything into account, I think the quote makes it clear that the system wouldnt 
be self-funding from the start.
I acknowledge that the CMCs told us that Mr L doesnt, in fact, receive the FIT. He says that 
P told him it would register it. P disputes this, and says it emailed Mr L in 2015 and told him 
that it was his responsibility to register the FIT. As our investigator explained, however, 
under section 75 of the Act, we can only hold Shawbrook responsible for a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on Ps part. So Im unable to deal with the part of 
Mr Ls complaint that concerns the fact that the FIT wasnt registered.
However, I do accept that Mr L was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. The quote includes a table headed Estimated performance over 20 years. 
This shows that by year 17 the overall benefits that Mr L could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement.
Im satisfied that P told Mr L that the system would pay for itself by year 17, as supported by 
the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if I were satisfied that this was 
what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would 
amount to a misrepresentation.
Its true that that quote shows the payback time as year 10. But Im satisfied that it makes it 
clear that this is based on the cash purchase of the system. In this case, Mr L decided to pay 
for the system through an interest-bearing loan. So it would take longer for the system to pay 
for itself.
I acknowledge that the CMC continues to question whether the quote document formed a 
central part of the sales process with P. Ive carefully considered the points that the CMCs 
made, along with those made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain 
satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Miss W agreed 
to enter into the contract.
Performance
The quote shows that the system was expected to produce 2,936.64 kWh a year. As the FIT 
wasnt registered, Ive not been able to see how much the system has generated. But Ive 
looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected annual 
increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. Im satisfied that 
Ps methods for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. Ive looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than P predicted at the point of sale. This will have 
affected the potential savings on Mr Ls energy bills. Since actual energy prices have been 
lower than the modelling predicted, the saving achieved through the energy generated by 
the system will have been correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider that it was unreasonable 
for P to use them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr L could expect 
from the system. So, while I appreciate that Mr L hasnt made the return that was estimated 
at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to P using unreasonable 
assumptions when Mr L entered into the contract.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration if he hasnt been receiving FIT payments. But as Ive 
explained above, section 75 of the Act only allows me to consider whether there was a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on Ps part.
Summary
While similar complaints may have been upheld by this service, my role is to determine each 
complaint on its individual circumstances. Having carefully considered the evidence provided 
by all parties in this complaint, Im satisfied that P didnt make any untrue statement of fact 
that induced Mr L to enter into the contract for the system. And Ive found no other reason to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman