DRN-3299193
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited trading as Jaguar 
Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr J was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract 
purchase agreement with Black Horse.
In March 2021 Mr J experienced issues with one of the rear seat belts. He found that it was 
slack and was concerned that it wasnt holding his sons car seat in place safely. Mr J 
contacted the supplying dealer who inspected the car and found that the seatbelt wasnt in 
the guide clip. It re-routed the seatbelt and told Mr J the issue was resolved.
Mr J continued to experience issues with the seatbelt. He returned the car to the supplying 
dealer, but it refused to look at the seatbelt any further. In May 2021 Mr J complained to 
Black Horse. 
Black Horse contacted the supplying dealer. It also looked at the videos provided by Mr J. 
Having done so, it decided not to uphold the complaint. It said there was no evidence that 
there was a fault with the seatbelt which was present at the point of supply.
Mr J remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that there was a fault with the 
seatbelt and asked Black Horse to arrange an independent inspection. Black Horse didnt 
contact Mr J about an inspection. The investigator said that based on the evidence provided 
by Mr J, she didnt think the fault had been successfully repaired and that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. The investigator said that Mr J should be allowed to reject the car.
Black Horse didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods supplied 
must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes 
fitness for purpose, freedom from defects, safety and durability.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put things right. The busines is allowed one attempt at repair. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
An independent inspection can help to determine whether a car is of satisfactory quality. 
This service asked Black Horse whether it would be willing to arrange an independent 
inspection. It said it would, but despite this, no inspection was arranged. So, Ive reached my 
decision based on the available information. 
I can see that the car was inspected by the supplying dealer in March 2021. The invoice 
says that the rear offside seatbelt is slack when retracting. It also says that the seatbelt was 
re-routed in the guide clip to resolve the issue.
Ive reviewed the video evidence provided by Mr J which was taken after the repairs were 
carried out by the supplying dealer. This evidence shows that the seatbelt isnt working 
properly and that the slackness diagnosed by the supplying dealer is still present.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. Ive thought about 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. Because the car was supplied 
brand new, Id expect it to be of a very high standard and free from defects. Mr J has 
explained that he didnt use the rear seatbelt until 2021, because the childs car seat he was 
using prior to that had an integral seatbelt. I think this is a plausible explanation as to why Mr 
J didnt notice the fault sooner.
I dont think a reasonable person would expect to experience a seatbelt fault like this on a 
brand new car after only 15 months. It seems likely that the car wasnt durable, which is an 
aspect of satisfactory quality. Taking everything into consideration, I dont think the car was 
of satisfactory quality. Black Horse must take steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Ive already explained why I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality. A repair has 
already been attempted but Im persuaded by the video evidence provided by Mr J that the 
repair wasnt successful. Under the relevant legislation, Mr J should be allowed to reject the 
car.
Mr J has been able to use the car despite the fault. So, I wont be asking Black Horse to 
refund any monthly payments.
Its clear that the issues with the seatbelt have impacted on Mr Js enjoyment of the car.  It 
has caused him to worry about his sons safety whilst traveling. Hes had the inconvenience 
of having to return the car to the supplying dealer for repairs which were unsuccessful. I 
think its fair to ask Black Horse to compensate Mr J for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Black Horse Limited trading as Jaguar 
Financial Services must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr J
Refund the deposit / part exchange contribution of £6500 plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlementPay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr Js credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman