DRN-2399222
The complaint
Mrs I says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy bought in connection with a mortgage
taken out in 1997. Lloyds cant say for sure when the policy was sold, but it says its likely to
was taken at the same time as the mortgage.
Mrs I rearranged her mortgage in 2006, and took out some additional borrowing. Lloyds says
the PPI policy remained in force at no extra cost.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 16 October 2020 and said I intended to 
uphold it. Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
I decided to uphold Mrs Is complaint because Lloyds recommended the policy to her 
but I didnt think it was suitable. 
Mrs I had given a detailed account of her circumstances when she bought the policy. 
Shed told me that as well as being employed, she also worked on a free-lance basis. 
She had a contract for services with a previous employer, which had started in 1995. 
There was evidence of this in her 1997 mortgage application which said:
Also she does extra contracts which brings in extra income.
So it seemed Mrs I worked partly on a self-employed basis, alongside her employed
occupation.
To make a successful unemployment claim on the policy, the customer had to be:
a) registered as Unemployed with the Department of Employment in the United 
Kingdom
b) actively seeking Employment,
c) not following any gainful occupation,
d) not in receipt of, or entitled to receive, payment in lieu of notice.
I was satisfied that Mrs I worked on a self-employed basis, as well as being 
employed. If shed lost her employed job, I thought her self-employment wouldve 
meant she was unlikely to meet the policys Unemployment requirements. So I 
thought this wouldve made it difficult for her to make a successful unemployment 
claim on the policy.
And for that reason I didnt consider Lloydss recommendation to buy the policy was 
suitable.
Mrs I responded to say that she agreed with my provisional findings.
Lloyds didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Is case.
In the absence of any further representations or evidence from the parties, I see no reason 
to depart from the position set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Mrs I in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Lloyds should:
Pay Mrs I the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what she
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give
Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay compensation to 
Mrs I in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman