DRN-4235653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) dealt with a 
claim they made under their new home warranty.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr and Mrs P bought a new home. It was covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty 
which began in June 2015.
They got in touch with NHBC in July 2022 about a problem with mold, thought to be 
due to a water leak. They were very concerned about it, given it could have had a 
very serious impact on Mr Ps health condition.
NHBC considered the problem under Sections 2 and 3 of the warranty. In summary, 
for a claim to be successful under Section 2, amongst other things the problem 
claimed for must have been reported to the builder within the first two years of the 
policy. In this case, that means prior to July 2017. And for a claim to be successful 
under Section 3, amongst other things the problem must have been caused by the 
builders failure to build specific parts of the home in line with NHBC requirements.
NHBC said neither of these conditions had been met, so the claim was declined 
under both sections of the warranty.
Mr and Mrs P said they had been in contact with the builder about the problem prior 
to July 2017. They said the builder had initially looked the problem but, after a 
change of staff, they didnt continue. Thats what had prompted Mr and Mrs P to get 
in touch with NHBC in 2022.
The builder agreed to carry out work to put things right and thats since been done. 
Mr and Mrs P complained that NHBC had caused delays and that had meant they 
spent more time living with mold. Due to the potentially very serious consequences 
for Mr P, hed moved out of the home during that time.
NHBC said it hadnt caused any delays.
Our investigator said we couldnt consider the way NHBC had handled the claim 
under Section 2. And she was satisfied NHBC fairly declined the claim under Section 
3. She didnt think NHBC had caused any avoidable delays.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be referred to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive explained in a separate decision why I cant consider the way NHBC handled the 
claim under Section 2 of the warranty.
That leaves the way NHBC handled the claim under Section 3 of the warranty for me 
to consider.
For a claim to be successful under Section 3, a number of conditions must be met. 
The key condition here is that damage must have been caused by the builders 
failure to build a specific part of the home to NHBC requirements.
Those parts include, but arent limited to, foundations, walls, roofs and staircases. 
Generally, structurally significant parts of the home. In this case, the problem was 
with the internal plumbing, which led to a water leak and consequential damage.
NHBC said the internal plumbing wasnt included in the specific parts of the home. I 
agree, its not on the list. So NHBC acted fairly when declining the claim.
It appears NHBC first told Mr and Mrs P it had declined the claim in November 2022. 
But the nature of the problem had been clear to NHBC from early August, around 
three months earlier. So I think NHBC could have let Mr and Mrs P much earlier that 
a claim under Section 3 would be unsuccessful.
However, whilst that would have been preferable, Im not persuaded it would likely 
have made a material difference to Mr and Mrs P. They were able to show theyd 
been in touch with the builder about the problem in the timeframe required by Section 
2, so they were able to take that forward with NHBC, regardless of the position under 
Section 3. So even if theyd known sooner about the outcome under Section 3, I dont 
think things would have changed.
I know Mr and Mrs P think NHBC acted too slowly taking the Section 2 claim 
forwards. But for the reasons outlined in the separate decision, Im unable to 
consider that part of their complaint.
Overall that means Im not going to require NHBC to take any action in relation to the 
way it handled the claim under Section 3 of the warranty.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman