DRN-2982951
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited allowed a transaction to be paid from his credit 
card after his card had expired.
What happened
Mr M booked a holiday with a third party company. The total cost for this was £675. Mr M 
paid a part deposit of £30 in March 2020 with the remaining balance due in September 2020. 
Mr M says that as his credit card had expired, the third party company asked him to update 
his card details. As Mr M was unable to go on holiday due to personal reasons, he did not 
update his credit card details on the third party website. 
Mr M says he would have paid the balance of his full deposit of £215.90 but the third party 
processed a payment of the full remaining balance of £645. Mr M says that Vanquis should 
not have authorised this payment to the third party as his card had expired. In a chat with 
Vanquis, Mr M said that he purposely didnt update his card details with the third party so the 
payment wasnt taken. Mr M raised a complaint with Vanquis and asked for them to refund 
the £645 which was paid in September 2020.
Vanquis did not uphold the complaint. They said although the payment was processed using 
his expired card details, it was automatically linked to his new card and approved due to the 
way in which the payment was processed (as a continuous payment) by the third party. 
Vanquis also informed Mr M that although he didnt want the transaction to be approved as 
he was no longer able to utilise the booking, he shouldve contacted the merchant to cancel 
the booking before the final payment was due to be collected. Alternatively, if he was 
unsuccessful in contacting the merchant, he couldve contacted Vanquis to request a 
payment stop on future transactions to the merchant. 
A dispute was also raised regarding the transaction. Vanquis wrote to Mr M and said that 
they were unable to progress this dispute on his behalf as they had confirmed that the 
merchant acted in accordance with the terms and conditions accepted by Mr M at the point 
of sale. The payment was then processed using the details for the booking which he 
provided at the initial booking stage. As no new card information had been supplied, the 
merchant completed the transaction in line with the details on the payment information. As 
the booking was made using a deposit with an outstanding amount, the terms and conditions 
state they will automatically take payment from Mr M using his original payment method. The 
merchant had processed the payment using details on his payment information page.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She 
said on the email that the third party had sent Mr M dated 8 March 2020 it said that Mr M 
had authorised them to automatically take the outstanding balance on the due date from his 
payment card. Our investigator also said that while Vanquis had referred to the term 
continuous payment authority, Vanquis have said that it was processed as a recurring 
transaction. 
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He asked how a customer was 
supposed to know if they were agreeing for a further payment to be made such as a 
continuous payment authority/recurring transaction or him simply storing his credit card 
details as he would do for websites such as online supermarkets. He also said Vanquis had 
ignored the terms and conditions about him must having a valid credit card  but his card 
had expired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ill start off by explaining that Ill only be able to look into the actions of Vanquis here and not 
the actions of the third party company. This is because the complaint has been brought 
against Vanquis here.
So what Ive considered, is whether Vanquis were fair for allowing the payment which the 
third party processed  not Vanquis  to be approved. When the partial deposit was taken 
originally, the third party appeared to set this up as a recurring payment. And although these 
types of payments are usually set up for recurring transactions such as third party 
subscriptions, they can also be set up when a future payment is expected to be paid to a 
company. But because of the way these payments are set up, it is possible for payments to 
be taken from an expired credit card as long as the account is active. And thats what has 
happened here.
This is because Vanquis have explained that the expired card in this case was automatically 
linked to the new card. And although the card stored on the third party website may have 
expired, the account hadnt. So although the third party asked Mr M to update his details on 
the system as he had an expired card, they were still able to take the balance of the holiday 
by processing the payment under the recurring transaction they had set up originally and 
thats why they didnt need to know the new card details, even though they had asked for 
them, to process the payment.
But as Mr M raised a dispute with Vanquis, Ive looked at the actions theyve taken to 
determine the outcome of their investigation. The email dated 8 March 2020 from the third 
party states total balance remaining: 12th September 2020: £645. It also says please note 
that you have authorised us to automatically take the above balances on the due dates 
noted above from your payment card. Underneath this it states please note that the 
balance of your deposit of £215.90 is payable even if you cancel your booking.
I asked Mr M if he had cancelled the booking and he confirmed he had not. If he had 
cancelled the booking before 12 September 2020, which is the date the third party have 
gave him to pay his remaining balance then he would have been required to pay the balance 
of his deposit, which was £215.90. But because he didnt do so, then the third party took the 
remaining balance as they said they were going to do so.
The wording the third party has used on the email shows Mr M has authorised them to 
automatically take the payment. This supports what Vanquis have said regarding 
continuous/recurring payment. So although Mr M has asked how a customer was supposed 
to know if they were agreeing for a further payment to be made such as a continuous 
payment authority/recurring payment or him simply storing his credit card details as he would do for websites such as online supermarkets, I think it was clear from the email the third 
party sent him that they would use this method to take his payment. Mr M had also said that 
he purposely didnt update his card details. So Im persuaded that this shows that hes likely 
to have expected the third party company to attempt to take the payment from his stored 
payment method.
Ive noted the strength of feeling Mr M has regarding that the third party website states in 
their frequently asked questions: if your authorised card expires before your due date we 
will notify you that you will need to provide us with updated card details in order to complete 
your automatic balance payment on the due date. So I can understand why Mr M may have 
been under the impression that the third party wouldnt be able to take the payment from an 
expired card. But this doesnt say that they wont be able to take a payment or attempt to 
take a payment if he doesnt update his details and this is not in their terms and conditions. 
So Ive looked at the third party terms and conditions in relation to this matter. 
The third party terms say "7.8.1 if you authorised us to take payment for these amounts from 
your chosen payment method when you made your Booking, we will automatically take 
payment from you using your original payment method. As previously mentioned, the email 
the third party sent Mr M stated that Mr M had authorised them to take the payment on the 
due date. Mr Ms chosen method was his Vanquis credit card. The wording of the terms and 
conditions says the method of payment as opposed to his original card. So Im not 
persuaded that Vanquis acted unfairly by approving the transaction the third party 
processed. 
The third party terms and conditions (section 10) also say that after you receive your 
Booking Confirmation, you will not be entitled to cancel the Booking Services for a 
particular Booking and obtain a refund as we will already have completed the provision of 
the Booking Services for that Booking. 
So as Mr M didnt cancel the holiday before the due date or inform Vanquis to not authorise 
any future payments to the third party, Vanquis approved the payment as the third party had 
informed Mr M they would take the payment automatically and in their email and this is what 
they did. This was also confirmed in the terms and conditions of the third party company. So 
while I can sympathise with Mr M for the reason he couldnt go on holiday, Im persuaded for 
the reasons Ive already given that Vanquis were fair by authorising the transaction that the 
third party processed. So it follows that I wont be asking Vanquis to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman