DRN-4226136
The complaint
Mr P complains that he wasnt able to access payment information in relation to his credit 
card account with MBNA Ltd.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill just provide an overview of 
key events here. 
Mr P opened a credit card account with MBNA in May 2022. A minimum payment of £211.32 
was due on 14 July 2022. Mr P made a payment of £175 on 15 July 2022.
Mr P called MBNA on 11 August 2022 as he was having difficulty making a payment using 
online banking. The MBNA adviser suggested Mr P delete and then reinstall the banking 
app. Mr P couldnt be transferred to the relevant helpdesk as it was closed for the day. Mr P 
also told MBNA that he hadnt been able to send payments via his bank because MBNAs 
account number had been flagged. He asked to make a payment on his account over the 
phone and was told the lines had closed for the day. Mr P asked to raise a complaint.
The next minimum payment of £206.95 was due on Mr Ps account on 15 August 2022. On 
17 August 2022 Mr P made two payments  one for £36.32 and one for £206.95.
Mr Ps next payment on the account was due on 15 September 2022, and the minimum 
payment due was £200.70 but Mr P didnt make a payment in time. 
MBNA wrote to Mr P on 19 September 2022 and said that he hadnt made his last minimum 
payment by the due date so it was limiting the total amount he could spend on his card. 
Mr P contacted MBNA the following day and said he hadnt received a call back about his 
complaint. He also said hed just made a payment on his account for £150 but didnt know if 
that was the correct amount. The minimum payment due was confirmed as £200.70. Mr P 
made a further payment of £50 on 27 September 2022. Mr P told MBNA that his credit score 
was affected by not being able to access his account and ensure the correct payment was 
made.  
MBNA responded to Mr Ps complaint in October 2022. It acknowledged that Mr P 
experienced difficulties accessing his online banking. MBNA offered Mr P £40 compensation 
and suggested he deregister and reregister for the online service to resolve the problem. 
However, it also said it wasnt able to amend Mr Ps credit file, as he could have called it 
during opening hours to find out how much was due and to make a payment.  
Mr P was unhappy with the response from MBNA and so brought his complaint to this 
Service. He said he hadnt been able to service his account using the mobile phone app 
since opening the account, so he didnt know what the telephone hours were or the minimum 
payment he had to make. Mr P also said he had been very busy working over the summer 
and this made him lose track of dates and days. He said when he contacted MBNA, it didnt 
try to help or offer other options.  
Mr P said he rang MBNA to enquire about his payment and balance, but it refused to take a 
payment from him. Mr P also said his own bank wouldnt transfer money to his MBNA 
account because the sort code wasnt recognised. Mr P said that after making the complaint, 
he began receiving texts from MBNA outlining his balance and minimum payment. Mr P said 
this matter had a negative impact on his credit file.
 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said MBNA agreed he could not access 
his account online and had offered fair compensation. Our Investigator said while not having 
online access would have made it more difficult for Mr P to manage his account, there were 
other methods available to make payments. So he didnt think not having online account 
access prevented Mr P from making the correct payment to his account. 
Mr P did not agree with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA has acknowledged that there were problems with Mr P accessing his credit card 
account online and it has offered him £40 for the inconvenience this caused. I think this is a 
fair offer of compensation in the circumstances. I understand that Mr P continues to have 
problems with accessing his account online, so I want to make it clear that I consider the £40 
compensation to be a fair amount for the inconvenience he experienced up to the point that 
MBNA issued its final response letter in October 2022. The ongoing problems he is 
experiencing are not being addressed in this decision. 
In relation to the remainder of his complaint, MBNA said Mr P could have called it to find out 
what his minimum payment was, when it was due and to make a payment. So MBNA said it 
wouldnt amend his credit file. 
Ive looked at whether MBNA acted fairly when it said it wasnt at fault for Mr P not making 
minimum payments on time and Im satisfied it has acted fairly. Ill explain why I say that. 
Mr P has said he was working away quite a lot during the summer last year, when the late 
payments were made. This meant he wanted to be able to rely on his mobile banking app to 
access and manage his account. So I can understand it must have been inconvenient that 
he wasnt able to manage his account in the way he had hoped. But the issue here is that 
other options for accessing and managing his account were available to him.
As MBNA has said, contact can be made with it by phone if account information is needed. 
Mr P said that he didnt know when MBNAs phone lines were open, and he mentioned that 
other credit card providers offer phone lines that are open 24 hours a day. But I can see that 
MBNAs phone line opening hours are readily available on the internet, and Mr P did call 
MBNA and could have confirmed phone line opening hours. 
MBNA also offer the option of paying by monthly direct debit. So even though Mr P would 
have preferred to access his account information online, Im satisfied there were other 
options available to him to manage his credit card account and make his payments on time.  
Mr P was also unhappy that MBNA began sending payment reminders by text only after he 
made his complaint. I can certainly see how it would be helpful to get reminders about 
amounts owed and payment deadlines, but Mr P has a responsibility to make enquiries to 
get necessary account information. The other ways he could have serviced his account were 
still available to him, with or without these text messages.I understand the reasons why Mr P is keen for the late payments not to be entered on his 
credit file. But MBNA has a responsibility to accurately report how consumers are managing 
credit facilities. So late payments have to be reported to his credit file, and I wont be asking 
MBNA to make any changes here as I dont think its ultimately responsible for the fact 
Mr Ps payments were late. 
Although not the crux of his complaint, Mr P was also unhappy when MBNA restricted the 
amount he could spend on his credit card in September 2022. Ive seen the account terms 
and these allow MBNA to restrict spending if, for instance, its view of a consumers ability to 
pay what is owed on time changes. I think its fair to say that the difficulties Mr P had with 
making the full minimum payments on time could fairly raise concerns about his ability to 
repay what he has borrowed. So I dont think MBNA did anything wrong. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr P, but I am not asking MBNA to take any further action 
here. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman