DRN-4158966
The complaint and what happened
Mr C complains Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse money he lost to an investment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Rather, Ill set out a summary and focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
Mr C was looking to invest into crypto-assets. He came across a business, which Ill call A 
that offered training and tutorials in trading. A also offered a trading club  which Ill call LT 
which I understand Mr C was a member of. Mr C was required to deposit £2,500 but he 
never actually used that for trading. A is regulated in an EU member state to provide 
financial services. Mr C was regularly in contact with a Mr S at A, in relation to the training 
and they built up trust and rapport. 
Aside from this, Mr C also held a crypto currency account with Kraken to buy crypto assets. 
In August and September 2021, Mr C sent a number of payments to Kraken, some of which 
were multiple transactions in one day. 
Neither the deposit of £2,500 or the transactions to Kraken in August and September 2021 
have been disputed. 
In December 2021, Mr S contacted Mr C in a panic explaining that if Mr C didnt purchase a 
package of trading software, he would lose his £2,500 deposit from A. So Mr C sent a 
payment of £213.88 to Crptopayin. He saw his deposit transferred to a new trading platform 
with a business called GFMarkets. He was persuaded to invest more as he was told his 
investment would be matched  he sent over £6,000 via his own Kraken account. Mr C was 
shown his investment matched and successful trades being carried out. He was persuaded 
to make two further payments for over £7,000 over the next few days. Mr C believes hes 
been scammed as when he tried to make a withdrawal, the portal wouldnt work, the website 
went down, and he hasnt been able to contact anyone in relation to his investment. 
Mr C complained to Monzo, but it didnt uphold his complaint. 
The matter was referred to me for review and determination. On 21 April 2023, I issued my 
provisional decision explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I have set out 
what I said below:
Under banking regulations and banking terms and conditions, a bank should execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that liability for 
authorised payments rest with the payer  Mr C  even where they have been tricked into 
making those payments. There is no dispute Mr C authorised the transactions. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to 
protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far is a reasonably possible. If in 
breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alter a 
prudent banker to potential fraud or a financial crime, it might be liable for those losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
However, that duty doesnt extend to protecting customers from poor investment choices. Mr 
C says he was scammed by GF Markets. And the events Mr C describes could be attributed 
to a scam. But Im mindful that Mr C met Mr S through a legitimate investment business. It 
would appear he must have moved on and its not the most typical of career paths to move 
from a legitimate investment business to scamming customers. I also havent been able to 
find any independent evidence to corroborate this particular GF Markets was a scam (there 
are other similarly named businesses). 
Mr Cs representative has provided a web address via Wayback. And this describes the 
business as a Contracts For Difference (CFD) trader. CFDs are legitimate, if notoriously 
high risk, and many people who in invest in CFDs lose most, if not all, of their money. And 
when they do, people often feel theyve been scammed even when they havent been. Given 
the lack of information available, its far from certain Mr C has actually been scammed rather 
than losing his money to a very high-risk investment. 
But even if I accept Mr C has been scammed, and acknowledging this is finely balanced, Im 
not currently persuaded Monzo ought to have intervened in any of the payments made. 
Having looked over the account statements, this was an account Mr C had hardly used prior 
to August 2021. And then when he did, he transferred money in from another account, into 
his Monzo account, for the payments then to go to Kraken. As previously mentioned, that 
included multiple transactions on one day. There was some other minor spending following 
that which appears to have been when Mr C was abroad. 
So by the time Mr C sent a payment on 7 December, for £213.88, to a crypto exchange 
wasnt an unusual or even new activity for Mr C, even if that particular payee was new. The 
pattern of transferring money in beforehand, was also typical account activity for him and the 
amount in question wasnt so large that I think it ought to have caused the bank concern. I 
accept the payment the following day to Kraken was much larger  over £6,000  but that 
sum went to an existing payee. As Mr C had made several transactions to Kraken a few 
months prior, and hadnt disputed them, Im not persuaded the payment meant Monzo ought 
to have been alert to a possible risk of fraud or a scam. 
Mr C then sent a payment of just over £2,000 to a different crypto-exchange, Moonpay. And 
four days later a further £5,000 was sent. So overall, Mr C did send a large sum in the space 
of a week. And that can sometimes be the indicator of potential financial harm, particularly 
when payments are made close together. But in light of Mr C having sent multiple payments 
to the same crypto merchant in the same day before, and them not having been disputed, 
this wasnt unusual for him. So Im not currently minded to find Monzo ought to have 
intervened before allowing the payments to be made. 
I accept Mr C and his representative are unlikely to accept this. So I have gone on to 
consider whether I think an intervention would have stopped him in any event, and I dont 
think it would. 
The relationship Mr C had with Mr S, started at A a regulated financial business. Mr C 
himself has explained to Monzo that hed had regular contact with Mr S for around nine 
months and had trusted him. He was also satisfied his money was safe as it was password 
protected. Having built up a relationship with Mr S, I think any questioning would have 
resulted in Mr C explaining he had been dealing with his broker for some time. It might have 
been come to light that Mr C had been learning how to trade with Mr S through A. That 
wouldnt have likely caused concern given A was and is regulated in an EU member state. 
And should the conversation have moved onto to Mr S then being with GF Markets, I dont 
think it would have been apparent that might have been a scam either  Im unable to find 
anything from then which would have alerted Mr C or Monzo to something untoward going 
on  it doesnt appear on warning lists, and there doesnt even appear to be any negative reviews from that time. I accept that screen sharing software was used, and that can 
sometimes be an indicator for a scam. But Im not persuaded warning about that, in the 
absence of other indicators, would have been enough for Mr C to stop dealing with someone 
he had known for nine months and trusted. 
I accept Mr C lost money, and I understand this has affected his wellbeing. But having 
considered the matter carefully, Im not persuaded Monzo did anything wrong, such that I 
find it should reimburse Mr Cs losses either in part or in full. 
Monzo confirmed receipt of the provisional decision but hasnt provided any further 
comments for my consideration. I have therefore assumed it doesnt have anything further to 
add. 
Both Mr C and his representative have disagreed with my findings. They have both provided 
new website information to support their belief GF Markets was a scam. And they have both 
provided further detailed submissions about whether or not the payment ought to have 
triggered an intervention from Monzo, and why the complaint should be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and his representative have provided a detailed response to my provisional findings. I 
want to reassure them that I have read and considered them in their entirety. I have only set 
their arguments out very briefly above as the majority of the points made are in relation to 
matters I have already considered, and explained my findings for, in my provisional decision 
- such as whether the payment ought to have looked suspicious to Monzo.  I dont consider it 
necessary to set those matters out again, particularly as I havent been persuaded to alter 
my findings. 
However, there were a couple of points I wanted to respond to. Mr C says he has been 
infuriated to read my findings as he has explained time and again that Mr S worked for LT 
not A, and as far as he could tell LT were a legitimate company. 
As set out in in my provisional decision, LT was an investment club that A offered. I havent 
located any evidence they were a separate legal entity. As such they are effectively one and 
the same, so Mr S appearing to work for LT is no different to me saying that Mr C was in 
contact with Mr S at, or through, A. And Mr C is correct, and as also set out in my provisional 
decision, A was and is a legitimate business authorised and regulated in an EU member 
state to provide financial services.  
Both Mr C and his representative have provided new web links which they believe evidence 
GF Markets was a scam. This is in addition to the previous information provided via 
Wayback. And Mr C says he has never invested in CFDs. 
There appears to be some confusion over GF Markets, and I did mention there were other 
businesses with a similar name in my provisional findings. 
The emails Mr C provided of his communication with Mr S show an email address ending 
gfmarkets.com. This is the same web address that the representative provided an archived 
web page for via Wayback. And it is this webpage that describes the business as offering 
CFDs; hence my provisional findings. There is nothing about where the business is licensed 
on that page, and contrary to the representatives further submissions, I didnt mention 
anywhere in my provisional findings that GF Markets was licensed in Cyprus. It appears the representative must have obtained that information from elsewhere. If this wasnt the 
business Mr C was investing with after all, then I fail to understand why this information was 
provided to the service. But given the similarities between the email and the web address, I 
think it most likely was. 
Mr C and his representative have also both provided web links to other information which 
suggests GF Markets was a scam. However, having looked at those they dont appear to be 
for the same GF Markets  one is for gfmarketsllc.com and the other for gfmarkets.io. These 
are both different to the web address referred to above, and the email address for Mr S. And 
it appears they are in a different part of the globe. Given that, it isnt clear these businesses 
are all one and the same, rather than separate, albeit similarly named, entities. 
But in any event, my provisional findings did go further based on an acceptance that Mr C 
was scammed. And they set out why I didnt think Monzo ought to have intervened in any of 
the payments, or if it had, why I didnt think that would have unravelled the scam. Nothing Mr 
C or his representative has said in response has caused me to revise my findings. 
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation Mr C finds himself, I dont find Monzo did 
anything wrong and so I make no award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman