DRN-1371008
The complaint
Mr C has complained that the broker County Insurance Consultants Limited (CIC) shared 
information about his claims history incorrectly to the insurer of his car insurance policy. 
Mr C said the insurer overcharged him by £800 as a result.
What happened
In September 2018 CIC obtained a quote from an insurer for a private car insurance policy 
for Mr C. 
Mr C was previously insured under a commercial (fleet) insurance policy. The commercial 
policy was still in force, but Mr Cs details were removed from the policy. So because a 
customers NCD can only be used under one policy at a time  and because the insurer 
didnt accept commercial NCD  the private car insurance policy quote was based on a zero 
No Claims Discount (NCD).
Mr C told CIC about a claim from 2015 under the commercial insurance policy, which CIC 
told the insurer about. The quote came to £1,122.50. CIC said although Mr Cs NCD was 
zero, the insurer had given a discount due to Mr C being claim free.
Mr C accepted the quote and bought the policy. In November 2018 Mr C contacted CIC. He 
said the claim from 2015 shouldnt have been passed on to the insurer  and the NCD 
accrued under the fleet policy should have been taken into account. He said hed checked a 
comparison website and found that if he didnt declare the costs of the claim and instead 
indicated hed had an accident, the premium he is quoted is considerably less than what he 
paid for this policy. 
CIC told Mr C that his insurer was aware that the claim had been made under the fleet 
policy, but it didnt make a difference. CIC said a claim is recorded on the Central 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database by insurers who deal with claims in the name of the 
person involved in the accident  in this case Mr C. 
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted CIC to provide a refund of £800 as he 
believed this is the price he unfairly paid for his policy. 
Our investigator didnt think CIC had acted unreasonably. It had searched the market for 
appropriate insurance based on Mr Cs history which it correctly passed on. He couldnt 
explain why Mr C had been told that the claim wasnt recorded on CUE. As claims are 
recorded by insurers on CUE against the individual involved in the incident, he didnt think 
CIC had misinformed Mr C. 
Mr C didnt agree. He says the approach insurers take around NCD on commercial and 
private policies is unreasonable and benefits themselves. He doesnt believe we have 
properly considered this. So he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at whether a business has acted reasonably, we consider the relevant law, 
industry practice and what the policy says. 
As a broker, CIC researched the market to find the best deal for Mr C in his circumstances. 
And it is right that CIC passed on information about Mr Cs claims history to the insurer. Its 
for each insurer to decide what risk its prepared to cover. This can vary. And its why, when 
we look for quotes on comparison websites, the price can be so different based on the same 
details. 
Had the broker not passed on the claims history it was aware of to an insurer, there was a 
risk that Mr Cs policy might be cancelled due to misrepresentation. There would also have 
been a risk that any claim made wouldnt be covered. 
It isnt unusual for an insurer not to accept NCD history from a commercial policy to a private 
insurance policy. And its certainly industry standard that an NCD can only be used on one 
policy at a time. 
Mr C told us that he left the partnership that the fleet policy was held for. But the fleet policy 
remained in force. Therefore the NCD remained under that policy and so CIC correctly 
based its quotes for private insurance on zero NCD for Mr C.
I also dont think that the information CIC gave Mr C in relation to CUE was wrong. Mr C said 
he was involved in the incident in 2015 and the third party claim costs were met by the fleet 
policy insurer. I dont know why Mr C was told the claim isnt registered against his record on 
CUE. Thats not for us  or CIC  to decide. The insurer of Mr Cs private policy told CIC as it 
was aware of the claim it wouldnt recalculate the premium assuming it didnt happen. 
CIC provided a quote for Mr C and explained the basis for that quote. So I dont think CIC 
did anything wrong here. It was up to Mr C to decide to accept it or look for alternative cover 
elsewhere. Mr C accepted the quote and bought the policy.
I understand Mr C will be disappointed. But this means Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman