DRN-2587821
The complaint
Mr C complains that Origen Financial Services Limited provided a poor service which 
delayed the transfer of his occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP), delaying access to his tax-free cash (TFC) lump sum. 
What happened
Origen were appointed to act as Mr Cs independent Financial Adviser (IFA) by his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) in June 2018. Mr C was 54 and was considering 
making use of the pension freedoms in December 2018 when he would be 55.
Mr C had a conversation with an IFA from Origen on the phone in September 2018. On 
10 October 2018 Origen sent Mr C their analysis of his pension transfer, and on 
18 October 2018 Mr C emailed Origen to say that hed read their report and asked for an 
application to proceed. Mr C was sent the application form which was completed and 
returned by recorded first class post on 27 October 2018 and received by Origen on 
29 October 2018.
Origen sent the transfer application to Mr Cs OPS on 30 October 2018 and set up a new 
SIPP to receive the transferred funds.
The transfer of funds from Mr Cs ceding pension scheme to the SIPP happened on 
28 January 2019, and Mr C received the tax-free cash (TFC) he wanted from his pension on 
11 February 2019. Mr C complained to Origen that they caused his transfer to be delayed, 
causing him to use an alternative pension fund to cover costs hed planned to meet with this 
TFC if hed received it sooner. 
Origen said they processed the application of Mr Cs application in a reasonable timeframe. 
They explained that theyd sent Mr Cs application to proceed with his transfer the day after 
they received it. Origen pointed out that the transfer was delayed by the ceding scheme. The 
administrators of Mr Cs OPS suspended pension transfers and didnt lift the suspension 
until 14 December 2018. Origen said they couldnt be held accountable for that.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Origens response and asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our investigator considered the circumstances and upheld Mr Cs complaint in part. He 
explained that he thought the fact that Mr Cs OPS suspended transfers until 
14 December 2018, and then couldnt locate documentation that theyd been sent until 
20 December 2018 delayed the transfer. And he didnt think these things were Origens fault. 
Our investigator did think that the delay in Mr C receiving his TFC after the transfer had 
happened was due to Origens mistake. He suggested that Origen should reimburse Mr C 
fees incurred in having a larger investment in his SIPP and pay £150 for the trouble and 
upset Mr C was caused.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He didnt accept that the suggested 
compensation addressed the fact that hed had to surrender an alternative pension when he 
couldnt access his TFC from the pension transfer when expected. Nor that it fairly 
recognised the level of stress hed experienced throughout Christmas 2018 and his 55th 
birthday.
Origen responded to our investigators view to say that they disagreed with the outcome. 
They stressed that they didnt think they were responsible for the fees that came out of 
Mr Cs SIPP which delayed the payment of his TFC.
As neither party accepted our investigators view I considered the circumstances and issued 
a provisional decision letting both sides know my thoughts, giving them the opportunity to 
comment or provide further evidence.
In my provisional decision I said:
The main cause of Mr Cs complaint is the time it took to process his transfer from start to 
finish. Origen provided Mr C with advice on transferring from an OPS, with valuable 
guaranteed benefits, to a SIPP where the benefits hed receive would depend on the 
performance of his investments. This area of financial advice is highly regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Its a specialised and complex area of financial advice 
and Origen needed to produce a transfer analysis report to compare the benefits Mr C was 
giving up against the potential benefits he may get by transferring.
Correspondence indicates that Mr C was aware that it would take around three weeks for 
Origen to complete the necessary analysis to be able to advise Mr C on the suitability of his 
transfer. And Ive seen that Mr C received his suitability report on 10 October 2018 - 17 
working days from his phone meeting with Origens advisor. So I dont think this was 
unreasonable. Mr C responded on 18 October wanting to go ahead with the transfer. This 
was contrary to the advice in Origens suitability report.
Origen then had a further conversation with Mr C about how to proceed. The FCA published 
their view of good and poor practice for businesses in dealing with insistent clients. These 
werent rules, but I still think it would be fair for Origen to follow a process that reflected the 
observed good practice. Origen could still process Mr Cs transfer application contrary to 
their recommendation, but its fair that they would want to make sure Mr C understood the 
implications and that he provided an explanation in his own words rather than simply signing 
a disclaimer. This additional step meant that Mr C wasnt sent the application form until 26 
October 2018, but I think it was a reasonable step for Origen to take. The completion and 
submission of the form and supporting documentation happened very promptly.
Transfers from the OPS were placed on hold by the administrators of Mr Cs scheme from 
26 October 2018. I know that Mr C thinks that Origen could have moved faster following his 
initial meeting with them and it wouldve meant his application could have been received 
before that date. But I dont agree. For the above reasons I dont think that Origen caused 
unreasonable delays in the run up to the application. I would also note that neither Mr C nor 
Origen were working to a deadline of 26 October as they were unaware that the OPS 
administrators would suspend transfers. At the point that Origen submitted the transfer 
application it was reasonable for them to believe that a transfer prior to Mr C reaching age 
55 was likely.
The administrators of the OPS lifted the suspension on transfers on 14 December 2018. So 
Mr Cs transfer could have progressed. But the administrators of Mr Cs OPS misplaced key 
documents theyd been sent. This was resolved by 20 December 2018 but accounted for a 
further delay. 
For the above reasons, it isnt fair or reasonable to hold Origen responsible for the fact that 
Mr Cs transfer value didnt reach his SIPP until 28 January 2019. I know that Mr C had expected to have access to his tax-free cash lump sum when he turned 55 and had plans for 
that money. I can see that this caused him stress and anxiety and meant he had to withdraw 
money from a different personal pension at the beginning of January. But because I dont 
think Origen could have made the transfer happen earlier than it did, it isnt fair to hold them 
to account for the impact that had on Mr C. I cant ask Origen to compensate Mr C for his 
having to cash in a policy he wanted to leave, or for the impact on his health because of the 
missed deadline.
Mr C experienced further frustration after the funds had been transferred though. He didnt 
receive his TFC until 11 February which was nine working days after transfer.
Origen say that the delay in paying Mr C his TFC was because the SIPP provider deducted 
fees from the cash part of the fund on the same day Origen requested the TFC. That didnt 
leave enough cash in the fund to pay the full TFC and Origen had to then instruct the sale of 
investments within the pension in order to release the cash. 
Origen were well aware from the outset that Mr C wanted to access his TFC as close to age 
55 as possible. They could have instructed the SIPP provider to immediately crystallise 
Mr Cs pension on receipt of the transfer. The SIPP provider have explained that Mr C would 
then have had the TFC within three working days of the transfer. In order to best meet 
Mr Cs expectation, I think Origen should have done this. In choosing to invest the funds 
prior to payment of the TFC they were responsible for causing a delay. Had they provided 
the instruction that I think they should have, Mr C would have had his TFC by 
31 January 2019 instead.
The impact of this was that Mr C ended up paying higher fees than he ought to have done. 
There was an ongoing adviser fee of 0.74% of the fund value. And Origen have explained 
that would be calculated on the fund value at close of business at the end of the month. If 
the TFC had been paid by 31 January 2019 - as I believe it should have been - the amount 
in the fund when the February adviser fee was calculated would have only been 75% of the 
transferred value. So the fee deducted from Mr Cs SIPP and paid to Origen in February 
would have been 25% less than the £490.49 actually deducted. Which most likely reduced 
the value of Mr Cs SIPP by £122.62 (25% of the actual fee).
I would like to thank both parties for responding to my provisional decision so promptly. 
Neither party has offered any further comments or evidence for me to consider. So I can 
move to a final decision now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the frustration that Mr C has experienced in this case. He wanted to transfer his 
pension in order to access his TFC. And he had a deadline in mind for this transfer which 
would have seemed achievable when he started the process. Im sorry that this was delayed 
and the consequences of that for him. But for the reasons that I explained above, the things 
that delayed the transfer werent due to any failings Ive seen with Origen. And this complaint 
is only looking at the actions of Origen in this transfer.
Having considered everything in this case fully, I remain of the opinion that Origen should 
have handled the crystallisation of Mr Cs pension in a better way. For the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision, Origen should have instructed the immediate payment 
of the TFC on receipt of the transfer. In failing to do that they caused a further delay, which 
had the consequences of Mr C incurring higher charges than he should have in the first month. And this had the knock-on effect of reducing the value of his SIPP and therefore 
reducing investment returns.
Putting things right
To put this right, Origen should calculate the potential investment returns on the £122.62 
overcharge had it been invested in Mr Cs SIPP from 1 February 2019 to the date of my final 
decision. Origen should then pay £122.62 plus the potential investment return on that sum 
into Mr Cs SIPP.
Origen should also pay Mr C £150 compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused 
by the delay. I understand that Mr C feels that this sum is too low given the overall impact of 
the delays in his transfer. But I think its a fair reflection of the impact based on Origens 
mistake. I can understand Mr Cs overall frustration, but as Ive explained, the biggest issues 
were with things outside of Origens control. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Origen Financial Services Limited to compensate Mr C 
in the manner I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman