DRN-3998514
The complaint
Miss P complains that TSB Bank plc didnt treat her fairly when she requested a refund of a 
payment made with her credit card.
What happened
Miss P bought a plot in an online property auction in April 2021. She decided after making
the successful bid of £2,520 that she didnt want to go through with the purchase because
shed found out that the plot was inaccessible. An amount of £3,000 was charged to her
credit card on the day of the auction. Miss P asked the auction house for a refund but was
refused. In June 2021 Miss P asked TSB for help.
TSB refunded the payment plus interest incurred to Miss Ps credit card account in July. It
raised a chargeback (refund) request with the card scheme on her behalf on the basis that
she hadnt received the goods shed paid for. The auction house provided evidence to the
card scheme in August that the charge was correct and not refundable in the event of a
successful bid.
TSB sent a letter to Miss P on 11 August to advise her of the outcome and provided a copy
of the auction houses challenge to the chargeback request. TSB told Miss P that if it didnt
hear from her that it would re-debit the £3,000 from her account on 31 August. Miss P didnt
respond to this letter and TSB charged the amount to her account.
Miss P was unhappy that TSB had taken back the money and spoke to the bank a number
of times in September. TSB didnt uphold her complaint but said that it should have
considered an alternative refund route for Miss P which is to claim for the amount she paid
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In its final response letter of
27 September it apologised for this delay and offered Miss P £50 compensation.
TSB then investigated whether Miss P could claim a refund of the money shed paid to the
auction house under Section 75 rules on the basis that the plot of land she bought had been
misrepresented to her. It concluded that the claim wouldnt succeed so didnt pursue it. It
sent a letter to Miss P in October 2021 to let her know.
Miss P wasnt happy with how TSB dealt with her refund request and she referred her
complaint to us. Our investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint but didnt recommend that
TSB should take further action. They found that TSB hadnt treated Miss P unfairly because
it had raised a chargeback on her behalf which was successfully challenged and it wasnt
likely that a claim under Section 75 rules would succeed.
Miss P disagreed with this recommendation and asked for her complaint to come to an
ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I sent out a provisional decision to both parties on 
the 1 March explaining why I didnt plan to uphold Miss Ps complaint. I shared the 
information Id relied on and allowed time for either party to comment on my findings or send 
me any new information they wished me to consider. Both Miss P and TSB have 
acknowledged my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having no new information or comment to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set these out again in this final decision. 
As Id said in my provisional decision - for clarity, this is a complaint about how TSB dealt 
with Miss Ps refund request. I have not looked into whether or not the supplier, in this case 
the auction house Miss P made her winning bid through, treated Miss P fairly when it 
charged her an amount of £3,000 in April 2021. That question is outside my remit and might 
be best dealt with either through a complaints process with the auction house, its associated 
ombudsman scheme or through the courts. Im considering whether TSB has acted fairly 
and reasonably in the way it handled Miss Ps request for a refund.
When dealing with disputes of the type raised by Miss P there are two ways in which refunds
can be considered - via a chargeback or via a claim under Section 75. TSB didnt have to
raise a chargeback request for Miss P but I would consider it a fair response to her request
for help, if it seemed that such a request could result in Miss P having her money refunded
and shed already tried to resolve things with the business. TSB did have to consider
whether Miss P was entitled to ask for a refund under Section 75 because the CCA offers
customers a level of protection in certain circumstances when they use credit to pay for
purchases.
When Miss P asked TSB for help, TSB raised a chargeback with the card scheme or, in
other words, asked the card scheme to consider a refund. Chargeback is a process that
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if theres a problem with the goods
or services theyve paid for. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the relevant
card schemes (companies that run the card networks for example VISA or Mastercard) and
refunds arent guaranteed. There are specific circumstances in which such a request can be
raised and strict time limits for doing so.
TSB raised a request on the basis that Miss P didnt receive the goods shed paid for. She
hadnt gone through with the purchase and so didnt end up as the owner of the plot of land
shed bid on although shed paid £3,000. TSB said that the auction house provided a copy of
the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) Miss P signed up to when she registered to bid through an
account with it. These state that once a deposit has been paid and a bid is successful the
customer has to pay the remaining balance or forfeit their deposit. It concluded that the
deposit Miss P paid was non-refundable and so the chargeback had been correctly
challenged.
It seems to me that TSBs interpretation of the disputed transaction was reflected in how it
approached the chargeback request. It considered the £3,000 to be a deposit towards the
plot cost. I suspect this is how Miss P referred to it. TSB later told us that its understanding
of the transaction was that the full price of the plot had been charged to Miss P when the
sale completed and not just the deposit.
The auction houses T&Cs state that a deposit of 10% of the purchase price (subject to a
minimum of £3,000) is to be paid by the successful bidder within 24 hours after the making
of the successful bid to the auctioneers and after the completion and subscription of the
Minute of Preference and Enactment.
Miss P told us that she didnt sign the purchase documents after making the successful bid
because she had learnt that the plot had no access. She said that the usual deposit requiredafter an auction is 10%, not £3,000, and if she was to forfeit an amount it should be 10% of
the sale price not the full sale price. Miss P said that this was irrelevant in her case because
she was sent an email from the auction house the day after the auction to say that it was not
going to take a deposit from her given the low price of the plot and it was now up to her to
pay the full cost to the seller via her solicitor. Shes provided a copy of the email which Ive
reviewed and it does clearly state that no deposit was to be paid.
Miss P also said that the cost of the plot was £2,520 so if she was to be charged the full
amount it would not be £3,000. I understand that the plot was later resold.
If the money Miss P paid was for a deposit on the purchase price after the sale then it seems
to me that £3,000 was the usual minimum charge according to the T&Cs, although Miss P
been told that no deposit would be taken. If, on the other hand, the money Miss P paid was
for the full cost of the plot, then it may be that she should have paid no more than she bid for
it.
In considering how TSB dealt with Miss Ps request for a refund, Ive thought about whether
it would have been reasonable for it to have considered raising a chargeback under another
reason. It is possible that TSB could have raised a chargeback request for Miss P on the
basis that she was charged an incorrect amount not that she didnt receive what shed paid
for. Unfortunately for Miss P I dont think it would have made a difference to the outcome of
her refund request if TSB had done so. This is because there was another fee that Miss P
was required to pay according to the T&Cs.
The T&Cs state that Any bidder will pay the buyers premium of either £2,500/3% when
making a bid for a Lot at an Auction. In the event of the bid being unsuccessful the buyers
premium of £2,500/3% will be returned to the unsuccessful bidder. Buyers premiums are
subject to VAT at the standard rate. The auction website states that any bidder will have a
Pre-Authorisation Instruction for the buyers premium of the greater of either £2,500 / 3%
plus VAT on their credit or debit card when registering to make a bid for a Lot at an
AuctionIn the event of a successful bid, the holding charge will be automatically processed
as the Buyers Premium.
Ive reviewed the documents sent from the auction house in response to the chargeback
request. These include a description of the transaction in question as a deferred payment of
£3,000 registered as a security deposit on the date of the auction and before it closed. It is
possible that the money Miss P paid was the Buyers Premium of £2,500 plus VAT as I
understand that Miss P didnt pay anything after the auction.
I asked Miss P whether shed received any communication from the auction house about the
premium fee. Miss P confirmed that she had no communication from them. So, it seems the 
minimum premium fee of £2,500 plus VAT applied. Whether or not that was a fair charge in
Miss Ps case is a matter to be taken up with the auction house or failing that through other
bodies. Having considered everything carefully, I dont think TSB got something wrong in its
handling of the chargeback process which meant Miss P ended up losing out on the chance
to have a refund. As TSB said to Miss P in its final response letter, it could have considered
a claim under Section 75 earlier than it did, however it has apologised for this and offered
Miss P compensation for this delay.
Unlike a chargeback, customers have a right under Section 75 of the CCA to request a
refund in certain circumstances, for example if the goods or service theyve paid for havent
been provided or havent been as described. Had Miss P paid for the plot she might be
entitled to seek a refund under these rights because the amount she paid was an amount
which would be covered under the Act and she used her credit card account to pay for
something from a third-party  the auction house acting as agent for the land owner. As witha chargeback, a refund isnt guaranteed but TSB was obliged to consider this option for
Miss P.
TSB told Miss P in October 2021 that it had considered whether or not a refund request
under Section 75 on the basis of the plot not being as described was likely to succeed and it
decided that it wasnt. The auction house T&Cs clearly stated that it was up to Miss P to
undertake her own review as to whether the plot was suitable for her: The Purchaser shall
be deemed to have made all necessary enquiries in connection with the planning position,
the status of roads, footpaths, and main drains and generally all such other matters as are
normally covered by Local Authority Searches and Property Enquiry Certificates and the
Seller will not be required to produce and such certificates or Searches. All purchasers and
prospective purchasers are deemed to have placed no reliance whatsoever on any sales
evidence.
The particular issue Miss P had with this plot was lack of access. Shes sent us a link to the
advertisement for the plot which describes it as adjoining a number of individual residential
properties, a ransom strip and ideal for adjoining home owners to buy. Altogether, I dont
think that TSB treated Miss P unfairly by not pursuing a claim under Section 75 on the basis
of mis-representation of the plot.
Having reconsidered everything carefully, I am not upholding Miss Ps complaint. Ive
concluded that TSB didnt get anything wrong in its handling of Miss Ps refund request
which meant that she missed out on having her money returned and overall I dont think TSB
treated her unfairly. I appreciate that this is not the outcome Miss P is hoping for and I am
sorry to disappoint her. I dont require TSB to take any further action in this regard though I 
will mention its obligation to treat Miss P fairly and with forbearance and due consideration if 
she is experiencing financial difficulty at this time.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I am not upholding Miss Ps complaint against 
TSB Bank plc and do not require it to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman