DRN-2221697
The complaint
Mr M complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unreasonably 
cancelled his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M said he and his wife bought a house as an investment in 2011 and took out building 
insurance cover with LV. He said that once renovated they obtained cover so it could be let, 
and renewed the policy each year from then. Mr M said they arranged a lease with an agent 
who sub-let the property. Mr M said he didnt recall any mention of a restriction on subletting 
the property at any time and its not excluded by the policy.
Mr M said when they were insuring another property in 2019 LV asked if it was sublet and 
when he confirmed this LV said it wouldnt provide cover. Mr M said this alerted him to the 
problem but despite his explanation LV then cancelled his policy with seven days notice. 
Mr M complained to LV about the cancellation saying that this will make it more difficult and 
expensive to obtain cover in future and has caused him anxiety and inconvenience. He said 
he wanted LV to withdraw the cancellation and pay him compensation.
LV thanked Mr M for bringing the sub-let to its attention, which it said it wasnt previously 
aware of. It said it had correctly cancelled his policy as it doesnt specialise in insurance for 
properties which are sub-let, and sub-letting is outside of its underwriting criteria. LV said Mr 
M was required by the policy to notify LV of any changes, including renting out his home. LV 
said it offered Mr M alternative cover appropriate for sub-letting a property.
Mr M said he told LV in 2011 the property was to be rented out and would continue to be let. 
He said LV should have asked him at renewal if he was sub-letting or renting the property.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be not upheld. The 
investigator thought the policy documents were clear that Mr M must check all details are 
correct and tell LV of any changes, including if you change the use e.g. you rent it out. He 
said it was reasonable for LV to cancel the policy as it was intended to cover a second 
home/holiday home and wasnt intended to cover a landlord.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the investigator was in 
error that the policy was intended to cover a second or holiday home for his own use. He 
said the policy schedule shows the property was to be rented. He said LV had not offered 
him its landlord policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said he told LV about his plans to sub-let the property in 2011, LV said it wasnt aware. 
Unfortunately, we dont have the call recordings from when the policy was taken out. And I 
have to be guided by the available evidence.
From what Ive seen, Mr Ms policy is principally for residential home insurance. He agrees 
with this but says the policy reflects the change to landlord arrangements and that sub-letting 
wasnt mentioned. Im afraid I dont agree with him as I cant see the characteristics of a 
commercial landlords policy in his arrangements. Sub-letting isnt mentioned as its not a 
risk that LV is offering to cover.
Mr Ms Policy Schedule records information about him and the insured property. It describes 
this as, Your second/holiday home. Owned by you. The policy states that claims are 
excluded where the property is occupied by anyone other than the policyholder and his 
family. It states that a paying guest may be allowed but does not mention sub-letting and 
requires the policyholder to tell LV if renting the property out.
Mr M is correct to say his policy doesnt exclude sub-letting. This is because it doesnt 
anticipate or cover any sub-letting arrangements. Paying guests is as far as it will permit a 
commercial relationship from the property owner. 
I think the description of the property as a second/holiday home and the cover set out in the 
policy documents ought reasonably to have alerted Mr M that his letting arrangements 
werent covered by his policy.
LV said it offered full landlord cover in 2011, but has never covered sub-letting. Ultimately, 
its the policyholders responsibility to obtain the cover appropriate for their needs. If Mr M 
feels he was misadvised about his insurance cover he may have a separate complaint about 
this.
The terms of the policy allow LV to cancel the policy where, a change in your circumstances 
means that we can no longer provide cover. This is a standard feature of insurance policies 
and protects insurers from insuring unanticipated risks. I dont think it was unfair for LV to 
use this term and its commercial decision not to cover properties that are sub-let to cancel 
Mr Ms policy in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman