DRN-1633390
 
Complaint 
Mrs G complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a store card in March 1997.
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD has taken responsibility 
for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this decision.
Background
Mrs G applied for the PPI in the store when she took out her store card there. This policy 
covered her if she lost her job, was off work because she was sick, or if she had an accident. 
The policy cost £1.00 for every £100.00 of the outstanding balance owed on the card and on 
a successful claim, it would have covered Mrs G for 15% of that balance until the 
outstanding balance on the card was repaid, or she returned to work.
Our adjudicator said he didn't think this was a case that should be upheld. Mrs G disagreed 
with our adjudicators view. She said she never agreed to the PPI being added onto her 
card. She asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mrs G had a choice about buying the PPI. This 
policy was taken out in store. AXA has provided a copy of the agreement Mrs G saw and 
signed at the time of the sale. On it theres a section about PPI. Mrs G has ticked the box to 
confirm she wanted her account covered by the insurance. Mrs G has also signed and dated 
the application. On balance, I think Mrs G would likely have read the form confirming all her 
personal details and understood she had applied for the insurance. If Mrs G hadn't wanted 
the PPI she could have left this part of the form blank. And I can see that she hasn't opted to 
take out card protection- another optional insurance policy. I also think the PPI would have 
appeared on Mrs Gs statements so if she didn't want the policy or didn't know she had it she 
could have questioned it at the time - I havent seen evidence she did so.
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that Mrs G agreed to take 
the PPI out at the time knowing she could refuse it if she didn't want it even if its 
understandable if she cant remember that now after such a long time. 
I dont think AXA recommended this policy to Mrs G. So, it didn't have to make sure it was 
suitable for her circumstances. But it still had to give her enough clear information, so she 
could decide for herself whether she wanted to take out the policy or leave it.It's possible that not all the information was as clear as it could have been. But even if the 
information could have been clearer that doesn't mean I can automatically uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint. I have to decide whether Mrs G would have acted differently if shed been given 
all the information she should have been given.
To help me decide, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of this policy and Mrs 
Gs personal circumstances.
I still think Mrs G would have bought the cover. I say this as it appears Mrs G was eligible for 
the policy. And as she was in full time employment and had no pre-existing medical 
conditions, I dont think she would have been affected by any of the main terms and 
conditions of the policy which might have made it more difficult to make a successful claim.
Mrs G said she didn't need the policy as she would have received sick pay from her 
employer of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. She has also said she had 
some savings. But I can see if Mrs G had to make a claim on the PPI, 15% of her balance 
would have been paid every month until the balance was repaid. I know that Mrs G had 
existing resources, but with this cover, she could have used those resources on her other 
essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she 
was out of work. I have also taken into consideration that this policy would have paid out in 
addition to and for longer than her sick pay would have lasted. So overall I still think the 
policy was useful to her. 
So, for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been useful if Mrs G lost 
her job or couldn't work. And it looks as though she chose to buy the insurance  so it looks 
like she wanted that type of cover at the time. I havent seen anything to suggest the 
premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mrs G would have acted 
differently even if AXA had given her more or better information about the policy. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but after taking everything into account, it follows that I 
havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. I dont 
require AXA France IARD to take any further action in respect of it. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman