DRN-1839916
The complaint
Ms R had a motor insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc. She says it provided poor 
service after she reported an incident to it for notification only.
What happened
Ms R says that in December 2018 she was part-way through reversing her car out of a 
space in a car park when another car that was also reversing came into contact with it. She 
says there was very minor damage to her car and none to the other drivers car. But a few 
days later she was contacted about a hire car for the other driver. Ms R reported the incident 
to AXA at that point, as she thought the other driver may be trying to make a bogus claim. 
Ms R says she heard nothing further from AXA and considered the matter to be closed.
 
In July 2019 Ms R took out a new policy with insurer B. Shortly afterwards, it was cancelled. 
Insurer B said it had found an open claim on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
database (CUE) that Ms R hadnt declared when she took the policy out. Ms R then found 
that alternative insurance cost three times the price shed initially secured with insurer B. 
She thought AXA was to blame for what had happened. She said she didnt know there was 
a claim on the policy and that AXA hadnt told her about the record it had put on CUE. 
 
AXA said that even an incident reported to it for notification only would be recorded on CUE 
and that Ms R was required to disclose any incident to her new insurer. AXA accepted that it 
hadnt told Ms R about the personal injury claim the other driver had made and didnt keep 
her updated. It also accepted that whilst dealing with her complaint it hadnt given her good 
service. AXA paid Ms R £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Rs complaint. She said insurers normally ask 
consumers about claims, incidents and losses when a policy is taken out. She thought it was 
likely insurer B had asked about Ms Rs driving history, and that if so, she should have 
declared what happened in December 2018. The investigator thought that if shed done that 
the policy may not have been cancelled. She didnt think AXA was to blame for the 
cancellation, and she thought its offer of compensation for poor service was fair.
 
Ms R said she wasnt at fault for the incident and that AXA hadnt told her it was classed as a 
fault claim. She said she thought insurers make a huge distinction between not declaring a 
minor incident and not mentioning a fault claim. In her view, AXA had withheld information 
from her, and as a result she forgot about the incident. In a later call with the investigator, 
she said even if shed recalled the incident, she wouldnt have thought it needed to be 
declared, and wouldnt have done so. As there was no agreement, the complaint was 
passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially, Ms R wasnt going to report the incident to AXA, even for notification only, although 
she was required to do that. From what shes said, she only called it because she became 
aware that the other driver had made a claim or may be about to do that. Ms R seems to 
have believed that - as she thought it was bogus - AXA would simply be able to dismiss it. 
AXA followed up on the details Ms R had provided, as it was required to do as an insurer. It 
found that the other driver held her at fault for the accident. I think that was to be expected, 
given that the other driver was seeking a hire car from her. AXA says it sent an accident 
report form to Ms R shortly afterwards, plus a letter stating that it would be looking into who 
was responsible for the incident. Ms R says she didnt get either of the letters.
AXA hasnt provided screenshots showing the issue dates of the letters, but it has provided 
copies of them. And it has shown that when it emailed the other drivers representative the 
same day (to dispute liability for the accident) it said in the email that it had sent Ms R an 
accident report form. So I think its more likely than not that the letters were sent to her.    
Although there were then calls between AXA and the lawyers then acting for the other driver, 
it seems the claim was no further along (and therefore there was little for AXA to report) 
before Ms R called it again in July 2019, having found out about the CUE record. 
AXA is required to record any incident or claim it becomes aware of on CUE. In this case, 
from the outset it seemed a claim had been or would be made. AXA disputed liability for the 
accident on the day Ms R first called it, so it didnt hold Ms R at fault. But I dont think AXA 
did anything wrong by recording an open claim on CUE, regardless of that. Unfortunately, 
an open record on CUE is regarded as a fault claim by other insurers until the claim is 
resolved. I think the record reflected the situation accurately at the time. 
 
Ms R says that if AXA had told her it was treating the incident as a claim, or had put it on the 
portal, she would have declared it to insurer B. I think AXA tried to make Ms R aware of what 
was happening when it wrote to her. And in any event, I think she already knew, or ought to 
have known, that the accident in December 2018 had led to (or might result in) a claim 
against her policy. She was alerted to that when she was contacted directly about car hire 
for the other driver, which is why she called AXA in the first place. So even if she didnt get 
AXAs letters, I think Ms R was put on notice of the claim.
 
In my opinion, Ms R could have checked the situation with AXA before buying a new 
insurance policy. Its a consumers responsibility to give a new insurer accurate details of 
their driving history when asked. Ms R says shed forgotten all about the accident when she 
bought the new policy, even though it had only happened just over six months previously. 
She also told us that if shed recalled it, she wouldnt have mentioned it to insurer B anyway, 
as it would have made no difference. I dont think thats a reasonable view to take, as it 
means deliberately withholding details from an insurer that its entitled to be made aware of.
 
I know Ms R disagrees with the fact that shes required to mention any incident to an insurer 
if asked - even one reported for notification only. In this case, I dont think that would have 
reflected the situation at the time anyway. Ms R assumed that as she hadnt seen any 
damage to the other drivers car, there was none. But not all damage is apparent. She didnt 
think the other driver would make a personal injury claim (justifiably or otherwise). And she 
assumed that AXA would simply be able to dismiss the other drivers claim as bogus.
 
Its not possible to say for sure what would have happened had Ms R reported to insurer B 
either that another driver had made a bogus claim against her in December 2018 or that 
shed reported an information-only incident to AXA. Insurer B may or may not have offered 
her cover, but had it done so, insurer B may not have cancelled the policy later, when it 
noted the entry on CUE. It may have decided that Ms R had tried to provide it with what she thought were accurate details of her driving history. So - if it was then no longer able to offer 
her cover - it may have allowed Ms R to cancel the policy herself. But it seems Ms R made 
no reference to what happened in December 2018 when she took out the new policy. 
     
I dont think AXA can be blamed for the new policys cancellation. Although I think it could 
have kept Ms R better informed and handled contact with her better, I think it paid her a 
reasonable amount of compensation for that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman