DRN-3944254
The complaint
Miss W complains about the standard of repair carried out on her vehicle after she made a 
claim on her motor insurance policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral). 
What happened
Miss Ws unattended vehicle was impacted on its drivers side (offside) by a third-party 
vehicle. It was recovered for repairs, and once repaired it was returned to Miss W. However, 
at its MOT,  which took place a number of weeks later, it was determined that the offside 
rear (OSR) alloy wheel was distorted enough to require immediate replacement and that 
both nearside alloy wheels (NSR and NSF) were slightly distorted and marked as MOT 
advisories. 
Miss W wants Admiral to replace the two wheels that were advisory fails (with tyres) and 
reimburse her for the one shes already replaced. Miss W says the wheels were clearly 
damaged either on impact or when they impacted the kerb on the passenger side of the 
vehicle. She would also like confirmation that an inspection was carried out on the chassis 
and axles at the time of repair.
Admiral says there was potentially only one wheel damaged in the impact, and that was the 
offside front (OSF) wheel. This was replaced as part of the claim. It says the geometry test 
undertaken after the repairs were carried out shows no issues, and that five weeks had 
passed before these further issues were brought to light. Admiral says this type of issue 
wouldve been noticeable straight away, so it says these issues are not related to this 
specific accident.
So, Miss W brought her complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint but 
said Admiral hadnt done anything wrong. 
But Miss W doesnt agree, and shes asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Miss W says that in the original estimate of parts requiring renewal post-accident, Admiral 
lists all four wheels as requiring replacement. She says that this, alongside the MOT fails 
and advisories, points to an incomplete repair. Miss W, in her communication with us says 
that no evidence was ever provided to explain why the decision was then taken to replace 
one wheel and tyre only. 
Admiral says that even though all wheels were originally listed, this Audatex report was only 
an estimate based on an initial basic inspection. It says that following a further inspection, 
specifically around the impact area, which was the offside front (OSF) door and A-post, it 
was deemed that the OSF wheel and tyre should be replaced as a precaution only. The 
three other wheels were taken off the Audatex costing. An email from Admiral states that 
there were no claim related issues with the remaining three wheels. 
I know Miss W says theres no evidence to support this. But Im satisfied that this decision 
was safe. It was made following a further in-depth inspection and is documented in the final 
Audatex estimate of repairs. 
Admiral has also provided a wheel alignment geometry report that was produced post repair 
and before the MOT. It shows all front and rear primary final angles to be in the green, which 
means that as of that date, some 5 - 6 weeks pre-MOT all wheel alignment angles were 
within the required tolerance. 
Admiral has also considered the video that was taken at the time of the MOT. The agent in 
the video says its clear the suspension is fine.  Ive also looked at this video. Its clear there 
is a wobble in the OSR wheel and a similar but a much less prominent wobble in both 
nearside wheels. This video also shows that the garage is satisfied that all suspensions, 
springs and shock absorbers are in a fair condition. And Im satisfied that this is clear 
evidence confirmed at inspection by an employee working in the motor trade. 
However, its clear the wheels are distorted. One wheel needed immediate replacing and we 
have two other wheels where replacement was advised. The question is whether these 
wheels were damaged following the impact, or whether the wheels have been damaged in 
day to day use. 
For me to deem Admiral responsible for these repairs, I would have to be able to say that 
based on the evidence provided, that the three wheels were more likely than not damaged in 
the specific impact. However, based on what Ive seen, I cant say this is the case. Yes, I 
agree there is a wobble, however slight, in all three wheels. However, during repairs the 
garage deemed none of these wheels had been damaged in the accident. Further to this, a 
geometric report states all front and rear alignment angles to be within tolerance. And further 
to this, a video taken at the time of MOT says all suspension components are in fair 
condition. 
A distortion such as the ones shown in the video are caused when the rim is bent, and this 
causes the wheel to run with a wobble. This is almost always caused by impact. So, I can 
see why Miss W believes these distortions couldve been caused during the impact by the 
third-party, especially if theres a chance the rims on the nearside impacted with the kerb. 
But the evidence would indicate that the repairing garage did everything correctly. It carried 
out an alignment test (which usually includes at least one road test) and produced an 
alignment report. This report which measures the angles, caster (steering pivot), camber 
(vertical wheel angle) and toe (horizontal wheel angle) shows that all angles are within their 
allowed tolerances. Then theres the video from the garage where the MOT was later carried 
out. This confirms all suspension components to be in fair visual condition. So, it would seem 
that the wheel alignment and suspensions were all ok post repair.
Looking closer at the video I can see that all three wheels in question have consistent wheel 
kerbing damage, such as chipping, scratches and marks on the circumference. I appreciate 
this is the type of damage you see on most alloy wheels. But these markings would indicate 
that these three wheels have sustained numerous impacts over a period of time. As such, 
these sustained impacts are as likely to have caused wheel rim distortion as the vehicle itself 
being involved in a one-off impact with a third party. Further to this, if the wheels had heavy 
impact with the kerb at the time of the accident, I would expect to see further damage in the 
centre of the alloys, and thats not clear in the video. So, I think its really difficult to say when these wheels became distorted. And as its not possible to pinpoint the damage on the three 
wheels to the actual impact being dealt with by Admiral, it follows that I cant ask Admiral to 
pay for this damage.
In relation to the tyres, I can see from the video that all four tyres were in good enough 
condition to pass the MOT. I agree the agent did advise that one tyre was getting low. But it 
was measured at 4mm against a limit of 1.6mm. So, I think this was an cautionary message 
that Miss W should be aware the tyre is nearing its legal limit. I dont agree that the agent 
was suggesting that the tyre needed immediate replacement. 
I know Miss W will be disappointed with this outcome. But given the visual evidence 
available its not possible to safely say these wheels were distorted during that one impact 
only. Further to this Im satisfied Admiral conducted the alignment tests required to pass the 
vehicle as roadworthy before it was returned. Im also satisfied the tyres were all within the 
required legal limit. As such, I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Admiral to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman