DRN-3897682
The complaint
Ms L complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse funds she lost to an investment scam. 
Ms L was looking to invest in crypto currency and found an adviser who Ill call S on a well-
known social media platform. Ms L said S held themselves out as someone who was into 
finance and ran seminars on teaching people how to trade in crypto. S advised Ms L to open 
crypto accounts with Crypto.com. And S sent a link for the Bitfinex crypto platform. Both of 
these are legitimate crypto businesses. The following transactions took place as a result of 
the scam and were all sent to Crypto.com:
30 June 2021 £103.41 debit Card payment
1 July 2021 £390 debit Faster payment
2 July 2021 £1,484.07 credit From Crypto.com
5 July 2021 £1,227.11 debit Card Payment
5 July 2021 £2,205.91 debit Card Payment
5 July 2021 £2,552.01 debit Card Payment
7 July 2021 £8,900 debit Faster Payment
8 July 2021 £11,352.75 debit Card Payment
Total loss £25,247.12
Unbeknownst to Ms L, the app link to Bitfinex appears to have been fake and so she never 
really had an account with it. This came to light when Ms L wanted to make a withdrawal and 
was told her account was frozen due to money laundering concerns and that she'd need to 
deposit £20,000 to unfreeze it. She got in touch with Bitfinex directly, and she was told she 
never had an account with it and her email address wasn't the one linked to the account she 
thought was hers. 
Ms L reported the matter to HSBC. But it didn't refund any of her losses and stood by that
decision when she complained.
 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She was satisfied HSBC ought to have 
intervened before allowing the final payment on 5 July 2021, as multiple payments were 
unusual for the account. And so she asked it to refund Ms L's loss from that point.
HSBC disagreed. In summary it doesn't believe Ms L did sufficient due diligence before 
investing, and it considers a return of over £1,400 from a small investment just a matter of 
days before to have been a red flag that ought to have alerted Ms L to something being 
wrong. So it has argued there should be some deduction as Ms L has contributed to her own 
loss. It also cited an intervention call that took place before the payment of £8,900 was 
made, which it argues makes dear Ms L would have proceeded in any event; and as there 
weren't any warnings it doesn't think asking Ms L to do more research would have 
uncovered the scam.
Ms L has also mentioned in her complaint that she asked for a payment of £15,000 to be 
stopped but that didn't happen. I haven't seen evidence of a £15,000 payment being made 
as part of this scam. If either party is able to shed more light on that it is something I can 
take into account in any final decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 9 January 2023 explaining what outcome I was minded 
to reach. I said:
Ms L authorised the transactions in question. Whilst she didn't intend to lose her funds to a 
scammer, she is initially presumed liable for the loss, as they were payment requests she 
had made of her bank.
However. HSBC is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts 
to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and in some situations make additional 
checks before processing payments or declined them altogether, to protect customers from 
possible financial harm from fraud or scams.
I have looked at the operation of Ms L's account in the 12 months prior to the scam. And I 
agree with the investigator that I wouldn't have expected some of the earlier transactions in 
dispute to trigger HSBC's fraud alert systems, even if they were to a new payee. However, I 
also agree that by the third payment on 5 July 2021, there were sufficient flags such that 
HSBC ought to have recognised its customer was at risk. Prior to this day, Ms L had rarely 
made a transaction of more than a few hundred pounds. And whilst she sometimes did pay 
the same merchant more than once on any one day, that was never for the sums involved 
here. Given the amounts, that the payments were going to crypto asset providers and the 
velocity of the transactions, I think HSBC ought to have intervened before allowing the final 
payment through. I think it ought to have paused that payment pending further enquiries.
HSBC doesn't think an intervention would have worked as it did intervene in the next 
payment; it considers Ms L would have wanted to proceed in any event. Having listened to 
the call, I agree that Ms L was impatient to have it made. I also accept that Ms L was asked 
some questions around the payment, but it doesnt appear the call handler really listened to 
Ms L's responses.
 
I say this because Ms L clearly explains she is investing in crypto currency. Yet when the call 
handler gives information to Ms L about scams, investment scams doesn't feature at all - 
rather the call handler speaks of impersonation scams. I can therefore understand why Ms L 
wasn't that keen to hear what was said as it bore no resemblance to what she was doing.
Furthermore. Ms L was keen for the payment to be made and she tells the call handler it was 
to facilitate making a withdrawal and it needed to be done immediately. I consider this ought 
to have been a red flag to HSBC. Needing to make a payment to facilitate a withdrawal is an
extremely common feature of investment scams, something the bank would have been very
familiar with by 2021 - given these scams started to become commonplace in 2018 and have 
increased since. Whilst its not for me to dictate what questions it should have asked it 
seems the call handler was more intent on following a script than having a good discussion 
with its customer about what was happening. Better questioning could have revealed that Ms 
L came by this opportunity on social media - something banks know, but the layperson might not - legitimate businesses would rarely use. And I've already found it ought to have been on 
alert from being told of the need to make a deposit to withdraw funds. This meant HSBC 
could have provided a better scam warning and tailored it towards investment rather than 
other types of scam.
I have taken into account that Ms L was keen to make the payment and was fairly impatient 
during the call. But I don't find the same could be said had HSBC been more specific in 
response to what it did know; it didn't take much for Ms L to get in touch with the real Bitfinex 
and for the scam to unravel. And I'm satisfied some targeted scam advice from her trusted 
bank would likely have resulted in that far sooner.
HSBC has also argued that Ms L didn't do any due diligence and so she was contributory 
negligent: it argues that advising her to do more research wouldn't have brought to light 
information that would have shown she was being scammed. It seems to me that HSBC has 
almost argued its own point; if a customer couldn't have come across information for 
themselves that would have led to the discovery of a scam, then its arguable they haven't 
contributed to their own loss.
That said, I am aware that during the aforementioned intervention call, Ms L was asked if 
anyone had contacted her about the investment. Ms L answered 'no', which wasn't true, and 
she was asked something similar on more than one occasion. At no point did Ms L divulge 
that she was in contact with someone, and that someone was advising her on how to invest 
in crypto currency. Had she done so, I think HSBC would have been more alert to what was 
happening and so tailored its questions better than it did. By answering the questions in the 
way she did, HSBC was prevented - to some extent - from doing a better intervention call. I 
am therefore minded to say that Ms L did indeed contribute to her loss, and I think a fair 
reduction would be 25% of her loss from the point I think HSBC ought to have intervened, 
This reduction fairly takes into account the responsibility of both parties, but also of the 
imbalance of knowledge and expertise between them.
The investigator also awarded interest at a savings account rate on the loss as a large sum 
had been transferred in from a savings account that Ms L then used for the investment.
However, Im not currently minded to make an award for interest at all. Ms L was clearly
intent on investing in crypto-currency and went so far as to refer to this as a business. This 
was specifically what she was researching, when she came across the opportunity. As such, 
I'm satisfied that had Ms L not invested via S, she would likely have invested in crypto assets 
in any event. And as is well known, crypto assets can be quite volatile, such that it isn't clear 
she would have earned anything over and above her initial investment, such that an award 
of interest would be fair.
 
Finally, Ms L has referred to the Authorised Push Payment code, and that she should have 
been able to get a refund of the card payments under the chargeback scheme. I assume the 
code Ms L is referring to is the Contingent Reimbursement Model, if so that only covers 
authorised push payments to another person. All of the faster payments Ms L made were to 
her own account with Crypto.com and so don't fall under the code. The card payments arent 
push payments but pull payments and aren't covered by the code either. And there was no 
prospect of a successful chargeback for the card payments as the service was provided -
the transferring of fiat money into crypto currency by Crypto.com. That the crypto asset was
further transferred to a scammer doesn't alter that.
I explained I was minded to ask HSBC to reimburse Ms L £17,103.57. 
HSBC has accepted the outcome reached but wasnt able to shed any light on a payment of 
£15,000. Ms L has confirmed she has no further arguments to make. But she has explained 
when she reported the scam, she had over £15,000 in her account, and the final payment of £11,352.75 was only pending and hadnt left her account; its this she believes should have 
been frozen and so she wouldnt have lost it. She has provided further documentation to 
show when she reported the scam in support of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have responded to my provisional findings, I can now proceed to issue my 
final decision. And as neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for me to 
consider in relation to the amount Im minded to award and why, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision. 
I thank Ms L for now clarifying the issue with regards to the £15,000 she had mentioned 
previously. And I now understand thats shes unhappy the final payment was still made, 
despite it being pending at the time of reporting the scam. 
I do understand the point she is making and can appreciate her belief the payment could 
have been stopped. However, its my understanding card payments are a guaranteed form of 
payment and cant actually be stopped or reversed whilst they are pending. So HSBC 
wouldnt have been able to prevent the final amount being paid out despite the scam having 
been reported before it went. I also accept Ms L might have been passed through a few 
different departments and had to complete forms to no avail but given the different forms of 
payment used this isnt surprising. And chargebacks do usually necessitate the completion 
of a dispute form.
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. I require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to reimburse Ms L £17,103.57. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman