DRN-2931480
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) put a marker on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs N agreed a six-month payment plan with Lloyds in 2019. Lloyds added a marker on her 
credit file.
Mrs N complained that Lloyds didnt tell her that would happen. Her credit file was badly 
affected. She was declined for a loan which was needed to pay the costs of a relatives 
funeral. This has caused a lot of family upset and personal stress for her. The compensation 
of £200 offered by Lloyds wasnt enough.
Lloyds apologised. They agreed they hadnt advised Mrs N that there would be an impact on 
her credit file. They paid compensation of £200 for their mistake and deleted the markers 
from Mrs Ns credit file.
Mrs N said the compensation wasnt enough and brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator said she felt the award was OK. She couldnt be certain that the loan was 
declined because of the credit markers  there may have been other factors also. 
Mrs N asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds apologised to Mrs N for their error  they didnt advise her that the payment plan they 
agreed in 2019 would be noted on her credit file. Ive listened to the call in which the plan 
was set up  Lloyds agreed to charge zero interest for six months - and there wasnt any 
mention of the affect on Mrs Ns credit file. For that, they paid compensation of £200. But  
Mrs N says that this isnt enough  because two years later, she was declined a loan 
because of the markers on her records. This was needed to pay for the funeral of a family 
member. This has caused a lot of upset and discord among the family. 
So  the crux of Mrs Ns complaint is that the compensation should be more  and Ive 
considered this. I can see that we asked Mrs N for information or evidence of the loan 
application that was declined, and the reasons for that  so we could form a view on why it 
was turned down. But unfortunately, she couldnt supply this. So  in all honesty, we cant 
make a decision about the impact of that without firmer evidence.  And  without it - as our 
investigator said, we must make a decision on the balance of probabilities. Lenders assess 
loans based on many factors, and the loan may have been declined for several other 
reasons, not only because of the markers on Mrs Ns credit file. 
I was sorry to hear of the impact of what happened on Mrs Ns relationship with her family. 
Ive also considered this in my decision.
The matter of compensation is a subjective one. Lloyds award of £200 sits in the middle of 
what this service would expect to see for something with moderate impact  and in all the 
circumstances of this case, on balance, I think thats right here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman