DRN-2859359
The complaint
Mr G complains Morses Club PLC (Morses) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr G took three home credit loans between December 2016 and May 2017. Ive included 
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan 
AmountDate of loan Term 
(weeks) Repayment Date
1 £300 13/12/2016 33 31/05/2017
2 £300 06/03/2017 33 written off 
3 £300 31/05/2017 33 written off
Morses says that it was told Mr G entered into a Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in 
August 2017 and this IVA was terminated in 2019. But, Morses has told us that it hasnt and 
wont start collection of the outstanding balance due. 
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted the loans. He thought 
the checks Morses completed went far enough and the loans would have seemed affordable 
and sustainable. So, he didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have approved any of the 
loans. 
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators findings and asked to take his complaint further. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr G could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Gs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
Mr G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr G.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr G could sustainably repay his instalment loans 
 not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr G was able 
to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) says payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
All these loans were due to repaid via 33 weekly instalments of £15. Some of these loans 
overlapped so the weekly commitment that Mr G was expected to make to Morses was, at 
times up to £30. 
For each of Mr Gs three loans, Morses did the same type of check. It asked Mr G to declare 
his income, which he declared to be between £231 - £254 a week. With outgoings of 
between £70 - £95 a week. Based on what Mr G declared he had a weekly disposable 
income of at least £118 and as high as £184. Given that the largest repayment Mr G was 
committed to making of £30 per week Morses could reasonably have thought that Mr G 
would be in a position to afford his repayments. 
It also looks like, based on the income and expenditure information Morses provided that 
some of Mr Gs expenditure was evidenced - such as utilities, when he applied for this final 
loan. 
I also dont think it had yet reached the stage either due to the number of loans, the amount 
of time Mr G was in debt or any other repayment problems that may have indicated to 
Morses that these loans had become unsustainable for Mr G. 
I accept that Mr Gs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in either the 
information he provided. But at this early stage of the lending relationship, I dont think it was 
wrong of Morses to have relied on the information it had. I also dont think Morses checks 
needed to go further than it did and there was nothing in the information that it obtained to 
suggest that Mr G was having wider financial difficulties. 
Overall, considering the level of lending, the terms over which the loans were due to be 
repaid and the information Mr G provided to Morses, I think the checks Morses carried out 
were proportionate. And the checks showed it that Mr G was likely to be able to afford the repayments that he was committed to repaying. Im therefore not upholding Mr Gs complaint 
about his loans so Morses doesnt have to make any amendments to his credit file. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr G. But I hope that hell understand why Ive 
reached the findings that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and I make no 
award against Morses Club PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman