DRN-4184615
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc failed to refund fees and interest relating to a 
disputed charge in 2012.
Mr M wants Santander to pay him compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to 
him.
What happened
In March 2023, Santander wrote to Mr M to about a refund of fees and interest associated 
with a disputed transaction that it had already refunded in 2012. Santander told Mr M that it 
would apply the refund to reduce his outstanding credit card balance.
Mr M complained to Santander that it had taken 12 years to remedy the problem with his 
account despite emailing Santander over the years. 
Santander apologised for the mistake and explained it had discovered the oversight as part 
of a remediation project across its business. Santander said that as Mr Ms account was up 
to date at the time of the disputed transaction, it would refund the fees and interest direct to 
Mr M and pay further interest on the payment. Santander also sent Mr M £75 as a goodwill 
gesture.
The investigator didnt recommend that Santander do more to resolve the complaint. She 
said Santander didnt have any record of Mr Ms emails. The investigator thought 
Santanders offer was fair, particularly as it had stopped pursuing the outstanding balance 
from 2014.
Mr M disagrees with the investigation outcome so the complaint has come to me a final 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the upset caused to Mr M but I agree with the investigator that 
Santander has already done and offered enough to put things right. 
Santander doesnt have any record of receiving Mr Ms earlier emails about the fees and 
interest. Although Santander has spoken to Mr M about his account over the years, its 
records dont indicate that he previously mentioned any concerns about the fees and interest 
associated with the refunded disputed transaction. Mr M explains that he was struggling with 
health issues at the time, so the fees and interest werent at the top of his agenda. But if Mr 
M had been as stressed about Santanders failure to refund these sums as he says he was, I 
wouldve reasonably expected him to complain sooner than he did. 
I appreciate Mr M was upset to receive Santanders letter in 2023 telling him about the 
refund, particularly as it related to an event many years ago that he says hed already 
brought to Santanders attention. But Im satisfied that Santander has now put Mr M back in 
the position he wouldve been had it correctly refunded the fees and interest at the time. I 
also think that by apologising and paying £75 compensation, Santander has fairly 
recognised the impact its mistake has had on Mr M. So, I dont require it to take further 
action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Santander has already 
done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman