DRN-2188290
The complaint
Mr T complains Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly turned down his claim when he was 
unable to work. 
What happened
Mr T works as a self-employed trades person.  He holds a mortgage payment protection 
insurance policy with Lloyds. And in the event of a successful claim, the policy can pay a 
defined monthly benefit for up to 12 months. 
Mr Ts policy sets out the terms of the unemployment benefit in relation to policy holders who 
are self employed as follows: 
Self Employed
In order to claim for unemployment, three specific conditions apply. You need to:
have ceased trading because you could not find enough work to meet all your 
reasonable business and living expenses; and
have declared the above to HM Revenue & Customs; and
present the scheme administrators with a copy of your Jobseekers 
Agreement and ongoing proof that you are registered as unemployed with the 
Department for Work and Pensions, or provide suitable alternative proof of 
unemployment.  
Mr T said he was unable to work due to the restrictions imposed by the government in 
relation to the COVID-19 pandemic. And he made a claim against his policy in April 2020. 
Lloyds declined the claim and said this was because Mr Ts unemployment was temporary, 
and hed not ceased trading. 
Mr T complained to Lloyds. He said hed provided evidence that hed been claiming 
universal credit due to being unemployed. And said there was no evidence he could obtain 
from HMRC.  
Lloyds responded to the complaint and said it thought its decision to decline the claim had 
been correct. It said in order to make a successful claim, Mr T would need to have ceased 
trading and have declared this to HMRC. It said Mr T had advised his unemployment was 
temporary due to the government restrictions. And said the policy didnt provide cover for Mr 
Ts circumstances. 
Unhappy with the response from Lloyds, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Lloyds had turned 
down the claim unfairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im in agreement with the view of the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Lloyds has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr Ts policy states that for a self-employed person to make an unemployment claim, 
several conditions apply. Mr T provided Lloyds with evidence that he was claiming Universal 
Credit due to being unemployed, but the policy also requires him to provide evidence that he 
had ceased trading and has declared this to HMRC. 
Mr T has said he didnt want to declare hed ceased trading to HMRC, as he expected the 
restrictions and his inability to work would be temporary. Whilst I can understand Mr Ts 
reasoning, I think the requirement in his policy is quite clear: he must have ceased trading in 
order to make a claim for unemployment. 
Mr T has said he contacted HMRC and was told there was nothing it could provide him with 
in terms of evidence. This was because Mr T had not ceased trading. If he had, he would 
have had to lodge documentation with HMRC, and could have provided copies to Lloyds as 
evidence. 
I sympathise with the difficult situation Mr T found himself in with regard to the government 
restrictions placed on his type of work. However, Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive 
seen, that he didnt meet the unemployment terms of his policy. And as such, I dont think 
Lloyds has treated him unfairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Society of Lloyds. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman