DRN-2518940
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund a cash withdrawal he says 
he didnt make.
What happened
Mr G disputes a cash withdrawal from his account of £250 late on 2 August 2018. He says 
he received a text message from NatWest the next day saying he had an overdraft balance 
he didnt expect. And he then called and cancelled his card. He pursued this with the police 
and action fraud first but as he didnt get a resolution raised a fraud claim on 3 August 2019. 
He is also unhappy with the charges and interest that have built up on the account as a 
result of this payment.
NatWest said it wouldnt be refunding this money. The withdrawal was made when the chip 
on the genuine card was read and the PIN entered. There were no known instances of a 
chip being cloned and Mr G said he had the card with him. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the genuine 
card was used. And that there was no explanation of how someone could have taken Mr Gs 
card without him knowing and then replaced it. Mr G had also said he hadnt given his PIN to 
anyone or written it down. His last transaction with the card had been a few days earlier. He 
knew that Mr G had wanted to obtain the CCTV and was disappointed that the authorities 
hadnt obtained this. But even if that CCTV had been available and shown someone else 
using the card it wouldnt have explained how the PIN had been discovered. Mr G said hed 
been told that the PIN had been input incorrectly the first two times. But it was still unlikely a 
fraudster could have guessed this on the third occasion. So, he concluded that Mr G 
authorised the withdrawal which could have included allowing someone else known to him to 
make it.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that he was at home alone at the time waiting for his partner and 
his card was in his jacket hanging up. He had received a significant amount of money some 
time earlier and wouldnt need to have disputed this withdrawal. He said the PIN was 
guessable as it only had three different numbers. He was willing to take a lie detector test 
and that he might as well have lied and said he didnt have the card. There was no proof he 
withdrew the money and it was based on what was most likely to have happened. And 
NatWest should have taken action the moment he contacted it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as 
is the case here on with an overdraft, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states 
that a consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card. 
As Mr G says I wont be able to say exactly what happened here. But I will be thinking about 
what is most likely on a balance of probabilities and so how the payment was made and 
whether it was authorised.
Cash withdrawals like this do require the chip on the card to be read and the PIN to be 
entered. Im satisfied from the audit information provided that was how this payment was 
authenticated. I know Mr G has heard that cards can be cloned. But weve not seen 
evidence of the chip on a card being cloned for general use. As Ill also come onto Id expect 
a fraudster in possession of a card and PIN to make as much use of it as possible. Here the 
only evidence of fraudulent use we have is this specific withdrawal.
I need to think about whether someone else was able to make the withdrawal without him 
consenting as he says happened. Hes explained he was living with his partner and that he 
hadnt disclosed the PIN to anyone. He had the card at the time he reported the withdrawal. 
Its not impossible that someone else had got hold of his card at an earlier time. The 
information from NatWest shows he hadnt used it since 16:39 on 31 July 2018. 
If the person with the card was an unknown third party its difficult to see how and why his 
card would be replaced which would be very risky. And even in that scenario it wouldnt 
explain how that person got the PIN. If hed been shoulder-surfed Id have expected use of 
the card to start quickly given the risk of detection. That didnt happen here and as Ive 
mentioned there was one transaction from the account which took place at 22:36 at night. I 
think the chances of the PIN being guessed were very small even on a third attempt as Mr G 
thinks happened. There were no other attempts to make payments which would have been 
possible with the chip and PIN. And although this withdrawal took Mr Gs account into 
overdraft I understand that his limit then was £500 and so there were further available funds. 
So, for all these reasons I dont see an explanation that this withdrawal was carried out by an 
unknown third party to be a plausible one. 
Mr G is clear that no one known to him could have made the payment which would have 
required knowing the PIN. When he reported what happened he said he was living in an 
area away from his friends. I dont see how someone known to him could have likely made 
the withdrawal without his consent as there is no explanation of how the PIN would have 
been discovered. That leads me to conclude it most likely that he either authorised the 
payment or consented to someone else using his card and is so responsible for it.
I know Mr G is unhappy with the way the authorities dealt with this. I cant address that in a 
complaint about NatWest. But he thinks that it should have done more to deal with this at the 
time. It says that the first time he raised a fraud claim was in August 2019 and it had offered 
to raise a claim in December 2018. I cant fairly resolve that as I dont have any earlier call 
recordings before the one in August 2019. But I do know that Mr G thinks that the CCTV 
evidence wouldve been key. I have to say to him though that even when available CCTV 
evidence doesnt often help resolve the issues in a case like this. If this say showed a clear 
image of someone else taking out the money that would still leave the question about how 
the card and PIN was obtained and whether he consented to it. And I need to make my 
decision on the evidence that is available.
I would have expected NatWest to reverse any charges and interest if Mr G didnt authorise 
the payment. It didnt accept that was the case and so these continued to build up. As Ive 
said I dont have a reasonable basis to find that he shouldnt be held responsible for this 
payment. I cant then find that the related charges and interest were applied in error. It will be 
necessary for Mr G to discuss repayment of any borrowing with NatWest and I would expect it to take account of his financial circumstances. I understand it had passed his borrowing to 
its recoveries team by June 2019 and then stopped interest and charges.
I know that having pursued this matter for so long Mr G will be especially disappointed with 
my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman