DRN-3066269
The complaint and background
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK PLC didnt do enough to protect them from falling
victim to an investment scam.
Mr and Mrs M are represented in this complaint by their daughter, Mrs H. But for ease of
reading, Ill mostly refer to relevant acts and comments as being Mr and Mrs Ms.
Santander declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim for a refund of their stolen money. Whilst
sympathetic to the situation, the bank said, as the payment was made by cheque and was
therefore authorised, it is not responsible for the loss.
On 2 September 2021, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
1. Mr and Mrs M made a £10,000 cheque payment in September 2017, to a limited 
company, which Ill refer to as W. They seek recovery of the cheque payment, which 
they say was made as a result of an investment scam.
2. Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to 
protect customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when 
simply executing authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against 
the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment 
advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on investment fraud). So, the first 
question to resolve is whether this particular investment opportunity was a fraud or scam.
3. Here, as there does not appear to be any dispute that Mr and Mrs M have been the 
innocent victims of an investment scam, I only need to consider:
whether the bank could and should have intervened in the context of suspiciously 
unusual or uncharacteristic payments that are made by cheques (rather than 
electronically or via a plastic card, as is more usual nowadays);
whether any intervention would have made a difference, preventing some or all of 
Mr and Mrs Ms losses (causation); and if so
whether Mr and Mrs M should bear any responsibility for the loss such that it would 
be fair to reduce compensation proportionately (contributory negligence).
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
4. A cheque is a written order from an account-holder, instructing their bank to pay a 
specified sum of money to a named recipient. Cheques are not legal tender but are legal 
documents and their use is governed by the Bills of Exchange Act 1882 and the 
Cheques Acts of 1957 and 1992. They are not considered a payment service under the 
previous or present Payment Service Regulations (PSRs), so the provisions of those 
regulations do not apply to this type of payment instrument (or promissory note).
5. A banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the terms and 
conditions of the account contract (and of course the customers ancillary contract with 
the third-party payee, e.g. a retailer, creditor, supplier, etc). This position has long been 
recognised at common law. So, if it fails to comply with a validly-executed payment 
order, the bank could be held liable in damages  as could the drawer (i.e. payer) where 
the payment method used is a cheque. The starting position is that the bank is expected 
to process payments and withdrawals that a customer instructs it to make without undue 
delay. So, presented with a cheque drawn in accordance with the terms of the contract, a 
bank must honour the payment unless there are legal, regulatory or contractual grounds 
which may, in exceptional circumstances, allow refusal of a payment instruction.
6. Here it is accepted that the payment mandate was validly executed (authorised) as 
Mrs M herself had written, signed and issued the cheques to the named payee, W. At the 
time, Mrs M intended to pay W and there was no mistake made in the execution of the 
payment  Santander was complying with Mrs Ms instruction. So, under the terms and 
conditions of the account, Mr and Mrs M are presumed liable for any loss in the first 
instance.
7. Unlike electronic payments (including plastic-card transactions), a cheque cannot be 
screened at point of payment (which is the writing and issuing of the cheque). A drawers 
bank (in this case Santander) would only become aware of the request for payment once 
the cheque was paid in by the payee and sent to it for settlement by the receiving bank 
via clearing.
8. The cheque issued by Mrs M to W was cleared through what is known as the 2-4-6 
clearing cycle. This meant Santanders role on receipt of the cheque was firstly to 
examine the physical cheque for authenticity. This is an automated process, utilising 
fraud detection software designed to flag if there is something errant about the cheque. It 
is common ground that there were no issues with the physical cheque as it was a 
legitimate one written and signed by Mrs M herself. So, naturally, the system didnt flag 
the cheque for further manual scrutiny.
9. The next stage of clearing (again automated) would be for Santander to ensure sufficient 
funds were available and no stops had been placed on the cheque. I am satisfied that, at 
the time, there were no such concerns. After completion of all these checks, the account 
is debited and confirmation of the status of the cheque is sent to the clearing house. 
Whilst under the 2-4-6 cycle the cheque doesnt clear (and can still be returned unpaid) 
until close of business on day six, the drawers bank needs to decide by day three if it is 
returning a cheque unpaid. This is because the cheque amount is made available for 
withdrawal on the payees account by day four. And after day three, any recovery of 
funds would only be on a best-endeavours basis, as the payee bank has the right to 
decline an unpaid request.10. Santander could only return a cheque unpaid at this point  i.e. before day four  if it had 
permissible reasons to do so, such as:
cheque fraud, i.e. counterfeits, fraudulently altered or forged cheques;
insufficient funds in the account being drawn on;
a stop placed on the cheque for being lost or stolen;
a post-dated cheque;
a cheque dated more than six months earlier;
differing amounts and words;
missing or specimen signature mismatch;
cheque alteration not correctly validated; or
if it was sure the cheque was obtained fraudulently or was an attempt to 
misappropriate funds.
11. Santander has argued that, when trying to disrupt and detect fraud, systems and controls 
need to be proportionate to risk and take into account the wider impact on genuine 
customers transacting. It says the cheque-clearing process is all completed electronically 
with no direct bank or customer interaction and there was no window of opportunity for it 
to have intervened. And even if it could have, it doesnt agree that it ought to have 
intervened in these circumstances as the cheques were written in Mrs Ms own 
handwriting, the signature was a match, and funds were available in the account. It says 
it had no reason to question the cheques or Mrs Ms intentions to pay
.
12. Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Santander 
should fairly and reasonably:
have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
have taken proactive steps to: - identify and assist vulnerable consumers and 
consumers in vulnerable circumstances, including those at risk of financial 
exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in recent years by the British Bankers 
Associations February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment; or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
13. I dont consider there to be a material difference between the reasonable, good-practice 
requirements on firms when processing either cheques or electronic payments when it 
comes to monitoring accounts for the prevention of financial crime and having adequate 
systems and controls in place to prevent misappropriation of funds. I have seen nothing 
to persuade me that a bank should be less vigilant, or fail to carry out due diligence, just 
because the payment is by cheque. Indeed, it seems to me there is a reasonable window 
of opportunity to interrupt and investigate a potentially fraudulent cheque payment  that 
is, between receipt of the request for settlement from the payees bank (through the 
clearing house) and day three when the drawers bank provides an update on the status 
of the cheque.14. I accept there may be practical limits as to what a bank could reasonably do during this 
limited window of opportunity. However, that is more a question of causation (see 
below), which may limit or extinguish the banks liability even if we were to conclude that 
it could and should have acted on clear triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic activity.
15. What can be considered unusual or uncharacteristic clearly requires reference to 
common activity on an account. Ive looked back at the account statements as far as 
October 2016 to assess this. And whilst I accept Mr and Mrs M made payments by 
cheque on a regular basis, the cheque payment to W for £10,000 was significantly larger 
than the accounts typical activity. The statements show the vast majority of all other 
payments from the account, with the exception of a cheque payment in July 2017 for 
£2,500, were for modest amounts under £1,000. The cheque payment instruction for 
£10,000 was both for a large amount in the context of Mr and Mrs Ms usual account 
activity, and it represented a substantial increase in spending.
16. I also note that, at the time of the scam, Mr and Mrs M were in their eighties. It has long 
been accepted by the industry that that this age profile is one that is disproportionately 
targeted by scammers. Aside from being particularly susceptible as targets for 
investment fraud and other forms of financial crime, this age group at the present time 
more commonly uses cheques. So, I think in the particulars of this case, Mr and Mrs Ms 
age is a relevant factor that the bank should have been mindful of, as it materially 
increases the risk of loss due to fraud or scams.
17. Overall, based on Mr and Mrs Ms vulnerability due to their age; the cheque sum 
involved; and the spending being unusual and uncharacteristic compared with their usual 
account activity. I think there was enough here to alert a bank that was acting fairly and 
reasonably and looking out for its customers best interests. Santander ought reasonably 
to have had cause for concern and I think it could and should have intervened, e.g. by 
carrying out a few more manual checks or phoning Mr and Mrs M to double-check that 
everything was okay. So, in principle, I am satisfied that Santander missed an 
opportunity to protect Mr and Mrs M from harm. However, I dont think it is liable to pay 
them compensation because the banks acts or omissions were not the proximate cause 
of their losses  for the reasons below.
Causation
18. I understand why Mrs H feels that if Santander had intervened and provided scam 
warnings, it wouldve resulted in the prevention of Mr and Mrs Ms loss. But Im not 
persuaded this would have been the case. If, as I have concluded, Santander should 
have probed further about the payment or given a warning about the risks of scams 
associated with such investments, it would still have been for Mr and Mrs M  not 
Santander  then to satisfy themselves of the legitimacy of the investment. And based on 
the evidence available to me, I am persuaded, on balance, that they would still have 
gone ahead with the payment even if the bank had intervened. I say this because:
W was a limited company registered at Companies House, and there was limited 
information available at the time which would have raised concerns about its 
legitimacy.
There were no FCA warnings registered about any of the firms Mr and Mrs M thought 
they were dealing with at the time.
The representative for W was contactable, so had Mr or Mrs M gone back to them to 
raise questions, its likely they would have been given a persuasive and satisfactory 
response.The contact from W was not a cold call  Mr and Mrs M were aware their son had 
given their contact number to investment firms.
Mrs M had already been convinced the investment was legitimate and safe. She had 
been in regular contact with the scammer for several weeks, had numerous calls, 
received brochures, seen the firm had an online presence and had been invited 
without any hesitation to visit their offices. And more significantly despite being told 
not to invest by family members and being warned that no-one was capable of 
procuring the rate of return being offered, Mrs M still went ahead and issued the 
cheque. To my mind, this is clear evidence that she was fully taken in by the scam 
and unwilling to alter her conduct on the advice of her family. If Mrs M didnt listen to 
her family, there is no reason to suppose that she wouldve paid more attention to her 
bank.
19. I also think its important for me to highlight that once a cheque has been written, issued 
and presented for payment, it cannot be stopped by the drawer simply because they 
have regrets or second thoughts. So even if I were to accept (which to be clear I dont) 
that an intervention by Santander wouldve resulted in Mr and Mrs M taking a different 
course of action, for the reasons given above, I dont think this would have resulted in a 
different outcome as I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M would have been able to 
provide Santander with a permissible reason to return the cheque unpaid in the small 
window of opportunity it had before the cheque was settled through the clearing process. 
And as Ive explained above, any recovery after this point wouldve been on a best 
endeavours basis  and the decision to return any funds (if any remained) would sit with 
the beneficiary bank.
20. I do accept Mr and Mrs M have fallen victim to what can only be described as a cruel and 
callous scam. Im sorry to hear that the sum lost was a substantial amount of their 
pension savings and I can understand why they would like to be compensated for their 
loss. However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation they find themselves in, 
ultimately, Im not satisfied that an intervention or warning by the bank would have made 
any difference or prevented their loss. It therefore follows that I am unable to conclude 
that Santanders refusal to reimburse Mr and Mrs M was unfair or unreasonable despite 
its initial failings.
21. In light of the above, I do not need to go on to consider whether compensation should be
reduced for contributory negligence  as I am not intending to award any compensation.
my provisional decision
I realise that my intended decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, particularly given
that our investigator upheld the complaint in full. But for the reasons set out above, I am not
minded to uphold this complaint or make any award against Santander UK Plc.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander have not responded to my provisional findings. 
Mrs H responded on behalf of Mr and Mrs M. Understandably disappointed, she did not 
accept my provisional decision. In summary, she says, amongst other things, that:
Consideration has not been given to Mr and Mrs Ms vulnerability due to their age, 
and to simply say a bank couldnt prevent the loss as cheques are processed through 
an automated system is a weak argument and not sufficient grounds to not uphold 
this complaint.
 The automated systems used by the banks are unsecure and negligent. The cheque 
was handwritten very badly, and the system failed to flag up the irregular way in 
which Mrs M had written ten thousand in numbers. This should have been picked up 
and acted on, and at the very least contact shouldve been made with Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M were told when they initially approached the bank with their complaint, 
had the cheque been typed, they would have received a refund straight away. They 
are disappointed that Santander seems to be able to disburden itself of its 
responsibilities due to what seems to be a technicality about a handwritten cheque. 
Mr and Mrs M think Santander shouldve exercised greater due diligence in checking 
the handwritten cheque. 
Mr and Mrs M would not have gone ahead with the payment had Santander called 
and given appropriate scam warnings. Santander have acted negligently, by not 
checking the legitimacy of the payee and by failing to identify the possibility that 
Mr and Mrs M were being scammed. 
Mrs M only had one brief conversation with her family members about the 
investment. This was in the earlier stages before shed received any literature. Mrs H 
maintains that an intervention or warning by the bank would have made a difference. 
Had Santander contacted Mrs M and asked the right questions, she wouldve 
listened and changed her mind. The cheque would never have been processed and 
the loss would have been prevented. 
Mrs H disputes the finding that Mr and Mrs M were not victims of a cold call. There 
is lack of evidence to support this and therefore it should not be a contributing factor 
in the determination for not upholding the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how difficult and upsetting this situation has been not only for Mr and Mrs M but 
also their family. I do empathise with the circumstances they find themselves in and am 
mindful of the loss they have suffered as a result of a callous and cruel scam. But I can only 
ask Santander to refund Mr and Mrs Ms loss if I can fairly and reasonably conclude that its 
acts or omissions were the proximate cause of that loss. 
In my provisional decision Ive already taken account of Mr and Mrs Ms vulnerability due to 
their age  see paragraph 17 (above). 
I also realise how strongly Mrs H feels about the unreliability of the automated cheque 
processing systems used by the banking industry. I know she has made detailed 
submissions in relation to the quality and value of Mrs Ms handwritten cheque. I understand 
that she would like this case to be upheld to set a precedent; help other victims (who have 
used handwritten cheques) in their claims against their banks; and contribute towards 
bringing about a possible change to protect victims of authorised cheque fraud. But, here, 
there is no indication that Mrs M did not actually write/authorise the cheque  so this is not 
material to the outcome of this case; and we can only arbitrate on individual cases, not wider 
issues. In any event, Ive already concluded that Santander ought to have intervened based 
on: Mr and Mrs Ms vulnerability due to their age; the cheque sum involved; and the 
spending being unusual and uncharacteristic compared with their usual account activity.And whilst Santander could and should have intervened, it also simply isnt enough or fair to 
say that its failure to take these steps should mean a reimbursement of the loss. The 
question which follows is one of causation  which is whether it can be said that the failure 
was the proximate cause of loss. 
One of the points Mrs H makes is, had Santander made Mr and Mrs M aware that it was 
irregular to write and make a cheque payable to a different limited company to the one cited 
on the investment literature, Mrs M wouldnt have written the cheque. I appreciate the 
argument Mrs H is trying to make but, as Ive previously explained, unlike electronic 
payments a cheque cannot be screened at point of payment (which is the writing and issuing 
of the cheque). Ive not seen nor have I been provided with any evidence that there was 
interaction (in relation to this payment) between Santander and Mrs M before she wrote and 
issued the cheque. So it would not be reasonable to expect Santander to have known Mrs M 
was intending to write the cheque, and to say it shouldve provided warning to prevent the 
issuance of the cheque.
Santander first became aware of the request for payment after the cheque was paid in by 
the payee and sent to it for settlement by the payees bank. And at the point of settling the 
payment Santander would need a permissible reason to return the cheque unpaid  which 
on the face of it I dont think it reasonably had as the payment mandate was validly executed 
(authorised) as Mrs M herself had written, signed and issued the cheque to the named 
payee, W  a limited company registered at Companies House. There was limited 
information available at the time which would have raised concerns. 
I appreciate Mrs H maintains her belief that Santanders intervention wouldve resulted in a 
different outcome. But it still doesnt change the fact that the scammer had gained Mrs Ms 
trust to such an extent that I dont think she wouldve done anything different, even in the 
face of further questions from Santander about the nature of the cheque payment. Ive seen 
nothing that has changed my findings in this regard, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
 
I know how much this means to Mr and Mrs M so, for completeness, even if I were to accept 
(which to be clear I dont) that questions asked, and warnings provided by Santander, 
wouldve created enough doubt in Mrs Ms mind about the legitimacy of the investment, I still 
do not think she wouldve taken a different course of action. This is because once a cheque 
has been written, issued and presented for payment, it cannot be stopped by the drawer 
simply because they have regrets or second thoughts. Cheques are a bill of exchange, a 
promise to pay. If a bank returns a cheque unpaid after presentment, a legal cause of action 
can arise  both against the bank and the drawer of the cheque. So at this stage in the 
payment journey, Mrs M wouldve needed to prove to Santander, with supporting evidence, 
that the cheque had been obtained fraudulently. On balance, Im not persuaded it wouldve 
been possible to do this in the small window of opportunity that Santander had to return the 
cheque unpaid. The payee was a registered limited company; there were no FCA warnings 
against any of the firms Mr and Mrs M believed they were dealing with; and the 
representative was contactable. And any attempted recovery after this point wouldve been 
on a best endeavours basis only  and the decision to return any funds (if any remained) 
would sit with the payees bank. So, for these reasons, giving Mrs M the benefit of the doubt 
with regard to changing her mind, I still dont think this would have resulted in a different 
overall outcome.  I note Mrs Hs strong disagreement with my finding that Mr and Mrs M were not victims of a 
cold call. Ive thought about what she has said, and I accept there is nothing unambiguously 
linking the person they spoke to with the investment firm their son registered interest with. 
However, it is important to remember that we decide cases on the balance of probabilities 
(like a civil court), not beyond reasonable doubt (like a criminal court). From their earlier 
submissions to our service, I understand their contact with the scammer to have been 
initiated through a call intended for their son. And given their awareness that their contact 
details had been provided to an investment firm by their son, it seems more likely than not  
on balance  that the call was expected. But in any event, even if I were to accept it was a 
cold call, this wouldnt make an overall change to the outcome of the complaint. It would still 
have been for Mr and Mrs M  not Santander  to satisfy themselves of the legitimacy of the 
investment. And based on the other reasons Ive referred to in paragraph 18 of my 
provisional decision (see above), Im still not persuaded that any further enquiries or 
intervention on Santanders part wouldve made any difference or have ultimately prevented 
their loss. 
I realise my final decision will be a significant disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, especially 
after waiting patiently for my decision. I sympathise with their circumstances and am sorry 
theyve fallen victim to a scam. But having considered all the evidence and argument afresh 
in light of Mrs Hs response, it remains my conclusion that Santander cannot fairly be held 
liable for their loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and before in my provisional decision, I am not persuaded 
that Santander UK PLC acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard to the authorised cheque 
payment, so I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any award against the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman