DRN-3027170
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his motor insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc. It avoided his policy 
(treated it as though it had never existed) but Mr C was unaware of what it had done. He 
continued to pay for his policy and drive his vehicle. He only became aware of the avoidance 
after being stopped by the police. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr C arranged a policy via an intermediary insurer; X. AXA underwrote this policy 
and, after the policy began, asked Mr C, via X, to provide it more details. AXA told X that if 
these details werent provided within 14 days (the request was sent on 9 August 2019), X 
should cancel the policy. X later confirmed the policy had been cancelled because the 
information requested had not been received.
In the meantime, on 28 August 2019, Mr C arranged a policy via a broker; Y. This policy 
was also underwritten by AXA. Following some standard checks AXA asked Y if Mr C had 
declared to it, when arranging this current policy, that his previous policy had been 
cancelled. Y showed AXA its statement of facts document. This included a question Mr C 
had been asked about previous cancellations, and which hed answered no, confirming he 
hadnt had a previous policy cancelled.
AXA emailed Y and told it Mr Cs policy wouldnt have been agreed if he had declared the 
cancellation. AXA told Y it was intending to avoid Mr Cs policy. A few days later on 
30 September 2019 AXA wrote to Mr C stating it was avoiding the policy with immediate 
effect  this meant he was without cover and effectively had been since the policy was 
arranged on 28 August 2019. 
AXA sent this letter by recorded delivery. Mr C has said he didnt receive it. 
AXA also emailed confirmation, including a copy of the letter, to Y. However, AXA used an 
incorrect email address. Y didnt get the notification so it didnt attempt to contact Mr C to 
ensure he knew about the avoidance, nor did it stop taking premium payments from him.
In January 2020 Mr C was stopped by the police. It then became apparent that he had no 
insurance in place. Mr Cs vehicle was seized, points were added to his licence and he had 
to pay a fine. He also had to pay to get his vehicle back from the police and for 30 days of 
emergency third-party liability cover. 
Mr C felt that AXA was responsible for everything that had happened to him. He thought that 
AXA should have done more to make sure he was aware of the action it had taken to avoid 
his policy. AXA felt its letter sent to him by recorded delivery, which it was happy had been 
received at Mr Cs address, was sufficient. It noted it had used the wrong email address 
when updating Y but felt Y should have acted to follow up on a previous notification received 
where AXA had set out its intent to avoid the policy. It didnt feel it had done anything wrong 
or was in any way responsible for the position Mr C had found himself in with the police. 
When Mr C complained to us, our investigator considered the matter. But when the parties 
couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision. The findings 
of which were:
 I intend to uphold this complaint. And in doing so I need to comment on AXAs act of 
avoidance of the policy. Mr C didnt specifically complain about this. However, this service 
operates with an inquisitorial role, not just a reactionary one. In light of Mr Cs concerns 
about what happened as a result of the avoidance, and detail AXA has provided to us during 
our complaint process, which has given me cause to think its avoidance was unfair and 
unreasonable, this is an issue I must consider as part of this complaint. I also dont think 
AXA did enough to communicate its avoidance to Mr C, so Ive thought about what it needs 
to do to put right all the issues Mr C experienced as a result. Ive set out all my views below 
and both parties will have chance to reply before I make a final decision. 
Communication of the avoidance
This service considers that, particularly in respect of motor insurance policies, where having 
insurance is a legal requirement for drivers, an insurer which is seeking to cancel or avoid a 
policy has to be very clear with its policyholder about what it is doing. Most insurers do that 
by sending a few letters, sometimes with additional attempts to make contact by phone or 
email. Here AXA opted to send one letter to Mr C by recorded delivery and email a copy of 
that letter to Y, trusting Y would follow through on that confirmation of avoidance by also 
contacting Mr C and/or, at least refunding his premiums paid and cancelling his direct debit.
I accept that there is a certain sense of logic to what AXA did. But I think it failed Mr C by 
then not properly managing what it had done. So AXA did not, at the time it sent the 
recorded delivery letter, check it was received and signed for. It just assumed it was. AXA 
also sent the confirmation email to Y to a wrong address. Again AXA didnt follow up on this 
email once it had been sent, it just assumed it had been received. And whilst it had used a 
correct email address previously, which Y had responded from, AXA also didnt spot that 
when sending this important confirmation to Y, the wrong address had been used.
I understand that AXA thinks Y should have had better processes in place, that it should 
have done more to act on the previous notification AXA had sent even though it didnt 
receive the confirmation. But if AXA was delegating its role of clearly communicating with 
Mr C on this important matter to Y, then Ys failure to do more is really AXAs fault, as Y was 
acting as its agent. 
 
Often an insurer isnt seen as responsible for what happens to post after it leaves its care. 
But here AXA had chosen, rather than making multiple attempts to contact Mr C, on the 
basis that at least one letter should arrive with him, to send just one. Mr C says he didnt 
receive that, that he did not sign for it. AXA says it was signed for (it only checked this once 
Mr C had complained). But it hasnt been able to show us evidence of that check. So I dont 
actually know if AXAs letter did reach Mr Cs home or not. 
And I think its reasonable to say that if Mr C had been aware of the avoidance he wouldnt 
have kept driving and he would have questioned why his premiums were still being taken. 
Conversely, I think that if AXA hadnt failed Mr C in respect of its contact with the broker, 
Mr Cs premium would have been refunded and his direct debit would have stopped. I think 
hed have noticed this and made contact to find out what was going on.
 
Ive got no reason to doubt Mr Cs word that he did not receive AXAs one and only letter 
sent to him confirming it was avoiding his policy. And AXA gave Mr C no other reason to 
think there was an issue with his policy because his premium continued to be taken. On this 
occasion I dont think AXA did enough to clearly tell Mr C what it was doing and that as of 30 September 2019, he would not be insured by it for driving his car. This caused Mr C, until 
January 2020 when he was stopped by the police, to drive his car without insurance. In my 
view AXA needs to compensate Mr C for the repercussions of that.
Compensation
The only thing AXA can do to put things right is to compensate Mr C. Thats to say it needs 
to compensate him for both his financial and non-financial loss. Regarding the points on his 
licence its probable they cant be removed, but their likely financial impact on Mr Cs 
insurance premium can be compensated for. 
Mr Cs shown he was fined £300 and paid £190 to get his vehicle back from the polices 
seizure and storage agent. AXA should reimburse those sums to him, plus interest* from the 
date he paid them until settlement is made. They were paid respectively on 
14 February 2020 and 20 January 2020.
Mr C, to retrieve his vehicle and continue to use it, had to obtain emergency insurance 
cover. Hes shown that this cost him £350.67 for 30 days. The price of his policy with AXA 
worked out to be £46.39 a month over the whole year. I cant be sure what Mr C would have 
been charged for new cover if hed been reasonably made aware of the avoidance and 
found a replacement policy. But he wouldnt have been under such a time pressure or so 
emotionally stressed as he was when he had to urgently arrange cover in order to get his 
vehicle back from the police. I think its reasonable to say AXA should compensate Mr C for 
having had an extra cost by paying him £304.28 (the difference between the emergency 
cover cost and the monthly cost for the avoided policy), plus interest* from 17 January 2020, 
the date the emergency cover was paid for, until settlement is made.
   
Having to declare the points will have an impact on the price Mr C will have to pay for 
insurance for five years after his licence was endorsed. The endorsement was added in 
January 2020. After he arranged the emergency cover he took a new yearly policy in 
February 2020. So it will only be at renewal in February 2025 when hell most likely no 
longer need to declare those points to new/renewing insurers. AXA needs to compensate 
him for the likely increased cost he will incur in the intervening years. 
Determining fair compensation for this type of loss is not an exact science  I cant know 
exactly what Mr C will be charged in future years. But I am aware that the impact of this type 
of endorsement on the price insurers charge decreases with each year that passes since the 
licence was endorsed. And I know that without the endorsement and without any avoidance 
to affect the price of premium, Mr Cs cost for cover was £556.67. Mr C has shown that the 
cost of one years cover, commencing after the temporary cover ended in February 2020 
was £650. So there is about £100 difference which will decrease year-on-year (although 
Mr Cs overall premium may not because other factors may affect the price as time goes on). 
So Im going to say AXA should pay Mr C £250 compensation to account for the likely 
impact the penalty points will have on his insurance cost over the coming years. 
I accept that finding out, whilst dealing with the police having been pulled over, that he did 
not have insurance was extremely upsetting and worrying for Mr C. I also accept that he was 
caused incredible inconvenience  he was detained by the police whilst enquiries were 
made, his vehicle was seized which he had to arrange to retrieve, he had to get home from 
the location of the seizure and he had to find emergency insurance cover. Im minded to say 
AXA should pay him £500 to address his distress and inconvenience because of that.
The avoidance itselfMr C had a policy cancelled mid-term. He accepts that and that he should have told AXA 
about this. But just because a policyholder fails to tell an insurer something doesnt 
necessarily mean the insurer, when it finds out the situation was misrepresented to it, can 
fairly and reasonably avoid the policy.
When seeking to avoid a policy this service expects insurers to be able to show that, but for 
the misrepresentation which occurred, the policy wouldnt have been put in place. Here AXA 
showed us an extract from its underwriting criteria. As this is commercially sensitive 
information I dont want to reproduce its exact content in my decision. But, having seen it, 
I dont think it supports AXAs claim that, but for Mr Cs misrepresentation, it wouldnt have 
offered him this policy. Underwriting criteria like this is designed to show what AXA will or 
wont do in certain situations. Effectively it helps AXAs representatives make decisions 
about whether or not to offer cover, or to inform the technology programming which 
determines online applications. So it provides a snapshot of the considerations and resultant 
decisions that occur at the point a policy is applied for. Such criteria are not usually written 
from the perspective of reviewing them from a position after the policy has begun ie once a 
misrepresentation has occurred and in order to determine whether or not a policy application 
would be declined if a certain situation had been misrepresented to the insurer. I know this is 
the way AXA has suggested that the criteria provided to us should be read. But I find that 
illogical. 
I also bear in mind that many insurers wont find all instances of mid-term cancellation 
unacceptable to them. Whereas most will not be prepared to offer cover where a previous 
policy has been avoided  no matter the reason for the avoidance. Again without divulging 
the specific content of the extract AXA has sent to us, the detail within it, viewed in this 
context, further satisfies me that this guide is written from the perspective of deciding 
whether or not to offer cover at the point of sale. The guide does not support AXAs stated 
position that, if Mr C had told it of the mid-term cancellation, it would never have offered him 
the cover which began on 28 August 2019.
In this case its only fair that AXA removes the record of the avoidance from Mr Cs 
insurance history. It should also reinstate Mr Cs policy to the point the emergency cover 
began which was on the evening of 17 January 2021. It should mark it, at that point, as 
being cancelled by Mr C. Whilst Mr C paid monthly premium payments to the broker, it isnt 
clear to me what happened to these payments  if AXA ever received them or if they were 
refunded to Mr C. For AXA to reinstate the cover as directed, it will need to have had 
payment for that period.
Ive already accounted for the likely cost Mr C had in obtaining emergency and then more 
permanent cover above. Ive also accounted for the cost of future premiums, but in respect 
of the avoidance, as Im making AXA remove it, it will be as though it never happened, so 
this isnt something Mr C will have to keep declaring. 
In respect of how Mr C was affected personally by the avoidance, I dont intend to award 
much compensation. Mr C wasnt caused distress or worry by the avoidance. But he has told 
us that he found it difficult, when the emergency cover ended, to find an annual policy. That 
doesnt surprise me and I think that was most likely caused by the record of the avoidance. 
The licence endorsement and previous cancellation (given the type of cancellation in 
question) would be more likely, I think on balance, to affect the premiums charged rather 
than the insurers decision to offer cover. I think AXA should pay Mr C £100 compensation 
for the inconvenience its unfair and unreasonable avoidance caused him.
Mr C said he was happy with the decision. AXA said it felt it was unfair. 
In summary it said:The legal requirement is to send the voidance letter to the policyholders last known 
address, which is what it did, so it cant be criticised just because it didnt follow what this 
service might feel to be best practice. 
The recorded delivery letter must have been signed for, otherwise it would have been 
returned to it.
It had evidenced it was signed for  its Royal Mails fault this is no longer available.
Mr C didnt complain about the avoidance and the ombudsman has accepted that. 
The policy explains the acceptance criteria (that there hasnt been a previous policy 
cancellation) and what may happen if incorrect answers are given.
Mr C accepts he gave incorrect information so that alone is grounds for it to avoid the 
policy.
Everything that happened would never have occurred if Mr C hadnt given it this incorrect 
information.
Its underwriting criteria does confirm it would decline this risk (and that is supported by 
the policy documents).
It shouldnt have to compensate Mr C because he gave it incorrect information  that 
would be unfair on its other policyholders who provide it with correct answers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA is well aware that this service operates under a fair and reasonable remit. That we 
expect insurers to deal fairly and reasonably with their policyholders. And if they dont and 
the policyholder suffers as a result, then we will uphold complaints against them. Here, as 
explained provisionally, I think AXA could and should have done more to ensure Mr C 
received this notification  having chosen to send only one letter, it should have checked that 
had been signed for shortly after it had been sent. Instead AXA only checked after Mr C had 
complained. And when it did, it didnt keep a screen shot or copy of what it had found. The 
fact the evidence is not available is AXAs fault, not Royal Mails. Because the evidence isnt 
available, I dont know if AXA is correct in telling us what it saw. The fact the letter hasnt 
been returned isnt sufficient for me to say Mr C most likely received it. AXA has been unable 
to evidence to my satisfaction that it communicated the avoidance to Mr C.
I explained provisionally why I was making a decision about AXAs act of avoidance. I also 
explained that Mr C wouldnt have known, when choosing not to complain about the 
avoidance, that the issue of whether or not an insurer can avoid a policy is not as cut and 
dried as whether or not incorrect information has been given. AXA is aware of the relevant 
legislation. It is also aware of what it says; in order to avoid a policy it is not enough that a 
policyholder gave an incorrect answer  the insurer also has to show that the incorrect 
answer caused it to offer a policy it otherwise would not have done.
In that respect what the policy documents set out, the warnings they give  are not relevant. 
The key evidence is what the insurers internal processes and procedures set out it will do if 
any piece of key information asked of the prospective policyholder turns out to be wrong. In 
this instance AXAs underwriting criteria doesnt say it will always, if the prospective 
policyholder has had a policy cancelled mid-term, decline to offer cover. The underwriting 
shows that for certain types of mid-term cancellation it will always decline cover. The type of 
mid-term cancellation that Mr C failed to disclose to AXA was not of the type AXAs 
underwriting criteria says it will always decline.  
Mr C should have given AXA correct information, theres no doubt about that. But AXA also 
needed to ensure that it conducted itself in line with relevant legislation and good practice, thereby ensuring it treated Mr C fairly and reasonably. The difficult time and extra financial 
costs Mr C experienced were not because of his failure to give correct information  rather 
they were caused by AXAs unfair and unreasonable act of avoiding his policy, coupled with 
its failure to properly communicate this to him. 
Having considered AXAs objections to my provisional decision, they havent changed my 
view on this complaint as provisionally stated. My provisional view, along with my final 
findings set out above, now form the conclusion of this my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to pay Mr C:
£300 as reimbursement of his fine, plus interest* from 14 February 2020 until settlement 
is made.
£190 as reimbursement of the seize and store charge, plus interest* from 
20 January 2020 until settlement is made.
£304.28 as reimbursement of the additional premium paid for emergency cover, plus 
interest* from 17 January 2020, the date the emergency cover was paid for, until 
settlement is made.  
£250 as compensation for the likely cost of future insurance on account of the driving 
charge applied by the police.
£600 total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused both by not 
effectively communicating the avoidance to Mr C and because the avoidance was unfair.
Im also minded to require AXA to:
Remove the record of the avoidance from its internal records and any external database.
Reinstate Mr Cs cover until 17 January 2020, but, taking into account my comments 
above, it may apply a charge to Mr C for that cover.
Mark the policy as having been cancelled by Mr C as of 17 January 2020.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr C, it should tell them how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman