DRN-2839654
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain TSB Bank plc treated them unfairly when they understood theyd 
converted their mortgage permanently from repayment to interest only terms and TSB said 
later the change had only been temporary.
What happened
In 2017 Mrs H and Mr H took out a repayment mortgage with TSB Bank plc for around 
£675,000 over a term of 16 years. They had an initial tracker interest rate that was due to 
end in February 2019.
In 2018 they ran into financial difficulties with their business and agreed a concession with 
TSB to switch their mortgage to interest only terms for a period of six months from February 
2018. This was extended until February 2019. 
In January 2019 Mrs H and Mr H applied for a new fixed interest rate product through their 
broker. They say their application led to their mortgage moving permanently onto interest 
only terms. 
In September 2020 TSB told Mrs H and Mr H theyd overlooked that the agreement to switch 
to interest only had been temporary and that with effect from November 2020 theyd be 
moved back onto repayment terms. Mrs H and Mr H said they couldnt afford to go back to 
repayment terms and had no repayment vehicle to pay off their mortgage. TSB said theyd 
consider extending the mortgage term if the mortgage moved back onto repayment terms 
with effect from November 2020.  
Mrs H and Mr H felt TSB had refused to discuss their position reasonably and been 
aggressive in their approach. They were unhappy theyd been chased for payment of arrears 
that accrued through continuing to make interest only payments. Their credit file was 
adversely affected, and they suffered a great deal of distress worrying about their mortgage 
situation. 
To put things right Mrs H and Mr H wanted TSB to correct their records to show theyve had 
an interest only mortgage since January 2019; their credit history corrected so no missed 
payments appear; compensation for the stress theyve gone through; and compensation for 
the financial loss they will suffer in the future because of their credit history.
TSB said theyd made a mistake in removing a block that prevented Mrs H and Mr H taking 
out a new interest rate product. The product switch had gone ahead as if Mrs H and Mr H 
had an interest only mortgage. And TSB had only realised their error when they were 
reviewing Mrs H and Mr Hs mortgage following two periods of payment deferral theyd had 
in line with Financial Conduct Authority guidance relating to the coronavirus pandemic. 
TSB said theyd do the following to resolve Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint:
Rework Mrs H and Mr Hs account on the basis theyd had a repayment mortgage 
from March 2019 to May 2021 and credit their account with the difference in 
payments. This would leave around £4,777 arrears from a payment missed in 
February 2021.
Arrange to amend Mrs H and Mr Hs credit files so arrears between November 2020 
and May 2021 no longer appeared. 
Waive the early repayment charge (ERC) of around £17,390 that would be due if Mrs 
H and Mr H decided to move their mortgage to another lender since TSB shouldnt 
have allowed the product switch to take place. 
Pay Mrs H and Mr H £750 to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience 
they suffered as a result of what had happened.
Mrs H and Mr H didnt accept TSBs proposals. They maintained theyd agreed a permanent 
switch to interest only with TSB and couldnt afford to go back to repayment terms. They 
didnt accept TSBs conclusion theyd been treated fairly on the phone when theyd been 
discussing their situation with TSB. They didnt accept they were in any arrears as they 
hadnt missed any payments. And they didnt think TSBs offer of compensation of £750 was 
enough as theyd been worrying about the situation for many months. It had been going on 
during the pandemic when theyd had additional worries working from home as well as family 
concerns, and their health had been affected. 
Our investigator thought the steps TSB had proposed to resolve Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint 
were fair and didnt uphold their complaint. Mrs H and Mr H didnt accept our investigators 
view, so their complaints been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the very difficult time Mrs H and Mr H have had and I acknowledge their 
financial situation remains difficult. However, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for 
Mrs H and Mr H, I think the proposals TSB have made to resolve their complaint are fair in 
all the circumstances. 
Theres no dispute Mrs H and Mr H originally took out a repayment mortgage and arranged 
with TSB, as a temporary concession, to pay just the interest on their mortgage until 
February 2019.
Im not aware of the detail of any discussions Mrs H and Mr H had with their broker. I 
acknowledge the brokers understanding was they had an interest only mortgage. I note the 
paperwork relating to the product switch referred to Mrs H and Mr H having an interest only 
mortgage as well. But the brokers confirmed the application Mrs H and Mr H were making in 
January 2019 was to switch their interest rate product. The application coincided with their 
original interest rate coming to an end. And the offer TSB made was for a change of 
mortgage product, not a change in mortgage type. So, on balance, I dont think theres an 
agreement the terms of the mortgage were being converted permanently to interest only 
terms. 
I think some of the information in the documents might have alerted Mrs H and Mr H that 
something had gone wrong. The interest only declaration they signed, and the product 
switch offer both referred to them using a second property/buy to let to repay their mortgage. 
As far as I am aware, Mrs H and Mr H have no means of repaying their mortgage in this 
way. Having said that, and as TSB have acknowledged, TSB made an error in removing a block 
on allowing Mrs H and Mr H to take a new product at this time. And they failed to notice the 
error until they reviewed Mrs H and Mr Hs account once their pandemic payment deferral 
period had come to an end in around September 2020. 
I can understand it will have come as a shock to Mrs H and Mr H that TSB were telling them 
their mortgage would revert to repayment terms if theyd understood a permanent switch to 
interest only had happened, and theyd been paying only interest for such a long time. So, I 
think its right TSB accept responsibility for putting things right for Mrs H and Mr H. Having 
considered TSBs proposals carefully, I think they are fair and reasonable.
The mortgage should have reverted to repayment terms in March 2019. TSB have offered to 
credit Mrs H and Mr Hs account with the payments they should have made from then 
onwards had TSB told them at the time.
Mrs H and Mr H dispute the arrears TSB said would exist based on their calculations. Id 
encourage the parties to discuss this further, if they havent already, so Mrs H and Mr H 
understand how TSB arrive at their arrears figure with a view to reaching an agreement 
about that. 
TSB said theyd arrange for Mrs H and Mr Hs credit files to be adjusted to reflect the correct 
position. I think thats fair. Mrs H and Mr H think theyll be impacted financially in the future 
because of their credit files. But I havent seen any evidence of that - or of any financial 
impact theyve already suffered - so I dont make any finding about that. 
I know Mrs H and Mr H are unhappy with the level of compensation TSB offered them for 
distress and inconvenience. Theyve known since around September 2020 that TSB planned 
to move them back onto repayment terms. TSB chased them for arrears and it wasnt until 
around May 2021 that TSB made proposals about how to resolve their complaint. 
In the meantime, Mrs H and Mr H have continued to struggle financially and had additional 
difficulties due to the impact of the pandemic on their and their families lives. I can 
understand it has been a worrying time for them. In addition, Mrs H and Mr H feel TSB 
provided poor service when they tried to discuss things with them. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H and Mr H have said when thinking about the offer of 
compensation TSB made of £750. Considering everything, I think that is a fair sum to 
compensate Mrs H and Mr H for the distress and inconvenience theyve suffered as a result 
of whats happened.
Mrs H and Mr H argue that if they are forced to seek an alternative lender, theyll incur 
additional costs of around £5,000 in broker and arrangement fees. I think they would have to 
incur those costs at some point even if things hadnt gone wrong, either when they decided 
to move or when they re-mortgaged at the end of the product term. So, I dont think its fair to 
ask TSB to pay them as well as agreeing to waive the ERC.
Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. But Id encourage 
the parties to continue to communicate to see what help TSB is able to offer Mrs H and Mr H 
given their ongoing financial difficulties. And Mrs H and Mr H may find it useful to seek 
independent financial advice as well.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman