DRN-3208404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about AWP P&C SAs settlement of their travel insurance claim. My 
references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an annual travel insurance policy, insured by AWP. On 1 March 2020 they 
left the UK for a long-haul destination. On 8 March 2020 they collected a motorhome 
planning to tour within the relevant country, Mr and Mrs S say the costs had been pre-paid. 
They were due to return the motorhome on 19 April 2020 and return to the UK on 20 April 
2020.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad. On 23 March 2020 the FCDO advised all British travellers to return from abroad 
immediately.
On 23 March 2020 the government of the relevant country announced a national lockdown 
from 25 March due to Covid-19. Mr and Mrs S say from 23 March they were prevented from 
travelling due to the restrictions. They had to stay in the motorhome in one location on a 
holiday park. Their planned flight was cancelled and they had to extend their stay until 
25 April 2020. They claimed for:
The cost of effectively having cut short their holiday for 30 of their 52 planned days.
Additional cost for the motorhome and holiday park from 19 to 25 April 2020.
Cost for extra medication for Mrs S pre-existing condition due to the extended stay 
and cost of mediation for two new medical conditions Mrs S had on the trip.
Mr and Mrs S holiday package provider said it had paid costs for their return flight, three 
additional nights for the motor home and holiday park and the UK car hire for Mr and Mrs S 
returning home.
AWP said the circumstances of Mr and Mrs S claim for their holiday costs and costs of 
Mrs S pre-existing illness medication werent covered by the policy terms. It paid the other 
medication costs. It also paid Mr and Mrs S the delayed departure benefit under the policy.
Mr and Mrs S complained to us. They said AWP was unfair not to pay the costs as although 
the policy didnt cover Covid-19 it wasnt excluded. They want AWP to pay all the 
outstanding costs theyd claimed and £280 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience in making the complaint (which they calculated at an hourly rate for their 
time).
Our investigator said AWPs settlement of the claim was fair. As Mr and Mrs S had a 
package trip he suggested they may want to contact the relevant trade association to see if 
the travel provider should pay any more costs. 
Mr and Mrs S disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. In summary they said:
Covid-19 was an exceptional situation so it was unfair for AWP to just look at the 
policy wording to decline their costs.
The policy covered curtailment due to compulsory quarantine on the orders of a 
treating doctor, which they thought was their situation as when the relevant countrys 
government ordered lockdown it would have done so on doctors/health experts 
advice.
As they didnt know how long their extended stay would be Mrs S bought more 
medication for her pre-existing condition to prevent her from becoming ill and 
needing medical intervention.
They contacted their travel providers trade association who told them the travel 
provider didnt need to pay any further costs and said travel insurance was to cover 
all unexpected events that were outside of the associations remit.
AWP had paid benefit under the travel delay section of the policy but their scheduled 
return flight was cancelled, not delayed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say that an insurer should handle claims promptly 
and fairly and that they also shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive read and considered all Mr and Mrs S comments in making my decision and 
summarised their key points above. Im sorry to disappoint them but I think AWP fairly 
settled the claim. Ill explain why.
I understand the situation which Mr and Mrs S found themselves in was completely 
unprecedented and that from 23 March 2020 they had a very different holiday than theyd 
planned, rather than touring extensively they had to stay in a holiday park in one small town.  
I also understand that when Mr and Mrs S bought this insurance policy the circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen by either consumers or insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. AWPs 
obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs S are limited by the terms, conditions and 
exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Holiday costs
Mr and Mrs S policy under the heading Cancellation or curtailment provides for AWP to pay 
certain irrecoverable unused costs if Mr and Mrs S necessarily have to cancel the projected 
journey before commencement or curtail it before completion as a result of one of the 
following listed insured reasons:
1 The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of 
a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy 
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security 
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your 
travelling companion.
2 The death, serious injury or illness of, A a close relative, or 
B the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or journey destination, or
C a dependent business partner; of you or your travelling companion which necessitates 
the presence of the person concerned.
3 Hijack.
4 Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5 Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request of an 
emergency service requires your presence.
Mr and Mrs S didnt curtail (cut short) their holiday before completion in that they didnt return 
to the UK earlier than planned, so they are claiming for effective curtailment because they 
say their holiday was cut short as they couldnt tour as planned. There are some  
circumstances when we may say that even though a policyholder hasnt returned home  
early its fair for an insurer to consider a trip has been effectively curtailed. 
Even if I was persuaded that in these circumstances Mr and Mrs S trip had been effectively 
curtailed the reason for the effective curtailment isnt an insured event listed by the policy.
Mr and Mrs S say as the policy covers curtailment due to compulsory quarantine on the 
orders of a treating doctor it should cover a national lockdown. Theyve referred to a 
dictionary definition for quarantine which says 1. a period of isolation imposed on voyagers, 
travellers, sick persons or infected ship that might spread contagious disease. 2. to impose 
such isolation.
But theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs S were in isolation. Theyve said they were able to 
walk in the town they were at and go to the supermarket. Mr and Mrs S say we need to take 
into account the complexity of the controls needed for Covid-19. But the issue is there is no 
evidence that they were in compulsory quarantine even on the dictionary definition theyve 
provided. 
So I think AWP acted fairly in saying the circumstances of the claim for the costs of the days  
Mr and Mrs S werent able to tour wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Theres no cover under the policy terms for costs due to an enforced stay so AWP fairly 
declined the claim for the additional motorhome and holiday park costs. The travel provider 
paid some of those costs and I note the trade association told Mr and Mrs S the travel 
provider doesnt have to pay any more costs. But that doesnt mean AWP has to pay the 
costs as theres no cover for the costs under the policy terms and no basis on which I can 
reasonably say AWP must pay those costs.  
Mr and Mrs S say the association told them travel insurance was for all unexpected costs. 
But as Ive explained above no insurance policy covers every eventuality, insurers can  
decide what level of risk they wish to accept and AWPs obligations under its contract with 
Mr and Mrs S are set out in the policy. 
Medication costs for Mrs S pre-existing medical condition
Under the medical expenses section the policy specifically excludes cover for claims for: 
Medication you are taking before and which you will have to continue taking during 
your trip (except in the event of accidental loss or damage to that medication).
I note all Mr and Mrs S say about why she had to get more medication and I understand her 
situation. She had to get more medication because of circumstances outside of her control. 
But as the policy specifically says AWP wont cover medication Mrs S was taking before and 
which she had to continue taking during the trip I dont think I can reasonably say AWP must 
cover those medication costs.Travel delay benefit
Under the travel delay section of cover the policy says:
What you are covered for
1 Delayed departure or arrival
a If the departure of the aircraft, train or sea vessel in which you have arranged to 
travel is delayed for at least 8 hours from the departure time specified in the travel 
itinerary, or if the arrival of the aircraft, train or sea vessel at destination is at least 8 
hours later than the time specified in the travel itinerary, due to strike or industrial 
action, disruption, terrorism (including cyber terrorism), adverse weather conditions, 
or mechanical breakdown of the aircraft, train or sea vessel.
The insurer will pay £25 for each complete 8 hour period of delay commencing from 
the original booked departure time or arrival time specified in the travel itinerary up to 
£100.
As Mr and Mrs S scheduled flight was cancelled then under the policy terms there is no 
cover for the benefit. However, AWP has decided in the circumstances of the cancellation 
the flight was in effect delayed for more than 8 hours so its paid the maximum benefit of 
£100. I think AWP acted fairly in paying the benefit outside of the policy terms.
Overall
For the above reasons I think AWPs settlement of Mr and Mrs S claim was fair and 
reasonable. It doesnt need to pay the other outstanding costs claimed and theres no basis 
for me to say AWP needs to pay Mr and Mrs S compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman