DRN-2834617
The complaint
The complaint is about a joint mortgage that Miss B and Mr W held with UCB Home Loans 
Corporation Ltd (now part of Nationwide Building Society) between 2000 and 2006.  They 
believe UCB over-charged the interest on the mortgage during the time they had it.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision last month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I 
intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
What prompted Miss B and Mr W to bring this complaint is a linked complaint against a 
claims management company (CMC).  It seems the interaction between the consumers and 
the CMC created the expectation of a claim for over-charged interest by UCB. It seems that 
claim came to nothing (hence the complaint against the CMC) but it left Miss B and Mr W 
with an expectation that UCB might have over-charged them. I understand why they might 
want to pursue that expectation to a conclusion, but theyve done so without bringing any 
evidence to support the allegation of over-charging. 
Whats needed here, in effect, is a forensic check of the mortgage accounts by an 
independent party. If Miss B and Mr W have a real and substantive belief (rather than just a 
manufactured expectation) that UCB over-charged them, it is for them to arrange for the 
accounts to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent party, and the evidence of 
the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as the basis for this 
one. I make the latter point because UCB would need to be presented with the finished audit 
first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond to it.
Miss B and Mr W would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that 
were to their detriment, we would then expect UCB to reimburse any reasonable cost of the 
audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as 
things stand, theres no evidence that could persuade me that Miss B and Mr W were 
overcharged on the mortgage they held between 2000 and 2006.
I gave the parties until 31 May 2021 to comment on my provisional decision; both have done 
so sooner. Nationwide asked why I had issued findings on the merits rather than refer the 
case back to an investigator to look into first. Miss B responded expressing frustration at my 
having offered them hope in my jurisdiction decision, only then take it away in my provisional 
decision on the merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive no reason to depart from my provisional decision. But I will pick up on 
the comments from the parties, starting with what Miss B said.
Ms B said, and I quote): 
Why would the company themselves tell me even wen they failed to offer the original figure 
of more than 10000 that we are entitled to 4000 ish but they dont deal with anything less 
than 4000 if we are not ?
Ive checked and the company Miss B was referring to in that comment wasnt UCB; it was 
the CMC. I need to emphasise that this complaint is about UCB, and not about the CMC, so 
I can offer no comment on what might have motivated the CMC to say what it did. But it 
rather throws into focus what I said the provisional decision about a manufactured 
expectation of an entitlement to compensation having been created, but not backed up by 
any substantive evidence.
I do understand Miss Bs sense of frustration that, having received a decision from me that 
we can consider the merits of the complaint, she and Mr W then learned that I wasnt 
persuaded it should be upheld. Unfortunately, establishing that we have jurisdiction to deal 
with a complaint is a separate matter from what we then do with it on the merits. It may seem 
like a technicality; its actually a necessity, but Im sorry for the upset this has caused her 
and Mr W.
As to what Nationwide said, our rules provide for a two- stage case-handling process, and 
whilst its customary for the two stages to be conducted by different people (an investigator 
first and then by an ombudsman if required) the rules dont require that. Either an 
investigator or an ombudsman can investigate a complaint, but only an ombudsman can 
decide it. The judgement on whether to return a case to an investigator to address the merits 
or to do so myself is mine to make, and Id expect Nationwide to know that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman