DRN-1728207
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo Finance, (Motonovo) 
wont allow him to voluntarily terminate his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr B financed the purchase of a second-hand car through a hire 
purchase agreement with Motonovo. 
Ive briefly summarised the history of what happened:
In February 2017 and again in September 2017 he experienced some faults with the car. On 
both occasions Mr B returned the car to the supplying garage. It arranged for the repairs to 
be carried out under warranty. It did not offer its own repair service, so it arranged for a third 
party garage to repair the car. For ease, I will refer to that garage as garage R.
Towards the end of October 2017, garage R told Mr B the car was ready for collection. But 
Mr B says a warning light came on as he drove it home so two days later garage R collected 
the car to carry out further tests. The mechanic said the car needed a new gearbox and that 
this wasnt included under the terms of his warranty. Mr B complained to Motonovo, wanting 
it to pay for the repair. Because the fault had occurred more than six months after the car 
had been supplied, Motonovo said it would need evidence  in the form of an independent 
report  to show that the fault was present or developing at the point of sale before it would 
pay for any repair or accept Mr Bs rejection of the car.
Mr B obtained an independent report, but Motonovo said this didnt show the fault was 
present or developing at the point of sale, so it wasnt its responsibility to pay for repair. But 
in April 2018, when Mr B told Motonovo the garage had taken back its courtesy car, 
Motonovo attempted to mediate between the parties. Garage R said it would source a 
second-hand gear box at a cost of £1,400. If Mr B paid the first £500 of repair costs, the 
supplying garage and garage R agreed to pay £900 between them.
In July 2018, Mr B phoned Motonovo to tell it that he still hadnt had his car back. Motonovo 
again attempted to mediate. Garage R said it couldnt source a second-hand gearbox. It 
asked Mr B to collect the car and return the courtesy car.
Over the next few weeks, the relationship between Mr B and garage R broke down. 
Garage R sent various messages to Mr B demanding the courtesy car is returned. The 
garage then collected the car, without telling Mr B.
At the end of August 2018, garage R told Mr B he would be charged £25 a day until he 
collected his car. The following month it said it would tell the council about the car, 
presumably with a view to getting it to remove it. Some time after this, garage R closed for 
business, and Mr B now cant locate the car. He asked Motonovo to help, but it said this was 
Mr Bs responsibility.
Mr B has continued to make payments under the terms of the hire purchase agreement  
although he hasnt had use of the car since September 2017. In August 2018 he said he 
couldnt afford the car anymore, but that he was managing to meet the payments and pay for 
taxis and public transport. But in January 2019 he had to pay for an overseas family funeral, 
and he began to experience financial difficulties. 
Motonovo set out Mr Bs options  voluntary termination, voluntary surrender or a return of 
goods order. He told Motonovo that he wanted to voluntarily terminate the agreement. But 
Motonovo said it couldnt follow its voluntary termination process as the location of the car 
wasnt known - so it couldnt be collected and inspected.
Our investigator didnt conclude that there were grounds for Mr B to be able to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement. But she thought it was unfair that hes paid for a car that he 
doesnt have whilst being in financial difficulties. She recommended Motonovo should 
remove all interest from the agreement and that Mr B should repay only the cost of the car.
Mr B agreed with our investigators conclusions.
Motonovo didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
It cant offer a reduced settlement when Mr B is no longer in possession of the car.
Theres no evidence of what Mr B has done to try to locate the car, for example 
involving the police.
Mr B needs to return the car to voluntarily terminate the agreement.
Motonovo is not responsible for Mr B not being in possession of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B complained to Motonovo in November 2017. He said the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. Motonovo did not uphold Mr Bs complaint and he referred it to 
this service. One of our ombudsmen decided that this wasnt a complaint we could 
investigate because it had been referred to us too late. So I cant comment on whether 
I think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
I can only make a decision on Mr Bs current complaint, which is that Motonovo will not allow 
him to voluntarily terminate the hire purchase agreement. The terms of the agreement 
require Mr B to return the car to Motonovo if he wants to voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
Mr B says he cant return the car, so I agree with Motonovo that the agreement cant be 
terminated early. 
Mr B has continued, until recently, to maintain his monthly payments under the terms of the 
agreement. In August 2018 he told us he couldnt afford to pay for the car anymore because 
of all the problems, but he confirmed he wasnt in financial difficulties. But in January 2019 
he told Motonovo he was struggling financially. Unfortunately, in or around June 2019, Mr B 
lost his job, so his financial position worsened. 
Mr B continued to meet the repayments from his savings until April 2020 when lockdown 
made his financial position even worse. Motonovo agreed to suspend payments until June.
I dont find it fair that Mr B is continuing to pay for a car that he hasnt had use of since 
September 2017 whilst having experienced financial difficulties for the last 18 months. 
Motonovo says it cant offer a reduced settlement because Mr B doesnt have the car.
I accept that Mr B hasnt strictly fulfilled his obligations under the terms of the agreement. He 
is required under section 6 to keep the car in his possession and not to part with possession of it. Clearly hes able to hand it to a garage for repair and maintenance purposes. But the 
car remains his responsibility. He failed to collect the car from the repairing garage even 
after he was told it would not be carrying out repairs, after he was told he would be charged 
a daily rate until he collected it, and after he was told the car would be reported to the 
council.
But I sympathise with Mr B. The supplying garage outsourced the second repair to garage R. 
Mr B reported there was still a fault with the car immediately after hed collected it from being 
fixed so garage R collected the car from him again. A price was given for repair and all 
parties agreed. Mr B paid £500 cash to garage R. But garage R failed to carry out the repair. 
Following various exchanges of texts and emails, the relationship between Mr B and garage 
R broke down, through no fault of Mr Bs. In the circumstances, I dont find it unreasonable 
that Mr B didnt want to visit the garage to collect his car.
Mr B explained the position to Motonovo and whilst initially it did try to mediate, I think it 
could have done more to help Mr B when it found out that garage B had closed. Under the 
terms of the hire purchase agreement, Motonovo is the legal owner of the car, so I think it 
should have done more to try to find out what had happened to the car and to help Mr B get 
it back.
Mr B has been experiencing financial difficulties for a prolonged period and he hasnt had 
use of the car. I think its important for both parties that this matter is now concluded as soon 
as possible. And I think, because of Mr Bs financial difficulties, Montonovo needs to do more 
to help him.
In the particular circumstances here, I agree with the resolution recommended by our 
investigator, I think Motonovo should remove the interest from the agreement so that Mr B 
repays the cost of the car alone.
My final decision
My final decision is that FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo Finance should:
1. Remove all interest from the agreement so that Mr B only pays it the cost of the car.
2. Taking into account Mr Bs income and expenditure, it may need to agree an 
affordable repayment plan for the remaining balance that Mr B owes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman