DRN-1150433
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc used information from a previous account he held 
when setting up a new account. 
What happened
Mr D completed an account switch from another business to HSBC in March 2019. On 25 
March 2019 Mr D contacted HSBC as he noticed an international payment had been set up 
on his online account. HSBC explained that the payees details had been used by Mr D in 
relation to another account he previously held. Mr D has told us the payee related to a one 
off payment he made in November 2011 from a closed joint account. 
Mr D later complained to HSBC that it had reused his old online banking credentials and log 
in information when setting up his new account. 
HSBC says it responded to Mr Ds complaint on 10 May 2019, but hes told us the final 
response wasnt received. Mr D contacted HSBC again on 3 June 2019 and it advised the 
final response had been sent on 10 May 2019.  On 15 June 2019 HSBC sent Mr D a letter 
containing a copy of its final response. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator didnt think HSBC had made a mistake by using information it held on file about 
Mr D when opening his new account. He said HSBC had quickly explained who the 
unrecognised payee was and took steps to remove it from Mr Ds new account. In addition, 
the investigator explained that HSBC didnt deactivate Mr Ds previous online banking facility 
which meant the credentials could be reassigned to him when he opened a new account. 
The investigator thought HSBC had responded to Mr Ds complaint within the agreed time 
limits. Mr D asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has told us he was very concerned when, on accessing his account, he found an 
unrecognised payee. As a result, he had to call HSBC to find out why it had been added to 
the new account. I appreciate Mr Ds concerns, but I think HSBC provided a clear 
explanation about what happened. Mr D had previously held an account with HSBC and it 
retained information about him from that time. HSBC took the information it had on file as 
well as what Mr D said in his application and used it as the basis for opening his new 
account. 
Mr D says that HSBC should have had sufficient information within the application to open a 
new account. But its up to HSBC to decide what information it uses when opening an 
account. If HSBC retained information about Mr D from a previous account it seems 
reasonable that it would factor that in when opening a new account. I understand that only one payment had been made to the payee, back in 2011, and that Mr 
D didnt immediately know who the payee was. But when Mr D called HSBC to check what 
the payment instruction related to it was able to explain and delete it. Whilst I understand 
why Mr D was concerned, I think HSBC dealt with his query quickly and resolved the 
situation. 
HSBC explains that when a customer closes an account it doesnt automatically delete the 
online banking credentials so customers can still get bank statements and other information. 
As a result, HSBC reused Mr Ds previous online banking details. Again, HSBC can decide 
how it operates and what form its online banking credentials can take. I appreciate Mr D was 
surprised when his old online banking information was reused but I haven't found anything to 
show an error has been made.
Mr D says that other payments of a similar nature were added to his new bank account. He 
also says his previous account was held in joint names and that hed specifically told HSBC 
that no international payments would be made from the new account. I understand Mr Ds 
concern but for me to uphold a complaint and award compensation Id have to be satisfied 
that HSBC had made a mistake which had led to a financial loss or caused an unreasonable 
amount of distress and inconvenience. In this case, the addition of the payee to Mr Ds new 
account hasnt caused a financial loss and was quickly removed by HSBC. I havent found 
grounds for an award. 
Mr D didnt receive HSBCs final response dated 10 May 2019 and it was sent by post on 15 
June 2019. HSBC has confirmed that it initially sent the final response to Mr D by email. 
HSBC has provided systems information that shows it sent Mr D its final response by email 
on 10 May 2019 in line with its claims. After the email wasnt received, HSBC sent another 
copy in the post. Im satisfied from the evidence provided that HSBC responded to Mr Ds 
within the time limits allowed. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I havent found anything to show that HSBC made a mistake 
or treated him unfairly. As I think HSBC dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly Im not telling it to 
do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman