DRN-4037348
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint is about a secured loan they took out with Blemain Finance 
Limited. They have complained:
That Blemain paid their mortgage lender funds from the loan advance to repay the 
arrears on the mortgage.
The fees and charges applied to the account.
The relationship between Blemain and their first charge mortgage lender and their 
broker.
That the interest rate applied to the loan was too high.
The level of contact from Blemain about the loan up to August 2020.
The contact and treatment they received from Blemain between August 2020 and the 
legal action commencing in early 2021. They are also unhappy that Blemain decided to 
take that action.
What happened
One of my ombudsman colleagues issued a decision in August 2022 setting out how our 
jurisdiction affected each of Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint issues. She concluded that we 
could only consider two parts of the complaint. These being: 
the contact and treatment Mrs G and Mr G received from Blemain between August 2020 
and the legal action commencing in early 2021; and
the fees and charges applied from 15 October 2016. 
As such, the background information below focusses on just those issues. 
Mrs G and Mr G took out the loan in 2012. They borrowed just over £67,000 with a 
repayment term of 20 years. They started having difficulties paying the loan the following 
year and it has been in arrears since late 2013.
In line with the regulators guidance, Blemain agreed a payment deferral on the loan starting 
in April 2020 and ending six months later in September 2020. Just over a month before the 
payment deferral was due to end, Blemain wrote to Mrs G and Mr G to remind them that the 
payment deferral was due to end soon and it wanted to speak to them about their situation, 
given the loan payments were due to restart at the beginning of October 2020. No contact 
was made, and so around 10 days later, Blemain started to telephone and write to them 
regularly. 
In the middle of September 2020 Mrs G spoke to Blemain and explained that they couldnt 
afford to start making payments to the loan. Blemain explained that as the payment deferral 
was about to come to an end, it needed to assess Mrs G and Mr Gs situation. Mrs G 
declined to provide Blemain with the information it needed as she was busy. She also said 
she saw no point in doing so as it would show they couldnt afford to make the payments. 
Mrs G said a payment would be made before 1 November and that she would keep Blemain 
updated. She also asked for a redemption statement, which was sent to her a few days later.
Blemain continued to try to speak to Mrs G or Mr G to get clearer information about their 
circumstances, but when it was able to speak to one of them, no real information was 
provided due to time constraints on Mrs Gs part. When times for discussions were arranged, 
calls were either not answered or Blemain was told the time was not convenient for Mrs G.
In light of what it saw as the lack of co-operation from Mrs G and Mr G, Blemain made the 
decision at the end of January 2021 that it would start legal action to repossess the property.
At the beginning of January 2021 Mrs G and Mr G complained about the amount of 
correspondence they had received over the previous two and a half weeks  they said theyd 
received 15 letters, which was utterly contemptible as it was during the Christmas holiday 
period. Mrs G asked that all letters were stopped as they were finding their receipt stressful.
On 11 February 2021 Mrs G made a further complaint. She was very unhappy about 
receiving a letter telling her that Blemain was starting legal action and the amount of letters 
she was getting about the arrears. Blemain agreed to look into the account details and call 
Mrs G back, which it did. Mrs G was told that the decision to move to litigation was because 
of the level of arrears, that it was continuing to grow and as it hadnt been given the 
information about her and Mr Gs circumstances it had asked for. The information Blemain 
needed to look at the matter again was set out for Mrs G. Mrs G declined to provide the 
information and set out her complaint points in full. She was advised to seek independent 
financial advice.  Subsequently Mrs G also complained about the call handler shed spoken 
as shed found them to be unsympathetic. 
Blemain responded to the complaint in its letter of 22 February 2021. It said it had listened to 
the conversations of 11 February 2021 and didnt agree with Mrs G about the call handler, 
but it was sorry if Mrs G felt he was unsympathetic. It went on to confirm that it was required 
to keep Mrs G and Mr G up to date with what was happening with their loan and it had done 
so appropriately. In relation to the number of letters issued, it said that it had only issued five 
letters in the three weeks prior to Mrs Gs complaint. Three of these had been letters that the 
regulator required it to issue. The other two letters had been about a refund that was being 
applied to the account. Blemain repeated what it had told Mrs G previously, that it was not 
able to stop all letters. None of the complaint points were upheld.
Mrs G and Mr G werent happy with the response they had received from Blemain and 
referred their complaint to this service.
 
Following my ombudsman colleague concluding what parts of the complaint fell within our 
jurisdiction, one of our investigators considered the merits of the complaint. She didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mrs G and Mr G didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They made further comment on 
how they came to be in the situation they were. They also made comment on complaint 
points they had been told didnt fall within our jurisdiction or had not previously been raised 
with Blemain and didnt form part of the complaint theyd referred to this service. In addition, 
they confirmed that they didnt agree with my colleagues conclusion that much of their 
complaint fell outside our jurisdiction and couldnt be considered. Mrs G and Mr G asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
At each stage of our process we look at our jurisdiction to consider a complaint. Having 
done so, I agree with my ombudsman colleague that we can only consider the 
communications with, and treatment of, Mrs G and Mr G between August 2020 and the legal action starting in early 2021, and the fees and charges applied from 15 October 2016.
While Mrs G and Mr G are clearly unhappy about what happened with their mortgage lender, 
that led to them having to take out the loan with Blemain, and the advice they received in 
2012, they are not matters that can be considered under this complaint. This complaint is 
about Blemain, and issues with the mortgage lender or the broker that sold the loan, cant be 
commented on here. 
Mrs G and Mr G have also said that they have been told that there errors in the Blemain 
contract, which if correctly exploited and identified, could be favourable to them. As our 
investigator has explained, we are only able to get involved in a complaint if the respondent 
business, Blemain in this case, has been given the opportunity to respond to that complaint. 
So it would be for Mrs G and Mr G to set out the reported errors that they have been told 
about and refer their complaint to Blemain. The same would apply to their concerns about 
any commissions paid.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. The 
Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML) also has its own guidelines about what it expects 
lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the requirements of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such as 
deferring interest for a period of time or changing the interest rate applied to the loan. 
Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable 
and sustainable. Any arrangement must also actually help the customer, rather than just 
delay the inevitable.
In order for a lender to be able to assess what, if anything, it can do to assist a customer, it 
needs to know information about their situation. Without such information, it is impossible for 
the lender to determine whether help is needed, and if it is, what will help, and what is 
affordable. 
Mrs G and Mr G have complained about the contact and correspondence from Blemain on 
more than one occasion. Specifically, Mrs G complained that they had been sent 15 letters 
between the middle of December 2020 and the beginning of January 2021. I have examined 
the correspondence logs Blemain has provided and during that period Blemain only sent one 
letter to Mrs G and Mr G; on 23 December 2020. In addition, Blemain tried to call Mrs G 
once and sent two text messages asking for a call back. 
I have also looked at how much correspondence was sent to Mrs G and Mr G between 
August 2020 and February 2021. Blemain wrote to them approximately every two weeks. It 
called them more often and latterly sent them a few text messages. As Blemain has 
explained, it is required by the regulator to keep customers who are in arrears informed 
about their account at least on a monthly basis.  During that period Blemain also tried to 
contact Mrs G and Mr G by telephone to try to discuss the situation with them and garner the 
information it needed to be able to assess that situation. Most of those calls werent 
answered and the letters asking for them to contact Blemain werent responded to either. 
This placed Blemain in a difficult position  it couldnt fulfil its regulatory obligations because 
Mrs G and Mr G werent co-operating with it. In those circumstances it was not unreasonable 
for Blemain to continue to attempt to get a response and information from Mrs G and Mr G. So I dont consider that the amount of correspondence and attempts to contact them by 
other means was unreasonable. 
By January 2021 no payments had been made to the loan since the summer of 2019, albeit 
six months of that time being accounted for by a Covid-19 payment deferral. Added to this, 
Mrs G and Mr G had declined to co-operate with Blemain and provide it with the information 
it needed to assess the situation. I am not persuaded that it was unreasonable for Blemain to 
make the decision to take legal action in these circumstances.
Mrs G and Mr G have also complained about the charges and fees that were applied to the 
loan. As my colleague explained, can only consider those charges applied from 15 October 
2016 which were:
18 October 2016 Arrears management charge
5 November 2016 Arrears management charge
5 June 2018 Arrears management charge 
5 September 2019 Arrears management charge
5 October 2019 Arrears management charge
5 November 2019 Arrears management charge
5 December 2019 Arrears management charge
5 January 2019 Arrears management charge
5 December 2020 Arrears management charge
5 January 2021 Arrears management charge
4 February 2021 Court hearing fee and land registry document costs
5 February 2021 Arrears management charge
17 February 2021 Legal costs
5 March 2021 Arrears management charge
5 April 2021 Arrears management charge
8 April 2021 Legal costs
We dont generally consider it is reasonable for a lender to add charges and fees to a 
mortgage or secured loan just because there are arrears on the account. However, where an 
account is not being maintained and this causes the lender additional cost to administer it, 
we wouldnt consider it unreasonable for charges to be applied. 
I would confirm to Mrs G and Mr G that the arrears charges applied are for the administration 
of the loan due to what happened in the previous month. For example, the fee charged on 
5 December 2020 was for the additional administration it had to do because no payment was 
made to the account in November 2020.
Blemain decided to take legal action on the account at the end of January 2021. The 
mortgage terms and conditions allow Blemain to add any legal costs it incurs in this situation 
to the mortgage. As such, it was not unreasonable for Blemain to apply the legal charges in 
February and April 2021. However, at the same time, despite the account having been 
transferred to its legal team, Blemain also charged its standard administration charge for 
February and March 2021, on 5 February, 5 March and 5 April respectively. I dont consider 
this is reasonable and so I consider that these charges should be reversed on the account 
as at the date they were charged. 
In relation to the other arrears charges, I consider all but one of those charges was fairly 
applied to the account, as either no payment was made, or the payment made was less than 
the contractual monthly payment (CMP) without prior agreement. The exception is the 
charge applied on 18 October 2016. This charge related to September 2016, when Mrs G 
and Mr G paid slightly more than the CMP. As such, I dont consider the charge was fairly 
applied and it should also be reversed as at the date it was charged. Our investigator explained to Blemain what charges I was proposing to reverse. It accepted 
my conclusions and confirmed that this would reduce the account balance by £273.58. This 
sum being made up of the four charges of £50 each plus £73.58 of associated interest. 
Blemain confirmed it had nothing further to add.
Mrs G and Mr G responded and didnt accept my conclusions. They didnt comment on the 
merits of the two aspects of the complaint I considered in my provisional decision. Rather 
they commented further on aspects of the complaint that dont fall within our jurisdiction to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G and Mr G clearly still dont agree with my ombudsman colleagues findings about our 
jurisdiction, but as I explained in my provisional decision, I agreed with those conclusions. I 
have noted the further comments made, but they dont add anything to the evidence on 
these matters and so I dont consider that there is any cause to review again the matter of 
our jurisdiction.
As neither party has provided any new comments regarding the merits of the parts of the 
complaint that fall within our jurisdiction, I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Blemain Finance Limited to 
reverse the arrears management charges applied to the loan on 5 February 2021, 
5 March 2021, 5 April 2021 and 18 October 2016.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs G and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman