DRN-1352752
 
The complaint
Mr A complained that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr A took out four Sunny loans between October 2017 and April 2018. Mr A repaid the first 
two loans  but he hasnt yet (so far as I am aware) repaid loans 3 and 4. 
Heres a table showing more information:
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest*
Monthly 
Repayment*
1 17/10/2017 27/10/2017 6 £250.00 £73.22
2 22/11/2017 28/01/2018 6 £250.00 £83.33
3 19/03/2018 debt sold 6 £250.00 £72.36
4 25/04/2018 debt sold 6 £50.00 £89.03
* this is the highest combined amount payable where loans overlap
Mr A mainly said that Sunny had failed to carry out necessary affordability checks and his 
credit file showed that he was in a very bad financial situation and Sunny shouldnt have lent 
to him. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr A and Sunny told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr As 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Sunny 
to ask Mr A for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Mr A had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Sunny shouldve alerted 
Sunny to think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr As complaint. 
Mr A disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Sunny provided Mr A with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Sunny needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Sunny was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr A before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Sunny says it agreed to Mr As applications after carrying out affordability checks and it 
relied on information Mr A provided about his monthly income and expenditure as well as 
searching his credit record.  
It says the information it had about Mr A showed that repaying the loans shouldnt become 
difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
From what I can see, Mr A declared his income as £2850 and after paying his declared 
outgoings it looks as though he had a disposable income of more than £1000 per month 
when he took out loans 1,2 and 3 and a little less than this - around £966 - when he took out 
loan 4. 
Mr A was due to repay the loans in six instalments and the highest monthly repayment on 
his Sunny borrowing  even when loan 4 overlapped with loan 3  was always less than £90. 
Sunny says the checks it carried out didnt suggest Mr A couldnt afford to repay these loans. 
And based on all the information it seems Mr A told Sunny and the information it recorded for 
him each time he applied for a loan, it wouldve looked like Mr A had sufficient money left 
after paying his other monthly outgoings to sustainably repay the loan. 
Ive taken into account that Mr A took out loan 4 whilst he was still paying for loan 3  but 
that isn't a reason for me to uphold the complaint. It was for a relatively small sum and the 
combined repayments should still have been comfortably affordable for Mr A looking at what 
Sunny had recorded about his financial situation. Even though Mr A had payment problems 
on loan 3 later on, he was up to date with the repayments when he applied to take out 
loan 4. So Sunny wouldnt have had any reason at that stage to think that loan 4 wasnt likely 
to be sustainably affordable for him.Based on all the information it seems Mr A told Sunny and the information it recorded for him 
on each application, it wouldve looked like Mr A had sufficient money left after paying his 
other monthly outgoings to sustainably repay all these loans.
Ive taken into account that Mr A says he underestimated his outgoings because Sunny 
didn't ask him sufficiently detailed questions to prompt him to provide a more accurate 
overall picture of his monthly costs. But I think that Sunny gave Mr A fair opportunity to 
provide relevant information about his spending and it was entitled, at this early stage in their 
relationship, to rely on the information he provided.
So I dont think Sunny was wrong to lend these loans.  
Mr A says Sunny shouldve known he was in financial difficulty due to the information it 
wouldve seen on the credit checks it said it carried out. And I can see that the credit 
information Mr A sent us shows he had other outstanding high cost loans and some defaults 
already on his credit record during the period he was borrowing these loans from Sunny.  
Its unclear whether Sunny would've seen all this information. I say this because when a 
lender carries out a credit search (even a hard credit search as Sunny did) the information it 
sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit search will. 
And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors have reported 
information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A lender might only 
see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be missing or 
anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same 
credit reference agencies. So, the information thats shown on Mr As own credit check, 
including other short term loans, may not have been identified by the credit checks done by 
Sunny.
I havent seen the actual credit checks Sunny did at the time. But this doesnt affect the 
outcome of this complaint. Thats because I can also see that Mr A declared his outgoing 
monthly credit commitments to Sunny each time he applied for a Sunny loan - and Sunny 
took this into account when it made its lending decision. So whilst I appreciate he had other 
debts elsewhere, I dont think it was wrong for Sunny to rely on the information Mr A 
provided in relation to how much he paid on a monthly basis towards those debts. 
And it doesnt look to me like the number or extent of other high cost loans outstanding when 
Mr A applied to Sunny for these loans was enough to make Sunny realise (had it seen this 
information) that the loans it was providing werent likely to be affordable on top of the other 
loans he was paying.
The defaults I've seen on Mr As credit file arent enough to make me think that seeing this 
information shouldve necessarily led a responsible lender to deny him credit in 
circumstances where the other indications were that these loans were affordable. 
Im sorry that Mr A found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality it looks 
likely that Mr As financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, 
or the other information Sunny obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be 
able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Sunny did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr A. 
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr A but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.I take this opportunity to remind Sunny (or any third party debt owner) that it should discuss 
payment options with Mr A and treat him fairly and sympathetically if he needs further time to 
pay what he still owes.
And if Mr A would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman