DRN-2166136
The complaint
Mr C complains about PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) and the way it allocated his 
payments on his credit account.
What happened
Mr C has a credit account with PayPal. He had taken advantage of a promotional purchase 
offer that allowed him four months 0% interest. Mr C wanted to repay the outstanding 
balance on this promotion that was due to expire on 28 February 2020. 
On 20 February 2020 Mr C paid £370.00 which he thought was going to pay that balance off, 
as he didnt want to accrue any interest. However, his payment has only partly paid of the 
balance on the promotion and the rest has gone towards his other purchases. He thought as 
he had already paid more than the minimum payment that month, this payment would pay 
the promotional purchase. He says PayPal havent made it clear that if he has other credit 
with it, then it will place the payments against the other items, even if he had paid his 
minimum monthly payments. 
PayPal has said unless the repayment is for the full amount outstanding on the account then 
the payments are allocated to those that attract the highest interest rate, as outlined in its 
terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said PayPal had followed the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement that Mr C signed when he set up the account. Mr C didnt 
agree he doesnt feel that the conditions are explained prior to any orders being placed and 
that if you already have a credit account it doesnt give you any option to look at the terms 
before you place the order. Mr C has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must give regard to all the circumstances, including 
any agreement made between Mr C and PayPal and any relevant regulators rules. Mr Cs 
agreement with PayPal was set out in the credit agreement that he signed in July 2017.
This includes, under Allocation of Payments condition 2.7: If you do not pay off the Credit 
Account balance in full in any month, we will apply your payment to outstanding amounts on 
your statement in the following order:
A. first, to any Promotional Purchase Offer Transaction Payment Amounts due; then to
B. the Standard Balance; then to
C. any Promotional Balance; then to
D. any other balance shown on this statement.
In each category, payments will be allocated in order from the balance subject to the highest 
interest rate to the balance subject to the lowest interest rate. In the case of the Standard 
Balance, interest and charges will be paid in advance of Transactions. Where two 
Promotional Balance Transactions have the same interest rate, the soonest expiring will be 
repaid first. 
In the past, many credit card providers would apply payments first against transactions on 
which no interest or a low rate of interest was charged. This often left borrowers unable to 
reduce debt attracting a relatively high rate of interest. Regulators sought to address that, 
and the relevant regulators rule is now set out at CONC 6.7.4 of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook, which says: A firm must first allocate a repayment to the debt subject 
to the highest rate of interest (and then to the next highest rate and so on) for  the 
outstanding balance on a credit card 
Mr Cs PayPal credit account is like a virtual credit card that can be used as a funding source 
in the account holders PayPal wallet. In addition to making normal payments, PayPal Credit 
offers its customers access to two types of promotional purchase. I can see these are 
described more fully in Condition 3.1 of the PayPal Credit agreement but are either 
merchant-specific instalment offers, which have agreed monthly repayments, or a generally 
available "0% interest for four months" offer on all purchases over £99.00 GBP. Typical APR 
is 19.9%.
Ive reviewed Mr Cs credit statement issued 11 February 2020, and it includes the amount 
of the minimum payment due. This includes any promotional purchase offer transaction 
payment amounts, which are the monthly amounts due for specific promotional instalment 
purchases made. The minimum payment due also takes into account a percentage of the 
total remaining balance relating to a promotional purchase, such as 0% interest for four 
months.
The credit statement also states the following:
Allocation of Payments
When we receive a payment which isn't for the total current balance, we will apply your
payment to any monthly instalments due on instalment plans first and then in the order
as specified in your Credit Agreement with us.
So, in this case Mr C hadnt paid off the full balance in February, the funds he paid were 
allocated to clear the highest interest-bearing purchases first, which was £158.96, and the 
remaining towards the promotional offer. Due to this, there was an outstanding balance of 
£120.64 left on the promotional balance. Therefore, the overpayment was allocated to the 
standard balance that was accruing the highest rate of interest first, and the remaining was 
used for the promotion offer that was due to expire soon. From what Ive seen PayPal have 
not made any error, it has followed the terms and conditions of the credit agreement and it is 
following the regulators rules as I would expect it to. For this reason, I will not be asking 
PayPal to do anything different.
I understand Mr C feels these terms should be available when he makes purchases using 
this method. In order to use the PayPal service each user must accept and agree to the 
terms of the online User Agreement (including the policy statements incorporated therein). 
Mr C entered into the contract and accepted the credit agreement on 16 July 2017. 
Subsequent to registration, the PayPal User Agreement is accessible via the Legal link 
located on every page of the PayPal website. The terms of the PayPal User Agreement 
apply and legally bind each user every time they use the PayPal service. In addition, when it 
comes to checkout there is a terms link located on the page and this takes you through to the terms and conditions etc. So, I am not persuaded that PayPal has done anything wrong, 
and I wont be asking it to anything differently on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman