DRN-3997272
The complaint
Mr K, as executor and beneficiary, complains on behalf of his late wifes (Mrs Ks) estate  
about Equiniti Financial Services Limited, referred to as Equiniti or the business  
regarding a number of issues, including: 
a delayed (and/or incomplete) additional permitted subscription (APS) transfer 
request from his wifes ISA to his. 
Missing Standard Life stock from his wifes account.
Failing to note his wifes death on the system before obtaining the Grant of Probate 
(GoP).
What happened
On 19 January 2023, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision, I said:  
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im going to partially uphold this complaint, 
but I do so on a very limited and discrete basis.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I think the
business should refund the estate of Mrs K the sum of £54.52 deducted (as a charge) from
her ISA.
Apart from that, I dont think business has behaved in such a way (in respect of the estate of
Mr Ks wife) such that this complaint should be upheld in respect of the other complaint
points. In the circumstances, I also cant say that Mr K, as representative, is entitled to any
compensation.
Im aware that the business, of its own volition, has already paid Mr K £250 compensation
for distress and inconvenience caused. In the circumstances, this isnt something I can
comment upon because I dont think Mr K  as representative of his wifes estate  is entitled
to any compensation in this instance, for reasons Ill go on to clarify.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Ks strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr K, and Equiniti, and reach what I think is an independent, fair
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Although Mr K is referred to as the executor and beneficiary of his wifes estate  Im mindful
that the complaint is brought on behalf of his wifes estate, and not him, as an eligible
complainant in his own right. In other words, in this case hes authorised in law to represent
someone who wouldve been eligible to represent themselves.
I should clarify that the extent of my powers to consider complaints is set by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA), in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules.
The rules specifically provide limitations on who is an eligible complainant. DISP rule 2.7
states:
A complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (or a deceased
person who would have been an eligible complainant) by a person authorised by the
eligible complainant or authorised by law.
In this instance Mr Ks wife wouldve been an eligible complainant and therefore able to
authorise any third party to represent her. I note the GoP named Mr K as the executor of his
wifes estate, therefore hes an eligible complainant.
In my opinion, and on balance, in this instance this complaint arises out of the deceased
consumers relationship with the business, as it concerns Mr Ks wifes ISA, missing stocks
and transferring over the ISA allowance to him.
Whilst Im not encouraging Mr K to make another complaint, Im aware that it could be
argued that there are (potentially) problems at his end, which might (or might not) justify a
complaint about his own ISA, but in my opinion thats not what Mr K has done, and thats not
what Im dealing with here.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I also dont think Mr K was named as nominee
on his wifes investment, I also dont think his wifes ISA was taken out for his sole benefit 
Ive seen no evidence that it was. So, in the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think I
can safely say that Mr K was the beneficial owner of the allowance in this context.
I understand that legal rights are only likely to transfer once the estate is distributed  thats
when the allowance/investments will actually be transferred  so anything up until that point,
is a complaint on behalf of the estate.
Based on what Equiniti says, on balance I think  its more likely than not  the issue
regarding the missing Standard Life units from Mr Ks wifes account has been dealt with by
the business in 2017, therefore I dont think revisiting what happened and why is appropriate
in this decision.
I note the business maintains that in 2016 Standard Life units had been incorrectly
transferred into Mr Ks wifes account and then subsequently taken out because they didnt
belong to her. As part of its explanation, the business says that the 2016 request from Mr Ks
wife and the portfolio valuation provided by her/them didnt mention/contain the Standard
Life stock  which the business says supports its contention that the stock in question wasnt
part of their investment. I note in 2017, the business subsequently apologised for the initial
error and offered/paid some compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Despite what the parties say, its not clear if the complaint regarding the Standard Life stock
has been referred to our service and dealt with. On balance, I think its unlikely that it
wouldnt have been referred, if Mr K and/or his wife were unhappy with the resolution. Im
aware that a complaint relating to a cancelled transfer request was referred to our service,
and dealt with, in respect of which £1,000 compensation was paid to settle the matter.In any case, the above probably explains why the Standard Life stock wasnt included as
part of Mr Ks wifes ISA (and her estate) and why subsequently it wasnt transferred as part
of Mr Ks APS request in this instance, so its not necessary for me to consider the additional
points in respect of it. Any suggestion that the business has appropriated the stock and/or
lost them  such that they were unjustifiably not included in Mr Ks wifes ISA and/or estate 
and is now seeking to cover its tracks, is on balance, untenable. I appreciate Mr K is
unhappy that he doesnt have more evidence, but that doesnt of itself mean that the
complaint should be looked into again and/or upheld. Or that it has in anyway disadvantaged
his wifes estate.
I note that in the complaint form and in an email dated 12 May 2021, Mr K concedes: There
are so many complaint references relating to both myself and my wife (both open and
closed) that to some degree I have lost track. Its for this reason, Ill try and deal with
matters in this complaint simply and systematically, and notwithstanding the fact that this
complaint is on behalf of Mr Ks wifes estate, I will address his points  where appropriate to
do so  given that some of the complaint points are somewhat blended.
On the face of the evidence, Im not persuaded that the APS transfer application (received
on 21 September 2020) took until October 2021 to complete. Based on what the business
says, it seems the transfer of the eligible stock was more likely (than not) completed by
October 2020 and the remaining stock/cash didnt form a part of the eligible APS transfer, 
and therefore took longer (possibly until October/December 2021) to deal with separately.
Be that as it may, this hasnt impacted Mr Ks wifes estate which he represents.
Based on what the business says, it seems that the account shouldve been locked after Mr
Ks wife passed away in December 2018, preventing any further investments taking place,
presumably to form part of Mr Ks wifes estate in due course.
I note Mr K says he notified the business of his wifes death, but the business maintains it
has no such record. Its not entirely clear what happened, but on balance if the business had
been notified, it probably wouldve locked the account and waited for the GoP, before
responding to Mr Ks APS transfer request. I note the business says the GoP confirms the
authority of the executor to administer the estate and confirms who the assets should be
transferred to  in the circumstances I cant blame the business for requesting/requiring the
GoP in order to progress matters in line with Mr Ks wishes following his wifes death.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, in this instance, I cant safely say that the
business was notified of Mr Ks wifes death in December 2018. Im aware the business
maintains that it wasnt notified until September 2020, and even though Mr K had numerous
opportunities to notify it throughout 2019 there is no persuasive evidence he did so. This
probably explains why Mr K was able to continue to trade on his wifes account, when this
(technically) ought not to have been possible and he shouldnt have done - given that the
POA (authorising him to do so) had ceased following the death of his wife and a POA
expires on death. In any case, I cant say that this has negatively impacted Mr Ks wifes
estate.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that on 4 September 2020, Mr K
notified the business in writing of his wifes death, of his wish to make an APS transfer, and
enclosed the GoP - despite what he says, I dont think thats when he sent the application
form.
On the face of the evidence, Im satisfied that the APS transfer request form (dated 18
September 2020) was sent on 19 September 2020 and received by the business (and
signed for) on 21 September 2020. I note there was some suggestion by the business that ithadnt received the form and asked for a new one, despite proof of delivery. This is likely to
have resulted in some delays and caused Mr K distress and inconvenience but hasnt
negatively impacted Mrs Ks estate.
I appreciate Mr K is upset that a number of stocks werent transferred in line with his
instructions. But, aside from the Standard Life stock, which Ive considered above, I note
based on what the business says those were specific stocks that were purchased on the
account after the death of his wife  when this account shouldve/wouldve been locked if
hed notified the business  so wouldnt have automatically transferred in line with his
request, and isnt something I can blame the business for in this case.
Im conscious that the business has deemed these stocks not to form part of the APS
transfer request, which on balance I dont think is unreasonable, it nevertheless wouldve
formed part of Mr Ks wifes estate. I also note the business says that as stipulated by HMRC
it cant continue with the wrapper after the accountholder has passed. So, in the
circumstances and on balance, I cant safely say that the business has done anything wrong
by not transferring all the stocks in this instance as per Mr Ks wishes.
In other words, based on the what the business says, I dont think it was wrong not to
transfer the stock that was acquired/traded after Mr Ks wifes death  when the account
shouldve been locked. I also cant safely say that the relevant stocks werent transferred 
as per the APS transfer request  by October 2020.
I note in an early response dated 23 October 2020, the business reiterated:
You will notice that there are some stocks remaining on the account. These stocks were
purchased by regular investments after the date of death and, therefore, are not part of the 
APS allowance. As we didnt receive notification of the death until September 2020, the 
regular investment remained in place on the account for some time after her death.
I note the government guidance states that APSs can be either the value of the deceaseds
ISA at the date or the point the ISA ceased to be a continuing account of a deceased
investor if the investor died on or after 6 April 2018.
I note Mr K states cessation of a continuing account is defined either as ISA closure or the
third anniversary after death, but in this instance, and on balance, I cant safely say that the
business has done anything wrong by not transferring stocks that were purchased following
the death of Mr Ks wife  and wouldve formed a part of his wifes estate  in line with his
interpretation given it says the account shouldve been locked and where his authority to
deal with her account under the PoA had ceased to exist.
I note in due course, Mr K was offered assistance with regards to transferring the remaining
stock. I also note in June 2021, the business reiterated the following message in relation to
stocks that werent transferred:
As previously advised we are able to sell the shares in your wifes ISA and transfer 
the cash to your ISA, where you may repurchase the shares. We are prepared to 
arrange for this to be completed commission free however we cannot guarantee the 
same amount of shares would be purchased. This does remain an option to you and 
I would kindly ask you to let me know if you would like us to proceed with this.
I appreciate the business offered Mr K assistance. Perhaps it couldve done more to manage
his expectations overall  evidently, he was having difficulty dealing with everything. But I
note the business also made clear that its usual procedure in this instance was to move any
assets that couldnt be transferred by APS into the spouses investment account, which Isuspect would form part of Mr Ks wifes estate in due course  so this is unlikely to have
affected his wifes estate adversely.
I note the business in due course also provided values for the remaining stock  arguably
this also couldve been done sooner, but with Mr K still thinking the stock shouldve been
transferred as part of his original APS request its difficult to know how helpful it wouldve
been. In the circumstances I dont think the business is responsible for replacing a shortfall
of units in this instance in line with Mr Ks wishes  thats an issue thats dependent on the
stock market, its not something that the business can predict or control. In any event, I cant
say that this wouldve had a negative impact on Mr Ks wifes estate.
I note Mr K mentioned that the £54.52 stamp duty deducted from his wifes ISA by Equiniti
hasnt been transferred to his ISA. Based on the information provided, I note the business
initially agreed to do this, but has since amended and clarified its position:
Turning my attention to the £54.52, as these funds were not held in your wifes ISA 
as of date of death, this will not be eligible to be transferred under the APS 
allowance. In order to pay this to you, I can either send you a cheque or arrange for 
this to be paid in your Dealing Account  in which my colleague will speak with (Mr 
Ks new provider) and transfer it to your Dealing Account with them. You would then 
need to arrange a cash movement, should you wish to have this paid into your ISA. 
Please note, this will use some your ISA subscription for this tax year.
Despite what the parties say, in my opinion, and on balance, this money taken out of Mr Ks
wifes ISA  and inevitably from her estate  so should be refunded to her estate. This is
what I think the business should do as soon as possible.
 
I appreciate that given everything that Mr K was going through, this clarification mightve
caused him some distress and inconvenience  but for the reasons Ive already explained
above, Im unable to award him any compensation for any distress and inconvenience
caused in the context of this complaint pursued on behalf of his wifes estate.
Im also mindful Mr K says that he spent time working out what stocks had transferred and
what hadnt, but for the reasons set out above I cant say that hes entitled to any
compensation in this instance. I also cant say that Mr Ks wifes estate is entitled to any
compensation, as this is unlikely to have negatively impacted her estate.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I also dont think the business was wrong not to
specifically provide a spreadsheet of holdings and transactions  I note it in due course it
provided this information in pdf form.
In relation to ongoing charges I note the business said: In relation to the Account Charges in
relation to Mr Ks wifes (name anonymised) ISA, as confirmed in my email of 12 May 2021
as a gesture of goodwill we arranged for the April Custody Charges to be refunded, we are
also prepared to waive future Custody Fees in relation to her account whilst you are deciding
how to proceed with the remaining stocks. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think this
is broadly fair and reasonable and is unlikely to adversely affect Mr Ks wifes estate. Given
that the business is refunding the fees as gesture of goodwill, which it probably couldve
chosen not to, I dont think this is a reason to uphold the complaint.
The above notwithstanding, Im conscious that Mr Ks wifes ISA  between her death and
the transfer  has benefitted by receiving additional stocks from regular investments with
subsequent dividends being issued on the increased number of shares in the account. I note
the business says that Mr K and his wifes estate  has benefitted around £24,000 
although I note the maths suggests its £23,199  its still a large benefit nevertheless. Immindful the business also says: Under current HMRC rulings, the spouse is entitled to the 
higher amount which is what you have received, and you have used the full subscription.
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr K has suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with his wifes
estate, I should make clear that under the rules governing our service, Mr K (as the executor
and representative) as well as his wifes estate, arent entitled to any compensation for
distress and inconvenience, as Ive explained above at the start of my decision.
Im aware Mr K thinks that hes eligible to receive significant compensation and that £500
(recommended by the investigator) isnt enough. But I can only tell a business to pay
compensation for trouble and upset experienced by its customer, not by a third party. So, Mr
Ks wife estate would only technically be entitled to compensation for financial loss  which I
have dealt with above  and Mr K isnt entitled to any compensation.
I appreciate that Mr K will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to
the investigator, and I still havent given him what he wants.
But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what he says, Im unable to uphold
this complaint and give him what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Mr K responded but didnt agree with my provisional decision. In addition to reiterating his 
position, he made the following key points:
I didnt note that in January 2019 Mr K contacted Equiniti about how to claim for an 
ASP ISA. He was told that he required the GoP but the business didnt say it needed 
a death certificate. So, there was nothing Mr K could do until the GoP arrived. 
The sum of £54.52 was incorrectly taken from within the ISA tax wrapper by Equiniti 
to correct their own error. The business should be able to correct this. 
Equiniti had a duty of care to Mr K, as executor, which it fell far short of. Being an 
executor isnt a consumer relationship which is why he had no access to the 
account when it was locked. It only becomes a consumer relationship once all the 
assets were transferred to a beneficiary, this didnt happen until 25 November 2021. 
Mr K cant be named as nominee on his wifes account.  
It seems the ombudsman hasnt seen the letter of 22 November 2022  copy 
attached. 
No evidence has been provided to our service to substantiate Equinitis actions which 
are the subject of this complaint, and no previous complaint was raised or evidenced 
by our service on this point. 
Because Equiniti has refused to provide sufficient evidence for the ombudsman to 
make a decision - all the available evidence considered is not a complete 
statement.  
Equiniti is deliberately refusing to provide answers. If this was a genuine error why is 
the evidence being refused by Equiniti. It could be that someone at Equiniti has 
stolen units and this is being covered up. Alternatively, if the information is genuine 
this information would be forthcoming. 
Equinitis reference to a portfolio valuation schedule is a complete red herring. Its a 
list of potential transfers, and most of the shares werent transferred. 
Standard Life units were the only units transferred-in to Equiniti by a third-party 
business that no longer appear in the portfolio of the Estate. The investigators 
comment regarding the Standard Life units are incorrect. 
Equinitis error related to transferring funds against specific instructions not to do so. This is in relation to the complaint referred to above and the £1,000 compensation. 
This is nothing to do with the missing Standard Life funds. Its ridiculous to say that 
this hasnt in any way disadvantaged Mr Ks wifes estate. Theres a loss of around 
£31,785. 
Under the APS scheme all stocks, funds and cash in the ISA were eligible to be 
transferred. If the ombudsman were to consider any ineligibility, it is due to actions by 
Equiniti, not Mr K who couldnt access the account. Equiniti allowed regular 
investments from within the ISA  to buy stock from cash within the account  after 
the call by Mr K in January 2019. 
The ombudsmans relying on statements by Equiniti rather than relying on facts. 
There should be recompense for Mr K on behalf of a deceased customer for the 
significant distress and inconvenience caused.   
The £31,785 plus the £54.52 is financial loss to Mr Ks wifes estate. 
The business also responded and made clear that it had already paid the £54.52 stamp duty 
deducted from Mr Ks wifes ISA. Im assuming it otherwise agreed with my provisional 
decision. In short, it said:
I can confirm that the payment of £54.52 was sent by faster payment to II, who are the new 
administrators of the EQi platform on 20 December 2021. The instruction was to pay this to 
Mr Ks Dealing Account with II as we could not credit his ISA.
On 26 January 2023, at my suggestion the investigator got in touch with Mr K to notify him 
that in light of the response from the business, I was considering changing my decision on 
this discrete point. In other words, I was considering issuing a final decision rejecting the 
complaint for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision. 
Mr K responded on 14 February 2023 and said he didnt agree and wanted more time. He 
said:
Standard Life Units c.£20,000  Ombudsman response Page 5, paras 4 -7
In the last week I have been in touch with (the third-party business) who arranged the 
transfer of the Standard Life units to Selftrade / EQi / Equiniti.
To obtain this Source information I need to send in a death certificate for my wife with a 
cover letter.
This will determine if these Standard Life units did in fact belong to her when they transferred 
them to her account with Equiniti.
Equiniti has never provided any evidence to support the fact that they did not belong to my 
wife, having resided in her portfolio for a number of months until they were removed.
Furthermore, the Ombudsman states Based on what Equiniti says, means that no 
independent evidence has been sort to verify that either (a) the Units did not belong to my 
wife or (b) that it has not been dealt with by the FOS previously.
Yet again the FOS is relying on Financial organisations statement rather than facts or what 
the customer states.
The third-party business think it will take about 5 weeks to get the details. Therefore, if I 
could have another two months say 16 April, I think I should be able to obtain the necessary 
independent evidence from the third-party business to identify if they made an error or not in 
transferring the Standard Life units to my wife.I understand Mr K was told by an investigator that the case had been with us since June 
2021, and that hed had an opportunity to provide all the information that he wanted us to 
consider or words to that effect. Based on what Mr K says, I note he only wrote to the third-
party business a week before the deadline despite having the opportunity to do so from 19 
January 2023.  
In any case, on 23 February 2023, again at my suggestion, the investigator further explained 
that I wasnt prepared to grant an extension primarily on the basis that the issue regarding 
the Standard Life units had been dealt with in my decision. In summary, the investigator 
said:
This was evidenced in a final response letter to the late Mrs K (name anonymised) dated 19 
June 2017, in which it was explained that the Standard Life units had been incorrectly 
allocated. The matter was then raised with our service under case reference CRN 
18517990. The outcome of which was that the units had been allocated in error and £1,000 
awarded for the inconvenience caused.
This was also clarified in Equintis final response letter to you dated 27 November 2020, as 
well as in my outcome and the ombudsmans provisional decision.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators response. In short, he said that the Standard Life units 
werent dealt with under the case referred to by the investigator ending case reference 
number (CRN) 990. That case related to Brexit deal errors and the transfer-in delay, for 
which £1,000 was awarded. 
He also said theres nothing that refers to the missing Standard Life units and Equiniti still 
hasnt provided any evidence about why the funds were removed  its unfair that his points 
werent considered relevant. Finally, Mr K confirmed that hed sent his wifes death certificate 
and is awaiting to liaise with the third-party business. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In a response dated 24 February 2023, the investigator explained that Equiniti had 
already issued a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 19 May 2017, and another dated 19 
June 2017, in which it explained that Standard Life units had been incorrectly allocated to 
her account on 12 July 2016, and as a result were removed. Furthermore, Mr Ks wife had 
the right to refer the complaint to our service within six months of the date of the FRL but 
failed to do so. The complaint on behalf of her estate wasnt raised until 30 April 2021, and 
therefore has been made out of time.   
Mr K disagreed with the investigators response. He doesnt think the case is being dealt with 
fairly. He finds it incredible that were refusing to focus on the missing units which Equiniti 
removed from the portfolio some months after that transfer. He also says: They are now 
worth some £37,000 which the FOS is determined to ensure I do not receive under APS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of the latest submissions from the parties, Ive been persuaded to 
change my decision. 
Ive now decided not to partially uphold this complaint, on the (previous) discrete basis that 
the business was yet to pay £54.52 stamp duty deducted from Mr Ks wifes ISA. Based on 
the businesss response, Im persuaded that the business has paid this sum.Apart from this discrete point, I dont uphold this complaint principally for the same reasons 
as set out in my provisional decision. In other words, in this instance, and on balance, Im 
still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been considered by me, in my 
provisional decision, so I dont think I need to repeat the same again. The above 
notwithstanding, on balance, I dont consider that any new material points have been made 
on behalf of Mr Ks wifes estate.  
I reiterate that Ive considered carefully the evidence submitted by the parties. Im not 
required to mention each and every document individually, and I dont agree that Ive only 
relied upon statements by Equiniti. Despite what Mr K says, I also dont consider that I need 
any further evidence before I can make my final decision. 
In the circumstances Im not going to grant Mr Ks wifes estate additional time to obtain 
evidence thats also unlikely to change the outcome of my decision, regardless of what it 
might show, for reasons I will explain below. In any case, Im conscious that it couldve been 
obtained some time ago, and Mr K has had the opportunity to respond to my provisional 
decision with any further submissions he wished me to consider.  
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, based on what Equiniti says, on balance I think  
its more likely than not  the issue regarding the missing Standard Life units from Mr Ks 
wifes account has been dealt with by the business in 2017, as evidenced by the FRLs dated 
May and June 2017. Therefore, despite what Mr K says, I still dont think revisiting what 
happened and why is appropriate in this decision. 
I note the business maintains that in 2016 Standard Life units had been incorrectly
transferred into Mr Ks wifes account and then subsequently taken out because they didnt
belong to her. As part of its explanation, the business says that the 2016 request from Mr Ks
wife and the portfolio valuation provided by her/them didnt mention/contain the Standard
Life stock  which the business says supports its contention that the stock in question wasnt
part of their investment. In any case, I note in 2017, the business subsequently apologised 
for the initial error and offered/paid some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, effectively dealing with that particular complaint. 
Based on what the parties say, on balance it seems that the complaint about this specific 
issue  although dealt with by the business  wasnt then referred to us, and its not clear 
why it wasnt. As I said previously, its unlikely that it wouldnt have been referred, if Mr K 
and/or his wife were unhappy with the resolution. This suggests that perhaps they were 
happy with the resolution by the business at the time and may explain why theres no record 
of that particular complaint with our service. Subsequently making enquiries on behalf of Mr 
Ks wife, or her estate, isnt the same as referring the complaint to our service.   
In my provisional decision I said, Im aware that a complaint relating to a cancelled transfer 
request was referred to our service  I note it was dealt with under case reference number 
ending in 990  in respect of which £1,000 compensation was paid to settle the matter. It 
seems that case probably related to Brexit deal errors and the transfer-in delay for which 
substantial compensation was awarded, and not Standard Life shares. 
Just because the Standard Life issue hasnt been dealt with by our service, doesnt mean 
that it can be dealt with now. 
The extent of my powers to consider complaints is set by the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. The rules specifically 
provide time limitations within which to refer complaints to this service. 
DISP rule 2.8.2 says: The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
1. (1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication. 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received;
Im mindful that the FRL in relation to the issue is dated as May/June 2017. In the 
circumstances, under the DISP rules Mr Ks wife, or even Mr K on her behalf, had the right to 
refer the complaint to our service within six months of the date of the FRL but failed to do so. 
I note the complaint on behalf of her estate wasnt raised until April 2021, therefore the 
complaint in relation to this point has been made too late. In other words, by failing to refer 
the complaint to our service by November/December 2017, the matter is now outside of the 
allowed timeframe. 
So, even if I was to grant additional time to obtain information from a third-party business, its 
still not something I could consider. I understand Mr K, on behalf of his wifes estate, will be 
disappointed with the outcome. Whilst I have every sympathy for the situation, I must have 
regard to the rules that govern this complaint. 
In any case, I still think my provisional decision explains why the Standard Life stock wasnt 
included as part of Mr Ks wifes ISA (and her estate) and why subsequently it wasnt 
transferred as part of Mr Ks APS request in this instance, so its not necessary for me to 
consider the additional points in respect of it. 
I also still think that any suggestion that the business (or someone within it) has stolen the 
stock and/or lost them  such that they were unjustifiably not included in Mr Ks wifes ISA 
and/or estate  and is now seeking to cover its tracks, is on balance, untenable. 
I appreciate Mr K is still unhappy that he doesnt have more evidence, but that doesnt of 
itself mean that the complaint should be looked into again and/or upheld. Or that it has in 
anyway disadvantaged his wifes estate. It also doesnt mean that Equiniti is deliberately 
trying to hide information if doesnt have any further information to provide. 
Despite the latest submissions on behalf of Mr Ks wifes estate, I note Mr K says he notified 
the business of his wifes death (possibly in January 2019), but the business maintains it has 
no such record. Its not entirely clear what happened, but on balance if the business had 
been notified, it probably wouldve locked the account and waited for the GoP, before 
responding to Mr Ks APS transfer request. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I note the business says the GoP confirms the 
authority of the executor to administer the estate and confirms who the assets should be 
transferred to  in the circumstances I cant blame the business for requesting/requiring the 
GoP in order to progress matters in line with Mr Ks wishes following his wifes death.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, in this instance, I cant safely say that the
business was notified of Mr Ks wifes death in December 2018. Im aware the business
maintains that it wasnt notified until September 2020, and even though Mr K had numerousopportunities to notify it throughout 2019, despite the latest submissions, Im not persuaded 
that he did so. 
I think this probably explains why Mr K was able to continue to trade on his wifes account, 
when this (technically) ought not to have been possible and he shouldnt have done - given 
that the POA (authorising him to do so) had ceased following the death of his wife and a 
POA expires on death. In any case, I cant say that this has negatively impacted Mr Ks 
wifes estate.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite the recent submissions, Im satisfied 
that on 4 September 2020, Mr K notified the business in writing of his wifes death, of his 
wish to make an APS transfer, and enclosed the GoP - despite what he says, I dont think 
thats when he sent the application form.
Whilst Ive still no doubt that Mr K has suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with his 
wifes estate, I should reiterate once again that despite what Mr K says about duty of care, 
under the rules governing our service, Mr K (as the executor and representative) as well as 
his wifes estate, arent entitled to any compensation for distress and inconvenience, as Ive 
explained above at the start of my provisional decision.
I appreciate that Mr K on behalf of his wifes estate will be thoroughly disappointed that Ive 
rejected the complaint, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of 
the available evidence, and on balance, Im still unable to uphold this complaint and give his 
wifes estate (and/or him) what he wants.
My final decision
For the reason set about above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman