DRN-3658879
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Nationwide Building Society administered his contact details.
What happened
Mr A took out a mortgage with Nationwide in April 2021.
 
Shortly afterwards, in May, Mr A contacted Nationwide via its banking app. He said that 
correspondence was still being sent to his old address despite having just taken out a 
mortgage. Mr A also said that his address was correctly displayed in Nationwides banking 
app, so he wanted to know why Nationwide was still writing to his old address.
 
Nationwide replied quickly. It said Mr As address would be correct for his mortgage account, 
but this didnt mean all other accounts that Mr A held would be updated too. Nationwide set 
out that it couldnt assume a mortgage address was correct for all of Mr As accounts, and 
hed need to change those details separately. Nationwide provided information on how Mr A 
could do so.
 
Mr A raised the same issue again in July  and this time he said retailers had begun refusing 
payments on his debit card. Much the same as before, Nationwide told Mr A that hed need 
to change his address for his current account  and any other products  separately to his 
mortgage account.
 
In January 2022, Mr A raised a complaint about the matter. In response, Nationwide 
reiterated that it didnt update other addresses when a customer takes out a mortgage. It 
said thats because a mortgage account, in some circumstances, may not correspond with 
where a customer resides, and it wouldnt want to risk sending confidential information to the 
wrong address. So, as a blanket rule, it requires customers to ensure their address details 
are correct for all accounts they hold. Nationwide also confirmed that Mr As address had 
now been updated across all accounts.
 
Mr A remained unhappy. After some further correspondence, Nationwide issued two more 
responses to Mr As concerns. In summary, it referred back to its emails from May 2021 
when it had told Mr A hed need to update his address separately to his mortgage account. 
Nationwide said no request to do so had been made until January 2022. Further, Nationwide 
explained that Mr As banking app had displayed his correct address because that was his 
general correspondence address. That didnt mean, though, that specific accounts had the 
same details. 
Nationwide did acknowledge that Mr A had been given some mis-leading information by one 
of its advisers during a phone call. The adviser had said they didnt know why addresses for 
other accounts didnt update in-line with a mortgage address. Nationwide said the reasons 
should have been explained to Mr A but, overall, this hadnt caused any detriment given the 
address details for all accounts had been updated in the same call.
 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service for an independent review. One of our 
investigators looked at what had happened and, on the whole, he didnt think Nationwide 
had done anything wrong. He said, in summary, that he couldnt hold Nationwide responsible 
for the length of time it had taken Mr As address to be changed. The investigator thought 
Nationwide had been clear throughout on what Mr A needed to do, and that it had acted 
reasonably.
 
Mr A disagreed with our investigator and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mr A has said, his complaint centres on why Nationwides online systems  like 
its banking app  displayed his correct address, despite that contact information not applying 
to every product he held.
 
Ill say here that I can appreciate Mr As point of view; his online banking app showed his 
correct address, so he assumed that those details applied to all his accounts. Thats 
understandable.
 
Equally, though, Im satisfied that Nationwide was clear  throughout its correspondence 
with Mr A  that different address details could be associated to the other products he held 
with it.
 
For example, when Mr A received a welcome letter upon taking out his mortgage, there was 
a clear warning. It said:
We wont have updated your address for any other products you have with us, so its 
important to make sure you tell us about this change
And later, when Mr A realised something wasnt quite right and queried it, he was told:
The address we have for you is correctly showing for your mortgage, however this does not 
automatically change the address for your other accounts as we cannot assume this will be 
the address for the associated accounts you have
You can change your address via your internet banking or banking app by following the 
steps below
It doesnt seem, though, from what Ive seen, that Mr A took any action at that point. And 
when he raised the issue for a second time, a month or two later, he was given the same 
response. But it doesnt appear that Mr A took any action then either. So, I dont think I can 
find Nationwide at fault for the address details not being updated.
 
Finally, Ive seen Nationwide clarified that its banking app and online banking system display 
a customers primary address  which isnt necessarily the address held for all products. 
And Nationwide said that if Mr A had clicked through to review his accounts, hed have seen 
the address details didnt match and needed updating. While I know Mr A doesnt agree with 
the way Nationwides systems work, its not the role of this service to direct it to change its 
systems or processes.
 Mr As address was eventually updated correctly across all of the products he holds with 
Nationwide. And it seems Nationwide acted quickly to make that change when Mr A 
requested it through the necessary channels in January 2022. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest a request was made before this point in time. So, I dont think Nationwide did 
anything wrong by not updating Mr As address before then.
 
It follows that while I can understand Mr As frustration here  I dont think Nationwide has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. So, on that basis, I dont require it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman