DRN-3246062
Complaint
Mr D has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly continued applying 
charges on his overdraft which added to his financial problems.
  
Background
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ds complaint and thought Santander should have 
realised Mr Ds overdraft had already become unsustainable when it agreed to increase his 
limit in October 2020. So it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to   
Mr Ds overdraft from this point. Santander disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision. Weve also explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds 
complaint.
Santander needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Santander needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr D could afford to repay before advancing any credit. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Santander acted unfairly when it 
continued lending to Mr D from October 2020 onwards. By this point, it was evident Mr D 
was already struggling to meet his existing credit commitments.  
Santander says it carried out credit checks. But it hasnt provided the results of any of these. 
In any event, a cursory look at Mr Ds statements leading up to October 2020 shows that   
Mr D had been borrowing from a number of high-cost credit providers in addition to having 
large commitments with more mainstream ones. 
Its also worth noting that given it also provided a loan for a significant amount at this stage, 
presumably to refinance some of Mr Ds existing commitments, Santander could quite easily 
have removed Mr Ds overdraft at this stage. This is especially the case as a closer look at 
Mr Ds statement suggest a possible reason for the extent of Mr Ds existing credit 
commitments was because he was gambling significant sums. And this in, itself, ought to 
have called into question whether Mr D was in a position to repay what Santander was 
agreeing to lend without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.  
So I think that by October 2020, Santander should not only have refused to increase Mr Ds 
overdraft limit, but it ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that he was also unlikely to 
be able to sustainably repay what he already owed. So at this point Santander shouldnt 
have continued providing the overdraft on the same terms and instead treated Mr D with 
forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. 
After all, the available information at the time of the application for the limit increase 
suggested that there was a significantly increased risk of Mr D being unable to fulfil his 
obligation to repay what he owed. And this was an objectively justified reason to terminate or 
suspend Mr Ds right to draw on further credit. 
All of this means that Santander should have realised that Mr D was in a cycle of debt and 
offered him help to repay what he already owed it. As Santander didnt react to Mr Ds 
account usage and what he said, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Mr Ds account from October 2020.
Mr D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges when he shouldnt have. So Im 
satisfied that Mr D lost out because of what Santander did wrong and that it should put 
things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from October 2020 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mr D is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ds credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in October 
2020. Santander can also reduce Mr Ds overdraft limit by the amount of refund if 
it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over 
his limit.
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Mr Ds overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Santander UK Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman