DRN-4279062
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc when she was tricked into making 
payments on her debit card as a result of a scam. 
Mrs F is being represented by a claims management company, but for ease of reading Ill 
only refer to Mrs F in my decision. 
What happened
In 2017 Mrs F came across a merchant, Ill refer to here as N, advertising investments in 
cryptocurrencies, on social media. 
Following conversations with N, Mrs F made four international debit card payments, totalling 
around £15,000 to N of £750, £1,000 and £250 on 12 June 2017 and a further £13,000 on 
30 November 2017. Mrs F was then told by Ns representative that he was going on holiday 
for two weeks and Mrs F was unable to speak to N again. 
In 2022 Mrs F raised a claim with HSBC. She said that the first two payments she made in 
June 2017 were stopped by HSBC. But following the conversation with HSBC the payments 
were released. HSBC considered the complaint but decided to reject it. Mrs F remained 
unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Mrs F had raised the 
dispute too long after the payments had been made to successfully raise a chargeback. The 
investigator said that he didnt think HSBC couldve done more to prevent the scam when it 
stopped the first two payments in June 2017 as there were no warnings about N until after 
the payments had been made. And that the £13,000 payment she made wasnt sufficiently 
unusual compared to her previous account activity. 
Mrs F disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said that the payments 
she made towards the scam were unusual because they were made internationally, and 
some of her previous large payments had been to savings accounts in her own name. She 
added that HSBC failed to ask her probing questions in 2017 about the payments and if it 
had then it wouldve more than likely uncovered the scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mrs F has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Ive firstly considered whether HSBC shouldve done more to stop all the payments Mrs F 
made towards this scam. It is common ground that Mrs F authorised the scam payments 
totalling £15,000. I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mrs F was the 
victim of a scam. So, although it wasnt her intention to pay money to the scammers, Mrs F 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice at the time, there are circumstances where it might be 
appropriate for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I have looked into what this means for this case and whether HSBC should have done 
more here to prevent the payments in dispute.
Here, Mrs F sent three payments in June 2017. Although they were sent internationally, the 
payments were for relatively small amounts of £750, £1,000 and £250. Mrs F says HSBC 
stopped the first two payments and spoke to her, but it failed to ask any probing questions 
about why the payment was being made. HSBC has said that due to the passage of time it 
no longer has a record of those conversations. So, I need to decide whether HSBC asking 
any questions of Mrs F at the time wouldve  more likely than not - made a difference. 
I think it would be worth mentioning here that although HSBC was expected to be on the 
lookout at the time for unusual payments to help prevent a customer losing their money, its 
knowledge of well-known cryptocurrency scams, at the time the payments were made in 
June 2017, wouldnt have been at the same level it is now. And I also cant reasonably hold 
HSBC to a later and more stringent standard provided by later regulations and good 
practice. 
So, in order for HSBC to step in and clearly tell Mrs F this was likely a scam and provide her 
with a clear fraud and scams warning it would need to be satisfied that  at the time of the 
payments  thats what N was doing. 
Unfortunately, there are a great deal of diverse and sophisticated scams for both banks and 
consumers to try and stay safe from. The sheer volume of potential risks somewhat limits the 
expectations on the ability for HSBC to identify and keep track of every scam: it is not 
expected to act as a detective or regulator. But one way to counter such fraudulent activity 
and protect consumers is to take note of the regulators information and warnings.
Crucially, Ive seen that there were only warnings about N from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and other international countries after the payments were made. So, HSBC 
wouldnt have had any persuasive and clear regulatory information to refer to here. 
Based upon what I know, Mrs F was convinced by a very sophisticated scam that she was 
investing in a genuine firm and potentially prosperous venture. Shes said in her evidence to 
this service that she recalls N explaining how the investment worked and that it seemed 
friendly and positive. She was asked to provide ID to verify her account, given passwords to 
access it and required to download a trading app which installed confidence in her that N 
was a genuine company. Ive also noted Mrs F still thought this was a genuine investment opportunity five months 
later when she agreed to invest a much larger sum. Indeed, its common ground that Mrs F 
only began to entertain doubts because N ceased communication with her. Naturally, HSBC 
wouldve been unaware of this at the time of the first payments, given the sequence of 
events. So, Im persuaded - on balance  that Mrs F wouldve likely relayed this confidence 
in the purpose of the payments to HSBC if she had been questioned about why the payment 
was being made.  
I also wouldnt expect HSBC to pay too much attention to online reviews that may have been 
available because its not possible to verify those comments. That would be up to the 
consumer to review and consider before entering into an investment or sending payments to 
a merchant. 
So, overall, I dont think  on balance - HSBC could reasonably have concluded during a 
telephone conversation with Mrs F that N was more likely than not operating a scam. 
And because the next and much larger payment of £13,000 wasnt sent until November 
2017, Im satisfied the earlier international payments, and the conversation Ive mentioned 
above, created a pattern of spending on Mrs Fs account that meant sending further 
international payments wouldnt have seemed unusual. So, I dont think the payments being 
international meant that, in this case, HSBC couldve reasonably stepped in here. 
I note Mrs F has said that the size of the payments she made to N were sufficiently unusual 
for her account and this shouldve been noticed by HSBC. But I dont agree. As the 
investigator has mentioned, Mrs F did make payments to other accounts, albeit to some in 
her name, ranging from £4,500 to £15,000. Im satisfied these payments established a 
pattern of spending on her account where it wasnt unusual for her to send larger payments 
from time to time.
So, that means I dont think HSBC shouldve taken any further action to stop the payment 
and speak to Mrs F about it. Overall, I dont think the later payment made to the scam stood 
out as sufficiently unusual that its reasonable to have expected HSBC to have intervened. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
So, Ive considered whether HSBC acted reasonably after it was made aware of the scam. 
Here the payments were made via a debit card. But Im afraid the investigator was correct 
when he said the claim was made more than 540 days after the payments were sent which 
means they were outside of the relevant rules of the scheme. So, HSBC didnt treat Mrs F 
unfairly by not raising a chargeback here. 
Im sorry to hear Mrs F has been a victim in this way, but I dont think HSBC are responsible 
for her loss and so I cant fairly ask them to do more.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman