DRN-2972228
The complaint
Mr C complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a claim 
under his home insurance policy and that his premium went up as a result of the claim.
What happened
Mr C has a home insurance policy with LV which covers the buildings and contents of his 
home, amongst other things. He made a claim in December 2020 after a storm which he 
says caused damage to his roof. 
Whilst the claim was being considered, he received an annual renewal notification. The 
proposed premium had increased by around 50% on the previous years payment.
Mr C rang LV several times to discuss the claim and had to chase LV when they didnt 
respond as and when theyd promised.
The claim was declined. LV said the damage to the roof was the result of wear and tear and 
gradual causes and not primarily the storm.
Mr C complained to LV. They agreed that the customer service Mr C received wasnt perfect 
and awarded him £50 in compensation as a gesture of goodwill. However, they maintained 
that the decision to decline the claim was correct.
Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think LV had done anything wrong.
Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr C is disputing that the £50 compensation awarded by LV is sufficient to 
compensate him for the poor service LV have admitted he received. 
In any case, I think it is fair and reasonable. LV have agreed that they didnt provide great 
service on a couple of occasions. The result was some understandable frustration and 
annoyance for Mr C, but theres no suggestion this delayed things significantly or had any 
impact on the outcome of the claim
Mr Cs premium has now been adjusted, after the closure of his claim. Because this didnt 
result in LV paying out to cover Mr Cs costs, they recorded it as an incident only claim. 
This understandably has less of an impact on the following years premium. As I understand 
it, the reduction  of around £250  brings Mr Cs premium back to just under what it had 
been the previous year.
This brings me to the decision to decline the claim. I know Mr C will be disappointed, but I 
dont think that decision was unfair or unreasonable given the information and evidence 
available to LV. Ill explain why.
The vast majority of buildings insurance policies are intended to cover unforeseen or 
unexpected events or accidents that cause damage to the structure of the home. Theyre not 
intended to provide cover when parts of the building wear out, fall into disrepair or go beyond 
their expected useful life.
I think most customers understand and accept that distinction. And, in any case, its usually 
clearly set out in the policy documents themselves.
For example, Mr Cs policy document says:
We will not pay for. any claim arising from anything which happens gradually 
including deterioration or wear and tear
And the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) sent to Mr C when he bought the 
policy - and at each renewal  says: 
What is not insured?.....
Wear and Tear such as slipped roof tiles or worn carpets.
There is no dispute in Mr Cs case that there was a storm at the time in question. And I dont 
think its disputed that the storm led to tiles slipping down and/or coming off the roof.
But LV are entitled to ask whether the storm was the effective, primary cause of damage to 
an otherwise sound and well-maintained roof or whether it simply served to highlight pre-
existing problems with the roof due to gradual deterioration or wear and tear.
If the roof was in good order and the storm was the sole or primary cause of the damage, LV 
should pay for the repairs. But if the storm was simply the event that brought out pre-existing 
issues, theyre entitled to decline the claim. In other words, the policy isnt there to buy Mr C 
a new roof whenever his existing one has worn out and finally gives up the ghost.
Mr C provided LV with statements from his roofer, who came to give a quote for the repair 
work. The first of these simply gave a price for the repairs, saying the damage had been 
caused because:
high winds had blown off and dislodged many tiles 
Mr C later asked the roofer to provide some further information and he said:
it was all storm damage related works
When it was pointed out that all those statements really show is that the damage was 
evident after the storm  and didnt answer the question whether there was pre-existing wear 
and tear or deterioration - Mr C went back to his roofer, who provided the following 
statement:
 all the damage was very evidently caused by the high winds and would certainly 
be classified as storm damage. It was not frost and thaw damage.On the other hand, LV have a report from an independent surveyor they appointed to assess 
the damage.
This goes into some detail in analysing the damage to the roof. It points out that many of the 
missing tiles are in fact broken off where they overlap with tiles above or below. The top 
part of the tile remains in place. The surveyor suggests this is more typical of frost damage 
or weathering and isnt typical of tiles dislodged by lifting due to high winds.
The report also notes that where tiles are missing or broken off, the tiles beneath are 
weathered, which suggests they have been exposed for some time. In some cases, those 
exposed tiles appear to have moss growing on them.
It also notes that some tiles are split  these appear on the photographs provided to be split 
vertically or diagonally. Again, the expert says, this would not be typical of wind damage. He 
also points out that some of the split tiles have undisturbed moss growth around them.
The report also refers to at least one tile which has slipped from just underneath the lead 
flashing on a chimney. The relevant photograph shows a neat space where the tile has 
gone. The flashing and the other tiles around it havent been lifted or disturbed, as one might 
expect if the missing tile had been lifted off the roof by high winds. 
The surveyor also notes that the ridge tiles on the roof have mortar missing due to wear and 
tear. Whilst these werent affected by the storm in question, it does indicate that the roof has 
not been maintained in a good state of repair.
Finally, the report says that the clay tiles on the roof appear to be original  the house was 
built in the 1920s (approximately)  and that such tiles are prone to frost and general 
weathering damage. 
Looking at the two sources of evidence about the likely causes of the damage, I dont think 
its surprising  or unfair or unreasonable - that LV decided to decline the claim. 
Mr Cs roofers honesty isnt in question, but he does appear to be saying only that the tiles 
came down during the storm. He hasnt really provided any analysis of the root cause of the 
damage or commented on whether the tiles may have already been weak, cracked or 
dislodged. On the other hand, the surveyor has provided a cogent and detailed explanation 
of how and why the damage is likely to have occurred.
Mr C has perfectly reasonably suggested that the surveyor isnt truly independent, given that 
hes being paid by LV. I take that point, although I would say that Im judging the surveyors 
report on its merits, not on where it came from. And it is difficult to see how LV could engage 
expert advice on claims without paying for it themselves.
In summary, at present, given the evidence currently available, I cant say LV have acted in 
any way unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr C in declining his claim. 
If Mr C wished to appoint another qualified surveyor to assess the damage, Id expect LV to 
take any further report into account and re-consider their stance. And if that led to them 
paying out on the claim, Id also expect them to reimburse Mr Cs costs of obtaining the 
report. But in the absence of any further information or evidence at present, I cant conclude 
that the decision to decline the claim was unfair or unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman