DRN-2851812
The complaint
The estate of Mrs R complains that the credit agreement for a charge card issued by Marks 
& Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank (MSB) is unenforceable.
What happened
The estate of Mrs R (who I will refer to as Est Mrs R) is dealing with the affairs of Mrs R who 
sadly died on 20 April 2020. Mrs R signed a charge card agreement on 27 January 2003 and 
the card was issued. In November 2003, the charge card account was changed to a credit 
card. As at March 2021, the credit card balance was £11879 debit. 
Est Mrs R argue that the credit agreement isnt legible and is therefore unenforceable. And  
it doesnt provide for interest rate changes  so MSB were wrong to change interest rates, 
leading to unreasonable interest margins being charged. Est Mrs R ask for a refund of all the 
interest charged since 2003.
MSB said the copy of the agreement was legible and therefore enforceable. There would be 
no refund of interest. The amount of the debt was correct and should be repaid by Est Mrs 
R.
Est Mrs R brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator initially agreed that the 
copy of the agreement sent to Est Mrs R wasnt legible and she sent another, better copy to 
Est Mrs R. This was legible. She said the credit agreement stated that the interest rate for 
the charge card was 18.9% APR for purchases. Since the card was converted to a credit 
card, monthly statements had shown the interest rate applicable  so theyd been clearly 
communicated to Mrs R. 
Est Mrs R disagreed. They said the agreement didnt comply with the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in several ways. They said the signature box signed by MSB wasnt completed 
properly. The right to cancel isnt legible. The agreement didnt set out the amount of credit 
or total charge for credit, nor did it indicate the protection and remedies available under the 
act. There was no provision for a reduction in interest rates in line with market rates  so 
MSB had unfairly profited. Est Mrs R asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that this service exists to resolve, impartially, disputes between 
consumers and financial businesses  on an informal, practical basis. We are not a legal 
practice and therefore Im not going to give a decision on the legality of the agreement in 
question. But I will comment on what happened from a practical point of view. Est Mrs R 
argue that the agreement isnt enforceable, and it doesnt provide for a reduction in interest 
rates.
I can see that Mrs R applied for a charge card from MSB in 2003. The agreement was 
signed by her on 27 January 2003. MSB countersigned it on 28 January 2003. Ive seen the 
card statements and the debt as at March 2021 was £11879. 
Ive seen the copy of the agreement and its clearly legible. I can see that MSB signed it in 
the date box and the date is shown as 28 January 2003 (in the signature box). Id observe 
that I dont think this makes the agreement unenforceable. Id further observe that such an 
agreement cannot set out the total charge for credit  as it isnt a fixed sum/fixed term loan  
it was a credit card with a revolving and fluctuating amount of debt  so the amount of 
interest also varied each month, depending on the balance outstanding. But  I can see on 
the monthly statements sent to Mrs R that the amount of interest payable each month was 
set out, together with an estimated interest amount based on the assumption that the 
minimum payment was made.
In the terms and conditions which accompanied the agreement it says YOUR RIGHT TO 
CANCELOnce you have signed, you will have a short time the right to cancel this 
Agreement. You can do this by sending or taking a written notice of cancellation to. So  
Mrs Rs right to cancel was set out.
The charge card was changed to a credit card in November 2003. At that time, charge card 
customers of MSB were sent a letter which said, when you receive your (MSB) credit card 
the interest ratewill reduce to the new rate of 14.9% APR (variable). 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the credit card  MSB say these accompanied the 
agreement. They say that interest rates are variable. At section 6, they say: Interest is 
chargeableWe will give at least 14 days notice of any variation to the interest rates. 
Variation of interest rates can be notified solely by publication in at least 3 national 
newspapers. The interest rate is currently as followsAPR Purchases 18.9% variable So 
 the interest rate was advised, and it was also said to be variable.
Ive also seen the monthly credit card statements since 2015 to March 2021. They set out 
the amount of debt, purchases made, repayments and resulting balance. They all state the 
current rate of interest applicable at the time. And, the amount of interest payable each 
month. They also indicate the estimated amount of interest for the next month, based on the 
assumption that the minimum payment was made. MSB told us that Mrs R never questioned 
the interest rates. So  on an ongoing basis, the interest payable was set out each month.
As I said, this service isnt going to opine or decide on legal matters. But for me, from a 
practical point of view, the original agreement and terms and conditions are legible and clear 
in their content. And  the right of MSB to vary interest rates  and their obligations to advise 
these - is also clear. And on an ongoing basis, the interest rates and how the agreement was 
operating in a practical sense was also clear.
This will conclude the extent of this services involvement in this matter  if Est Mrs R wish to 
challenge the legality of the agreement, its their right to do so  but through the appropriate 
legal processes available. 
 
(continued)
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman