DRN-2811764
The complaint
Ms L complains that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd mis-sold her car insurance.
What happened
In June 2019, Ms L took out a car insurance policy with Right Choice. In December 2019 she 
was unfortunately involved in her a car accident and her vehicle was written off. In February 
2019 she purchased a new vehicle and got in touch with Right Choice about insuring it.
Ms L says that she contacted Right Choice with the intention of taking out a new policy. She 
says shed received a quote for around £1,000 for her new vehicle for the year, but also 
contacted Right Choice to compare. The price quoted was £888.73 and as Ms L had 
previously taken out her insurance with Right Choice and that insurer, she went ahead with 
this quote in March 2020.
Ms L was then contacted by Right Choice in May 2020 about her up-coming policy renewal 
in June 2020. At this point Ms L raised a complaint as she said she had wanted to take out a 
new annual policy and instead it became clear her new car had instead been added to her 
existing policy and so the cost she paid was only for three months cover.
Right Choice didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint. It said that it was clear in the call with Ms L and 
in the paperwork what she was taking out. And so that this was a swap of vehicle rather than 
a new policy. Ms L brought her complaint t our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. 
Ms L asked for a decision as she said she wasnt clear about what she was opting into and 
she wouldnt have paid the price she did for only a few months cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Ms Ls testimony in relation to what she intended to buy when she called up Right 
Choice. But in order for me to uphold her complaint, I would have to be satisfied Right 
Choice made a mistake  and I dont think it has here.
Ive listened to the call between Ms L and Right Choice when she changes the car on her 
existing policy. She explains her old car was written off and she now has a new one. At this 
point she pauses and the Right Choice agent asks her if she wants to swap it over (in 
relation to her insurance). And she replies Yes. At no point in the call does Ms L say she is 
looking for a brand-new policy, so I cant see that Right Choice had any indication it wasnt 
doing what she wanted. From what Ms L has told us, she needed to say No to that 
question.
In the call the advisor also says:
with the vehicle change from the [old car] to the [new car], with adding your son on 
there and then obviously your change of address, the new additional premium for 
that...
The advisor also says later in the call about the further cost being an additional premium for 
all three changes. So Im satisfied the language used all suggested that the existing policy 
was still in force and changes were being made to it, rather than a new policy was being set 
up.
Ms L was then sent paperwork by email which included her policy schedule. This sets out 
theres been a mid-term adjustment to her policy and that it expires in June 2020. I 
understand Ms Ls postal address wasnt updated by Right Choice, as it shouldve been, but 
as her documents were emailed to the correct email, this doesnt impact my decision.
I do understand why Ms L is unhappy that shes paid nearly the same price for a few months 
cover than shed found for a years cover elsewhere. However I cant hold Right Choice 
responsible for this. I cant say it mistakenly swapped over Ms Ls policy instead of setting 
her up a new one, as Im satisfied it followed her instructions on the call. And it then sent her 
paperwork to her email which confirmed the cover that had been set up  so she had the 
opportunity to contact it to query this at that time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman