DRN-4215402
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) automatically 
renewed his motor insurance policy and tried to take payment from him.
What happened
Mr S was insured through Hastings for a couple of years and he asked Hastings to disable 
the automatic renewal of his motor insurance policy. 
He then also bought another motor policy online from Hastings alongside his existing one. 
This new policy was due to renew in January 2023. 
The renewal quote from Hastings wasnt to his satisfaction so Mr S arranged cover to start 
with another company.
Hastings then contacted him and told him that his policy had been renewed automatically. 
He complained to Hastings and sad he wanted to cancel this policy. Hastings told him it 
would charge him £20 to cancel it. Mr S refused to pay this, so Hastings said it would take 
the payment from a card hed used to pay for an amendment to the policy hed made during 
2022.
Hastings explained that he hadnt asked for his policy to not be auto-renewed. It said it would 
waive the £20 fee.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He complains that hed 
asked Hastings to not automatically renew his policy and that it stored his card details 
without his permission and would have used it to take further payments from him.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and thought it wouldnt be upheld. He said he 
thought Hastings had explained what had happened with the automatic renewal. And 
because itd waived the £20 charge, Mr S hadnt suffered a financial loss. He said Hastings 
had explained its ability to take payments from Mr Ss card.
Mr S didnt accept the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so its has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
I can see from Hastings records that Mr S asked for a policy to not auto-renew in 2020. But 
its important I say that related to a policy in force at that time. Hastings didnt auto-renew 
that policy.
Mr S then bought a new policy in January 2022 and set it up online himself. As part of that 
process, I can see he would have been shown instructions that his policy would auto-renew 
and that he would be contacted around 21 days prior to the renewal. This would allow him 
time to cancel the policy before renewal.
Hastings then offered renewal to him in early 2023 and the renewal instructions said it would 
auto-renew and what he needed to do to stop this. 
The details he was sent included:
Your policy is currently set to automatically renew so, your new insurance cover w/ill 
automatically start on your renewal date. You can opt out of the automatic renewal 
process at any time. Simply change your preferences in the app or MyAccount or 
give us a call.
It seems to me that Mr S either didnt read this notice or didnt understand the implications of 
it. But I think its meaning is clear and even if Mr S still thought hed set this policy to not auto-
renew, the letter explains what he needs to do.
I can see he was then charged a £20 fee for the cancelation, but Hastings then waived it. 
I think Hastings explanation of what happened is reasonable and I think its fair that it re-
applied the auto-renewal to a new policy. I know Mr S will disagree with this, but I cant fairly 
hold Hastings responsible for him not realising auto-renewal was on because of the 
message shown him when he setup the policy, and the clear instructions given to him at 
renewal.
Mr S also complains about Hastings ability to take payments. It does this under a process 
called Continuous Payment Authority (CPA). 
Mr S has told this service he used a bank card to make a payment to Hastings when he 
made a change to this policy in 2022. I can see from Hastings evidence that when it takes 
payment, it sets up a CPA using the card details Mr S used to pay for the change hed made.  
The CPA states that it can be cancelled by Mr S. The renewal details sent to him about 21 
days before renewal was due include further details about how the CPA can be used, 
including payments to be made for the new policy once renewal had passed. 
The use of CPA is also included in the policy terms and conditions and Mr Ss policy 
schedule. When he used his card to make a payment, Mr S was also shown a notice that 
included:
Well set up a continuous payment authority
By making a payment youre agreeing to let us use these details for any future 
payments linked to your policy. This could include:
Any administration or cancellation fees.
You can cancel this continuous payment authority as any time by contacting us.
I think Hastings did reasonably tell Mr S about the fact a CPA was in use and what he could 
do if he didnt want it. I cant see that Mr S did cancel the CPA, so I think Hastings were 
reasonably entitled to use the authority. Ultimately, Hastings didnt use the CPA and it waived the fee it could have reasonably 
charged and I think this was a fair and reasonable response.
In later correspondence with this service, Mr S asks further questions about who stored his 
data as Hastings uses a third-party company to handle payments.
If I turn to the information given to Mr S when he adjusted his policy in 2022, it says:
These details will be held securely by a third party.
I think its clear about where his data was being held. But this service isnt the expert on data 
protection law. If Mr S has any further concerns about the use of his data then he may wish 
to approach the appropriate regulatory body which is the Information Commissioners Office.
Its clear to me that Hastings told Mr S about the renewal, the CPA and how it would use his 
information both during the policy and at renewal. So I dont think Hastings has behaved 
unfairly and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman