DRN-3793646
The complaint
Mrs H complains about advice given by PrisWM Limited (PWM) to transfer defined benefits 
She held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable and believes it has caused her a financial loss.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 26 October 2022. Ive recapped the background below:
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit (DB) pension schemes 
when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was eventually closed to further benefit 
accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by the Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new defined benefits 
pension scheme, BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being 
satisfied.
Concerned about what the above announcement meant for the security of the benefits she 
and her husband had accrued in the BSPS, Mr and Mrs H approached PWM in June 2017 
for advice. Mrs H had accrued 11 years and 8 months qualifying service and was offered a 
cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £100,685.73. Mr H had accrued significantly more 
qualifying service and was offered a CETV of almost £400,000.
A fact find and risk profile were completed and, in summary, PWM recorded the following:
Mr and Mrs H were 40 and 41 years old, respectively, and in good health. They had 
two financially dependent children, one of whom had mild Cerebral Palsy which they 
thought might impact his ability to afford his own home in the future.
They were employed, with Mrs H earning around £12,900 pa and Mr H earning 
around £35,000 pa. 
Mrs H held a small final salary pension in a local government pension scheme 
(LGPS) valued at £4,500 pa and Mr H was contributing to a new British Steel defined 
contribution (DC) scheme valued at £2,500 pa. They had two life cover policies for 
£80,000 and £52,000.
They held investments and savings totaling around £120,000. They also owned their 
own home, valued at around £300,000, with 12 years remaining on an outstanding 
mortgage for £48,000. 
Their attitude to risk (ATR) was Highest medium. In terms of objectives, they 
wanted to be comfortable in retirement and provide substantial funds to help their 
children get on the property ladder.
PWMs notes from meetings with Mr and Mrs H also noted the following:
They wanted to be viewed as a couple for the purpose of PWMs advice and hoped 
to retire before age 65, possibly around age 57, at which point Mr H thought hed 
work part-time. 
Mr H wanted to take benefits flexibly and didnt see the benefit of having a pension 
paid at a consistent level when his income needs were likely to be lower in later 
years.
Mrs H said that she was aware of the benefits shed be giving up by transferring, 
such as a guaranteed, escalating pension for life and a spouses pension. But she 
was satisfied that, given her and Mr Hs financial position, theyd have enough to live 
off in retirement. She didnt think theyd deplete their pension funds as they were 
always careful with money.
She also appreciated that shed be taking on investment risk and the risk of her 
pension fund being depleted. However, she was reassured by the long investment 
horizon shed have following a transfer.
PWM explained that Mr and Mrs H would be missing out on valuable pension 
increases if they transferred. However, Mrs H wasnt bothered about this, noting that 
shed built up benefits in her LGPS which would provide a guaranteed pension.
Mrs H felt that transferring was the best way for her and her husband to achieve their 
retirement goals. She was concerned that, if her pension fell into the PPF or benefits 
changed under BSPS2, shed lose the opportunity to transfer at a later date.
The death benefits available from a DC scheme were important to Mrs H as she 
wanted to leave something for her children when she died.
Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) reports were produced, and in August 2017 PWM sent Mr 
and Mrs H suitability reports with their respective TVAS reports enclosed. In summary, 
amongst other things, PWM said the following in Mrs Hs suitability report:
Mrs H aimed to retire at age 57 and would like the option to access her funds flexibly, 
taking a higher income in the early years of retirement.
Mrs H wanted to be able to take the maximum Tax-Free Cash (TFC) and other 
income from her pension to help her sons each purchase a property. 
Mrs H wanted her beneficiaries to benefit from her full fund if she died. 
Mrs H had concerns about the stability of the BSPS and the security of her funds in 
the scheme. She also didnt trust the PPF or believe in its ability to take on the full 
BSPS liabilities. 
If Mrs H took early retirement, her pension would be greatly reduced, so this wasnt 
advisable. Her BSPS pension would offer much better benefits if she retired early.
No cashflow analysis had been carried out as Mrs H was 16 years away from 
retirement and didnt know how much shed need to meet living costs. This would be 
covered by PWM in annual reviews closer to Mrs Hs retirement.
Mr and Mrs H had other investments as well as Mrs Hs LGPS pension which she 
was still contributing to, so they were diversified in terms of assets. Theyd also 
receive inheritances from their parents when they died which could offset the 
investment risk associated with transferring.
Mrs Hs BSPS pension made up the sizeable proportion of her pension benefits, so 
it was vitally important that she had full control over her funds. 
Despite having life cover in place, Mrs H felt Mr H would benefit from an extra lump 
when she died. 
In terms of ATR, Mrs H didnt consider it appropriate to expose herself to anything 
other than a low amount of risk in the hope of increasing her pension benefits. 
Based on contributions she was making to her DC scheme, along with savings and 
investments, Mrs H thought she could tolerate medium losses.PWM recommended that Mrs H transfer to a SIPP to increase death benefits for her 
husband and children; increase flexibility to retire early at age 57 and secure a higher 
income in early years; and to provide £200,000 to fund home deposits for her sons. 
Following the transfer, PWM recommended that Mrs H place 48.5% of her funds in 
the Premier Liberation V fund, 48.5% in the Vanguard Life Strategy 60% Equity fund, 
with the remaining 3% held in Cash.
Mr Hs suitability report repeated many of the same things set out in Mrs Hs report. PWM 
recommended that Mr H transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP and invest in the same way it 
advised Mrs H to.
Mr and Mrs H signed Client Declarations provided by PWM which, amongst other things, 
confirmed they accepted the risks associated with transferring; understood the benefits they 
were surrendering; were aware of the costs of the new arrangement; and recognised that 
there was no guarantee the new plans would provide greater retirement benefits than the 
BSPS in retirement. Following this, Mr and Mrs H accepted PWMs recommendation.
Due to a positive change in the funding situation of the BSPS, updated CETVs were issued. 
By mid-August 2017 Mr and Mrs Hs BSPS CETVs were transferred to two new SIPPs. Mrs 
Hs new SIPP value was £102,943.54, while Mr Hs was over £400,000. 
Mr and Mrs H met with PWM at various points in late 2018 to discuss the performance of 
their investments. Following these discussions, changes were made to Mr and Mrs Hs 
investment strategy. 
By March 2020, Mrs Hs pension fund had grown to £121,046.81, while Mr Hs had grown to 
over £430,000. In June 2020 Mr and Mrs H cancelled their ongoing advice service with PWM 
and transferred their pension funds to another provider.
In March 2022, Mr H approached our service to complain about the suitability of the advice 
that he and Mrs H received from PWM in 2017. The complaint was referred to PWM and, in 
summary, it later responded with the following:
Mr and Mrs H had been scathing about the BSPS and wanted to get out of it.
At all times PWM had fully understood, questioned, and documented Mr and Mrs Hs 
financial situation, objectives, priorities, and ATR. And, by presenting a balanced 
view, Mr and Mrs H fully understood the benefits they were giving up.
Mr and Mrs Hs basic needs and objectives couldnt be met without transferring.
It disagreed that unsuitable advice was given and pointed to Mr and Mrs H having 
received net growth of around 4.8% on their funds each year.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept this, so they asked our Service to investigate their complaints.
PWM provided our Service with documents from the time of the advice.
Because no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision. And 
my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken 
note of the extensive arguments made, the purpose of my decision isnt to comment on 
every point raised. Because of this, Ive limited my response to the issue I consider to be 
central to this complaint. That is to say, whether the advice PWM gave Mrs H was suitable.Mr and Mrs H asked PWM to treat them as a couple for advice purposes, however, while 
they were financially dependent on each other and shared assets, the advice they sought 
concerned the BSPS benefits theyd accrued individually. PWM later advised Mr and Mrs H 
to transfer these benefits and make individual investments. Because of this, Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaints have been considered separately, bearing in mind obvious points of overlap and 
repetition with the advice given.
The regulators position
At the time of PWMs advice, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set out 
the principles for assessing suitability. The relevant rules are 9.2.1 and 9.2.2 as set out in the 
FCAs Handbook and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). These required PWM to gather 
sufficient information from Mrs H to ensure its recommendation met her objectives; that Mrs 
H could financially withstand the risks associated with these objectives and that Mrs H had 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
I dont think all the factors in deciding suitability were met in this case. Im not satisfied PWM 
went far enough in terms of gathering and recording enough information about Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances; adequately exploring and interrogating their objectives or satisfactorily 
evaluating, explaining, and documenting the associated risks with transferring. Because of 
this I dont think it was reasonable for PWM to conclude that transferring was a suitable 
course of action for Mrs H to take.
DB schemes like Mrs Hs BSPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving 
these up and subjecting future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable 
investment returns should only be done where it can be shown its clearly in the best 
interests of the consumer. Under 19.1.6 the COBS rules at the time of the advice said:
When advising a retail client who is () a member of a defined benefits occupational 
pension scheme (), a firm should start by assuming that a transfer () will not be suitable. 
A firm should only consider a transfer () to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, () is in the retail clients best interests. 
Given the regulators position, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
So, PWM shouldve only considered a transfer to a SIPP if there were compelling reasons 
why, instead of maintaining safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, the transfer was in Mrs Hs 
best interests  merely meeting her apparent objectives wouldnt, in my view, be enough. 
Generally, a transfer is only likely to be in the consumers best interests if theres a 
reasonable prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The 
transfer will also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular 
circumstances.
Mrs Hs position at the time of PWMs advice
Although Mr H approached PWM for advice about transferring out of the BSPS and PWM 
has said Mr and Mrs H were scathing in their comments about it, I dont think this meant that 
transferring was automatically the best route to go down. Mr and Mrs H clearly had concerns 
about the scheme and while this may have indicated that Mrs H was open to transferring, I 
believe the fact she was seeking financial advice more likely demonstrates that she was only 
willing to transfer if this was in her best interests. And thats what I think Mrs H wanted from 
PWM  advice about her options and confirmation of what was in her best interests 
regarding her BSPS benefits and retirement objectives. As a retail client, I think PWM could 
be confident that Mrs H would be acting upon, or at least relying on, its advice.
At the time of the advice, Mrs H was 41 years old and had accrued moderate qualifying service in the BSPS shed held with her former employer. Other than her small LGPS 
pension and state pension entitlement, Mrs Hs BSPS benefits were the backbone of her 
retirement provision. When considered in comparison to the significant level of benefits her 
husband has secured under the BSPS, it was obvious that Mr Hs BSPS benefits 
represented the largest proportion of the couples total future retirement income. So, Mrs H 
had a clear dependence on Mr Hs pension benefits as well as her own.
In terms of other assets Mr and Mrs H could potentially rely on if transferring didnt work out, 
they held £86,000 in investment bonds; £28,000 in Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs); 
£4,000 in cash savings and owned their own home. PWM recorded that Mr and Mrs H 
expected inheritances which it felt could offset the investment risk associated with 
transferring. However, it failed to collect any meaningful information about the anticipated 
inheritances, such as what they might comprise of or their expected value. So, Id question 
the basis on which it was able to conclude they could be relied on to mitigate risk.
Notwithstanding what Ive said about the inheritances, I accept that Mrs Hs financial position 
was, by all general appearances, fairly favourable. PWM recorded that Mr and Mrs H were 
satisfied theyd have enough to live off in retirement and didnt think there was any risk of 
their retirement funds being depleted, saying they were always careful with their money. 
Despite these views, the fact remains that Mrs H was dependent on PWMs expertise. She 
wasnt a pensions expert, so she wasnt in a position to effectively assess whether her 
financial circumstances meant it was appropriate to take additional risks with her BSPS 
benefits. It wasnt enough for PWM to rely on Mrs Hs satisfaction with her financial position 
or the inheritances she anticipated. It needed to establish her financial position at the outset, 
including her specific retirement needs, and make a reasonable assessment of the situation. 
Had PWM done so, I think it wouldve been clear that, for several reasons, Mrs H 
transferring out of the BSPS wasnt essential or worthwhile.
Financial Viability 
An important part of assessing the viability of a DB transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed) the benefits being given up by transferring out of the DB scheme. And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including the investors 
ATR, financial circumstances, and objectives.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable for a typical 
investor when the advice was given in this case.
Mrs H was 41 years old at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at age 57. The critical 
yield required to match Mrs Hs benefits at age 57 was 5.3% if she took a full pension and 
3.8% if she took TFC and a reduced pension. At age 65, the critical yield required to match 
Mrs Hs benefits was 5% if she took a full pension and 4% if she took TFC and a reduced 
pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 57 was 
quoted as 3.7% per year if Mrs H took a full pension and 3.5% per year if she took TFC and 
a reduced pension. At age 65, the critical yield required to match Mrs Hs benefits was 2.5% 
if she took a full pension and 2.8% if she took TFC and a reduced pension. 
This compares with the discount rate of 4.2% per year for 14 years to retirement at age 57 
and 4.5% for 22 years to retirement at age 65 in this case. For further comparison, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of 
assets in the discount rate, what PWM recorded as Mrs Hs ATR  Highest Medium  and 
the term to retirement. 
Thered be little point in Mrs H giving up the guarantees available to her through the BSPS 
only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the lowest 
critical yield was 2.5%, assuming Mrs H retired at age 65. But PWMs transfer advice was 
partly based on Mrs H retiring at age 57. The critical yields required for this and her wish to 
take maximum TFC was 3.8% or 3.5% to match benefits available under the PPF.
These were lower than both the discount rate deemed achievable over the same period, and 
the mid-band growth rate used by the regulator, however, I think the case for whether they 
were achievable and Mrs H would be better off as a result of transferring, was borderline. 
Although PWM said it believed the critical yields were achievable, it acknowledged theyd 
actually need to be even higher, taking into account plan charges, adviser fees and fund 
costs. And bearing in mind her term to retirement, I think its important to note that Mrs H 
would also need to achieve consistent investment returns each year on top of the critical 
yield, so that over time this accumulated into benefits of sufficiently greater value to have 
made the transfer worthwhile. PWM also said the BSPS would offer much better benefits for 
early retirement, so transferring for this reason wasnt an advisable course of action. And I 
agree. Im not persuaded that the likelihood the critical yields were achievable was to such 
an extent that it was worth taking the risk transferring involved, even considering Mrs Hs 
other objectives, which Ill comment on later.
PWM recorded Mrs Hs ATR as Highest Medium (7 on a scale of 1-10) which was 
expected to produce returns of 5-6% pa and described as someone whose priority was 
making higher investment returns, who was more comfortable and better able to adapt to 
losing money on their investment.  Given some of her answers to the risk questionnaire, I 
can see how this ATR result and a belief in Mrs Hs willingness to take above average risks 
with her investments was reached. But her answers needed to be considered in the context 
of her overall circumstances. A willingness to accept a degree of risk isnt the only factor to 
consider in providing suitable advice. The degree of risk Mrs H was able to take was also 
material  her capacity to accept losses in the context was a key consideration. 
As PWM acknowledged, Mrs Hs BSPS benefits made up the sizeable proportion of the 
retirement income she held in her own name. Although, as mentioned earlier, Mrs Hs was 
dependent on Mr Hs benefits, her own contribution to her and her husbands overall future 
retirement income couldnt be ignored. Any significant loss of this would have an impact on 
Mr and Mrs Hs total retirement provision and, beyond that, their children, who they also 
wished to make provision for in later life. Despite this, in terms of capacity for loss, PWM 
said Mrs H agreed that she could tolerate medium losses. 
Although Mrs H may have thought she could withstand medium losses to her pension, I dont 
think it was appropriate for PWM to rely on this alone to reach a determination about her 
capacity for loss, particularly when it was meant to be considering this bearing in mind Mrs 
Hs long-term position and not just how she felt in that moment. Independent of what Mrs H 
perceived her capacity for loss to be, PWM needed to carry out its own evaluation. I cant 
see that it did this and so I dont think its conclusion regarding this was reached on a sound 
basis.
Its worth noting that PWMs suitability report also said that Mrs H didnt consider it 
appropriate to expose [herself] to anything other than a low amount of risk in the hope of 
increasing [her] pension benefits. This contradiction wasnt something PWM ever 
addressed. Although Mr and Mrs H wanted to be treated as a couple for the purposes of the advice, 
TWM still provided them with two individual pieces of advice. I think this was the right 
approach to take. TWM had a duty to consider Mrs Hs position as an individual and the 
pension provision she held in her own name, as well as her position as part of a couple and 
the shared assets which came with this. Although there was nothing to indicate Mr and Mrs 
H wouldnt remain married and therefore financially dependent on each other in retirement, I 
think the level of dependency Mrs H had on Mr H  by virtue of the size of his BSPS benefits 
  was such that it was important to ensure Mrs H understood the significance of this 
dependency; how vulnerable she (and her husband) could be if Mr Hs transfer didnt work 
out; and therefore, what the relative value of her own BSPS benefits were.
PWM didnt produce any cashflow models to show that by transferring Mrs H wouldve been 
able to meet her needs. But thats not surprising given the absence of any evidence showing 
that PWM tried to establish what Mrs Hs income needs in retirement were likely to be. 
In the suitability report, PWM said that as Mrs H didnt intend to retire for another 16 years, 
she didnt know how much money shed need, so this was something itd cover with her 
when she was closer to retirement. I have my doubts about this approach, as the closer     
Mrs H got to retirement, the shorter her investment horizon would be, providing less scope to 
meaningfully address any shortfall identified in what Mrs Hs retirement income needs were 
determined to be.
Although PWMs final response referred to a discussion taking place in which Mr and Mrs H 
confirmed that £24,000 pa was their income requirement in retirement, the meeting note Ive 
seen from this discussion doesnt reflect that. The note states that Mr and Mrs Hs existing 
income needs were £24,000 pa and that retirement was too far away to establish what their 
financial needs would be at that point. As a result, I think PWM failed to meet the regulators 
requirement that its advice took into account Mrs Hs relevant circumstances. 
Although, given the time to retirement, PWM may not have thought that establishing Mrs Hs 
retirement income needs was a priority, Im conscious that the main purpose of a pension is 
to meet this need. Other considerations, like flexibility and death benefits for example, are 
secondary to that, particularly where, as here, there was nothing to suggest Mrs H was in ill 
health, such that it wasnt expected that her BSPS pension would need to support her for a 
long time. So, its hard to see how PWM couldve advised Mrs H on what action to take with 
her existing pension provision without establishing what her specific retirement needs were 
likely to be.
A transfer wont automatically be suitable just because the critical yields are relatively low, 
however, it does give an indication of the degree of risk involved in the transaction and 
whether the transfer value represents good value in return for the benefits being given up. 
Nevertheless, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. 
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable. My understanding of 
PWMs position is that the basis of its recommendation was the benefit transferring had for 
Mrs H in terms of other objectives being met. 
Flexibility
PWM referred to Mrs Hs need for flexibility as a reason for recommending that she transfer. 
Specifically, it said that Mrs H wanted to retire early, at age 57, taking a higher income in the 
initial years of retirement. She also wanted to take the maximum TFC available so that she 
and her husband could provide their sons with deposits to purchase their first homes. 
In terms of retiring early, nothing was recorded to suggest this was an essential requirement 
or that Mrs H had concrete plans in this respect. Based on what Ive seen, saying Mrs H wanted to retire early wasnt a fully articulated objective. And as she had at least 16 years 
before she was thinking about accessing her pension, I think it was too soon for Mrs H to 
make any kind of decision about transferring out of the BSPS, especially not an irreversible 
one which could potentially leave her worse off in retirement. I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs H to give up her guaranteed benefits when she didnt know what 
her retirement needs would be. If Mrs H later had a genuine reason to transfer out of the 
BSPS, knowing at that point what her income requirements were, she could have done so 
closer to retirement.
Furthermore, early retirement was already an option available to Mrs H through the BSPS 
and the PPF (subject to a 10% reduction in benefits). And as PWM said in its suitability 
report, Mrs Hs pension would be greatly reduced if she transferred out of the BSPS for 
early retirement. Specifically, it said that this wasnt an advisable course of action, adding 
that the BSPS would provide Mrs H with much better benefits if she retired early. So, its 
concerning that, several paragraphs later, PWM went on to contradict itself and 
recommended that Mrs H take the very action it had just warned against  i.e. transferring to 
retire early. 
Regarding Mrs Hs desire to access her pension fund flexibly, PWM noted that she wanted 
to take a higher income in the early years of retirement. Very little detail about what flexibility 
really meant for Mrs H was gathered and certainly not enough to persuade me that it was a 
compelling reason for transferring. Theres also no evidence of any discussion regarding 
what level of income Mrs H anticipated taking in early retirement compared to later on and 
whether this was likely to be sustainable or make the risks associated with transferring, 
worthwhile. Without even basic information about Mrs Hs personal goals in this respect, I 
cant see how PWM could conclude that flexibility was a genuine need which transferring 
was likely to meet.
If I accept, which I dont, that Mrs H had a strong requirement for variable income in 
retirement, Id repeat my earlier point that she couldve remained in the BSPS until she had a 
genuine need to access her pension benefits in this way and transferred at that point if it was 
deemed necessary. 
As PWM recognised in its meeting notes, by transferring at 41 years old Mrs H would both 
miss out on valuable pension increases in deferral and, potentially, an increased transfer 
value. PWM said this raised serious alarm bells and that to transfer at that point without 
very good reason wouldnt be reasonable action to take. So, again, its unclear why PWM 
advised Mrs H to do just that.
I accept that the ability to vary the level of income withdrawn wasnt an available option 
under BSPS2 or PPF. However, as Ive said, this wasnt a clearly defined objective for      
Mrs H. Im also mindful that in addition to the LGPS pension Mrs H was contributing to, Mr 
and Mrs H also had investments and savings totalling in excess £100,000 which they could 
potentially access as a means to withdraw income flexibly if they needed to, while retaining 
Mrs Hs safeguarded benefits. I havent seen evidence that PWM adequately considered and 
discounted alternative courses of action to meet Mr and Mrs Hs early retirement objective 
and desire to enter retirement on their own terms. So, Im unable to agree with PWMs view 
that the only way to achieve this was by transferring to a SIPP. 
In its final response PWM said that Mr and Mrs Hs primary need was to access £200,000 
at age 57 to pay for houses for their sons. Although making provision for her children in the 
future was understandably important, I dont think it was reasonable for to this to have been 
given prominence over Mrs Hs own requirement to benefit from her accrued pension 
benefits. PWM had a duty to advise her that that her own financial benefit took priority here 
and that her desire to provide such substantial funds to her sons had to be properly weighed up against the guaranteed benefits PWM said she had to relinquish in order to make such 
provision. 
When asked, as part of the fact find, about their goals, Mr and Mrs H said, we hope to 
provide our two children with substantial funds to help them get on the property ladder. But, 
while this was clearly a consideration for Mr and Mrs H at the time, Im not persuaded that it 
was established as a principle requirement or that providing the £200,000 figure was crucial. 
Many people might want to provide for their children in retirement, but this can only happen if 
they have the financial means to do so while supporting themselves in retirement. As Mr and 
Mrs Hs likely needs in retirement werent established by PWM, I think the basis on which it 
went on to conclude that transferring to provide lump sums to their sons was flawed. Theres 
nothing to suggest that PWM ever questioned Mr and Mrs H about how they arrived at 
£200,000 deposit figure or why they wanted to provide this when Mr H was 57 years old. 
Although one of Mrs Hs sons had a mild disability, he was in mainstream school and not 
expected to be unable to work in the future or be a long-term dependent of Mr and Mrs H. 
Nothing was recorded about the needs of their second son.
So, providing each son with £100,000 doesnt seem to be something which PWM 
established was really necessary, certainly not to the extent that transferring and sacrificing 
Mrs Hs valuable BSPS benefits to achieve this was the best course of action for Mrs H to 
take. If anything, I think the lump sum amount was aspirational and it was for PWM, through 
discussion with Mrs H, to put this figure into perspective, establish what was feasible, 
manage expectations and, where applicable, help modify this objective to reflect the reality 
of her and her husbands financial circumstances.
PWMs suitability report for Mrs H didnt set out the specific lump sums which might be 
available to her at age 57 and age 65 under BSPS2 or the PPF. Nor did it provide any 
figures for what a SIPP might provide as an alternative. Given that Mrs H was exploring the 
idea of funding deposits for her sons using the proceeds of her BSPS benefits and relying 
PWMs advice about this, I think this was essential information for her to have in order to 
make an informed decision about what to do. 
The TVAS showed that under the BSPS Mrs H couldve received a TFC lump sum of 
£12,735.70 at age 57 and £20,117.65 at age 65. The estimated figures for lump sums 
available under BSPS2 and the PPF at different retirement intervals werent provided. 
However, as it was known at the time of the advice that BSPS2 would broadly secure the 
same level of benefits as the BSPS, while the PPF had better early retirement factors than 
BSPS2, it was clear that that neither the PPF or the BSPS2 could likely provide the lump 
sum being sought, even taking into account the lump sums which couldve been available to 
Mr H at age 57 (around £75,000) and age 65 (around £100,00) under the BSPS. 
However, I cant see that any consideration was given to whether Mrs Hs existing 
savings/investments, anticipated inheritance and the lump sum potentially available to her 
through her LGPS couldve helped her and her husband reach the sum they wanted to gift 
their sons, and if they didnt, whether this indicated an issue with the objective itself. I think 
this ought to have been explored before advising Mrs H to give up her guaranteed benefits.
Overall, I think PWM deprived Mr and Mrs H of the opportunity to seriously consider other 
ways of providing the deposits without subjecting Mrs Hs main retirement provision to 
avoidable risk. For example, contemplating whether providing lower deposits (more 
commensurate with Mr and Mrs Hs financial position) which could comfortably be 
accommodated through TFC available to Mr and Mrs H under BSPS2 or the PPF at different 
retirement intervals, or, using existing savings or anticipated inheritances to fund the 
deposits  all while keeping Mrs Hs own retirement needs a priority. Death benefits
Regarding death benefits, PWM recorded that Mrs H wanted her family to benefit from her 
full fund if she died without depleting it, instead of the prescribed death benefits the BSPS 
offered. PWM says that it advised Mrs H to transfer to a SIPP because of the increased and 
flexible death benefits available to her husband and children.
Its understandable that Mrs H wanted to ensure her husband and children benefited from 
her pension when she died. However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think PWM has 
provided sufficient evidence, demonstrating that transferring for this reason was worthwhile; 
that PWM met its obligation to provide Mrs H with enough information about the death 
benefits available under the BSPS and the PPF or that it had regard for the effect of 
replacing them with the benefits and options under a new arrangement.
PWMs suitability report briefly set out what Mrs Hs death benefit entitlement under the 
BSPS was  a spouses pension equal to 50% of the pension she was receiving and a lump 
sum of £6,068.53. It outlined, in general terms, death benefits available through a SIPP and 
made minimal references those under the PPF. 
The TVAS did set out in monetary terms what spouse and childrens death benefits under 
the BSPS could be depending on when, before taking benefits, Mrs H died. But there was 
nothing about what death benefits might look like under the PPF or a SIPP, even in general 
terms. Because of this, Im not satisfied that PWM put Mrs H in a position where she had a 
complete picture of what her various death benefit options were or that she fully understood 
them, such that she could make an informed decision about transferring for this reason.
Transferring to a SIPP did offer flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could 
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, lump sum, income drawdown 
or any combination of these. And for the period immediately following the transfer until Mrs H 
could take any retirement income, the death benefits available would, subject to investment 
performance, be significant because she couldnt access and deplete the fund value. But 
Mrs H was in good health, there was nothing suggest she couldnt expect a normal life 
expectancy and therefore require money from the SIPP to meet her income needs in 
retirement. So, this could mean that upon death the size of Mrs Hs SIPP fund remaining for 
her beneficiaries was more likely to be much smaller, particularly if investment returns were 
less favourable than expected.
In addition to setting out the death benefits available, PWM needed to establish what        
Mrs Hs specific needs in this regard were. Without doing so, it was impossible to say with 
any certainty what fund might reasonably be available to Mrs Hs beneficiaries based on her 
expected rate of income withdrawal and life expectancy and therefore how the SIPP might 
provide financial support for her husband and children further down the line. PWM ought to 
have discussed what, in real terms, Mrs Hs position on death benefits was and specifically 
how she wanted to provide for her husband and children in this respect  for example, why 
she thought Mr H would benefit from extra lump sum death benefits as opposed to a 
guaranteed ongoing spouse pension, and how much of a safety net her husband and 
children might require if she passed away.
Although Mr and Mrs H had two life cover policies for a total of £132,000, PWMs suitability 
report confirmed that to meet her death benefits objective it had considered the possibility of 
Mrs H purchasing additional life cover for £200,000. No explanation was provided for the 
£200,000 figure selected, however, this option was discounted as Mr and Mrs H already had 
life cover in place and didnt think it made sense to pay for more when this could be 
achieved by transferring. But PWM offered no comment on this viewpoint. It seemed to just accept Mrs Hs position and in doing so determined that transferring was the most 
appropriate course of action. This doesnt in my view constitute suitable advice.
Theres nothing to show that PWM considered any death in service cover Mrs H might have 
available due to her LGPS membership. As I understand it, if Mrs H was a member at the 
time of her death, a death in service lump sum based on three times her assumed pension 
at her date of death would be payable, which, like any life cover wouldve arguably bolstered 
her position where death benefits were concerned, without giving up guarantees.
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits offered by the SIPP justified the likely 
decrease in retirement benefits for Mrs H.
Concerns about the financial stability of the BSPS and benefits entering the PPF
PWM says that Mr and Mrs H were both worried about the basis of the BSPS changing and 
concerned that if this happened again in the future, they could lose the opportunity to 
transfer at a later date. In the suitability report PWM recorded that Mr and Mrs H were 
unsure of how their benefits might change under BSPS2 and didnt like that transfers would 
be restricted under the PPF. Because of this they preferred to remove their benefits from the 
BSPS entirely. 
Although this might suggest that, at the time, Mr and Mrs H may have already been leaning 
towards transferring, PWM still had a responsibility to address and appropriately manage 
their concerns. It ought to have explored, interrogated and, where necessary, corrected Mr 
and Mrs Hs views about the PPF and BSPS2, ensuring that any decision being made about 
transferring was based on a sound understanding of their options and the features, risks and 
benefits of these. I cant see that this happened here or that PWM made any concerted 
attempt to allay Mr and Mrs Hs misgivings. The extent to which Mrs Hs concerns were 
discussed and managed is captured in PWMs suitability report where it said:
You have aired your concerns over the stability of the [BSPS] () There have been lots of 
news articles about the company and how the pension fund is being administered which 
have been worrying for you. You have a deep mistrust of the scheme and worry about the 
security of your funds whilst remaining in the scheme. You do not trust the PPF and its ability 
to take on full scheme liabilities should the scheme fall into the protection fund () Security 
of your pension fund is a main priority.
PWM did set out some of the features of the BSPS in the suitability report but there were 
very limited references to BSPS2 or the PPF. The TVAS, produced by a third party, did set 
out the particular features of the PPF, but this was fact based as opposed to PWM offering 
reassurances in terms of the guaranteed benefits offered or Mrs Hs specific concerns being 
addressed. Had such reassurances instead been given about the protections which would 
still be available, even in the worst case scenario of the scheme benefits needing to enter 
the PPF, I think Mrs H would have viewed things differently.
Although the full details of BSPS2 may not have been known at the time of the advice, Im 
conscious that the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which resulted in the agreement 
being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the necessity of the BSPS pension 
funds entering the PPF, and by the time of the advice BSPS2 seemed, more likely than not, 
to be a viable alternative. So, even if it appeared Mrs Hs existing DB scheme was heading 
to the PPF she had the option of joining the BSPS2, which was still a final salary scheme, 
albeit with reduced benefit escalations. And even if the BSPS2 wasnt established and Mrs 
Hs only option was to move with the scheme to the PPF, I think PWM ought to have advised 
her that it wasnt as concerning as she thought. Mrs H was still unlikely to exceed the 
benefits available to her through the PPF at age 57 if she transferred out.Overall, I dont think PWM did much to alleviate that Mr and Mrs Hs concerns around the 
scheme. If their fears had been appropriately managed, I dont believe they wouldve been 
sufficient justification for Mrs H to transfer at time.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mrs H was suitable. She was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income and by transferring out of the BSPS, she was
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. In my view, there were no other particular
reasons or circumstances which justified a transfer, particularly when he had, at least, 
around 16 years before shed consider retiring.
In arriving at that view, Ive taken into account that, at the time the advice was given, there
was uncertainty around the BSPS which, coupled with the views of former colleagues and 
media speculation, genuinely worried Mrs H and meant that she was likely keen to transfer. 
However, it remained PWMs responsibility to objectively weigh up this uncertainty and the 
available options for Mrs H. After all, she was relying on it to provide expert advice and 
advise her on what to do. In the circumstances Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that 
Mrs H wouldve listened to suitable advice and followed the recommendation I think PWM 
should have made, which was not to transfer.
I dont doubt that features like early retirement and flexibility with retirement and death 
benefits would have been attractive to Mrs H. But as her adviser, PWMs role was to 
question and drill down into the drivers behind Mrs Hs objectives. Without doing this and 
setting out Mrs Hs various options in a clear and balanced way  in monetary form, where 
possible  I dont think PWM, let alone Mrs H, was able to establish whether there were 
reasonable justifications for giving up guaranteed benefits and taking a gamble with her main 
retirement provision. For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think there were. 
The option of early retirement was achievable within the BSPS2 and would have remained 
so in the PPF. In terms of death benefits, Mrs H had existing life cover and potentially also 
had death in service cover, but the latter was never explored by PWM. Security and stability 
were referred to as priorities for Mrs H, but achieving this with her pension fund and thereby 
protecting her husband and children in the event of her death was available without needing 
to transfer. Arguably, by transferring the protection provided in terms of death benefits was 
actually lost.
I accept that Mrs H was given risk warnings and was more likely than not capable of 
understanding them. But its important to note that disclosure isnt the same as suitability. If 
the recommendation to transfer was fundamentally unsuitable then the provision of risk 
warnings doesnt transform it into a suitable one.
Taking account of Mrs Hs circumstances, risk profile, capacity for loss, objectives and the 
guarantees provided by the BSPS2 and even the PPF, if required, Ive carefully considered 
what Mrs H likely would have done, and on balance I think she would have opted to move to 
BSPS2. I say this because retiring at age 57 was an option Mrs H liked the idea of having as 
opposed to a concrete and fully thought out plan she did have. So, I don't think that it 
would've been in her interest to accept the reduction in benefits she would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement. Also, Mrs H was married with dependent children, so the BSPS2 benefits 
relating to these things would have been important to her. There were also the guarantees of 
annual pension indexation to consider which were more advantageous under BSPS2. So, I 
think PWM shouldve advised Mrs H to opt into the BSPS2.
Overall, I think PWM should compensate Mrs H for the unsuitable advice, using theregulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And given what Ive said 
above, its the benefits available to him through BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for 
comparison purposes. For clarity, Mrs H hasnt yet retired and, as I understand it, has no 
intention to do so before her normal retirement.
Putting things right
I intend to say that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs H, as 
far as possible, into the position she would now be in but for PWMs unsuitable advice. I 
consider Mrs H would have most likely remained in her BSPS and subsequently moved into 
the BSPS2, rather than the SIPP, if suitable advice had been given. So, PWM should use 
the benefits offered by BSPS2 at age 65 for comparison purposes, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
PWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Hs acceptance of the decision.
PWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs H within 90 days of the date PWM receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PWM to pay Mrs H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
I invited PWM and Mrs H to respond to my provisional decision. Mrs H accepted my findings. 
PWM disagreed and, in summary, said:Id applied the regulators guidance on pension transfers in a way that was different 
to what was intended and understood at the time of its advice.
Mrs H and her husband appeared to have exaggerated their sons condition to 
strengthen the case for transferring and were now changing their position to benefit 
from a redress payment.
Id implied that it hadnt discussed the PPF or the BSPS2 with Mrs H in any detail at 
the time of the advice, which wasnt true.
My comments made about the critical yield required in this case were incorrect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh and having done so, my decision 
remains the same as before (and as set out above). That means Im upholding Mrs Hs 
complaint for the reasons Ive previously given. However, Ill respond to the comments PWM 
made following my provisional decision. 
PWM disgrees with my provisional decision for several reasons. For ease, Ill deal with each 
of these reasons in turn under the relevant headings below.
Guidance at the time of PWMs advice
PWM says that, at the time of its advice, the guidance was that a transfer should be in a 
clients best interests, taking into account their needs and objectives. It suggests that my 
provisional decision reflects a difference position, where transferring is only suitable if it 
results in better retirement benefits. PWM says this fails to acknowledge a clients 
circumstances and needs. 
In my provisional decision I set out the regulators position at the time of PWMs advice. 
Specifically, I said:
() the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set out the principles for 
assessing suitability. The relevant rules are 9.2.1 and 9.2.2 as set out in the FCAs 
Handbook and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS). These required PWM to gather sufficient 
information from Mrs H to ensure its recommendation met her objectives; that Mrs H could 
financially withstand the risks associated with these objectives and that Mrs H had the 
necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
()
DB schemes like Mrs Hs BSPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving 
these up and subjecting future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable 
investment returns should only be done where it can be shown its clearly in the best 
interests of the consumer. Under 19.1.6 the COBS rules at the time of the advice said:
When advising a retail client who is () a member of a defined benefits occupational 
pension scheme (), a firm should start by assuming that a transfer () will not be suitable. 
A firm should only consider a transfer () to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, () is in the retail clients best interests.
I explained that, given the regulators position, my starting point was that a transfer wouldnt 
usually be suitable unless there were compelling reasons why, instead of maintaining 
safeguarded retirement benefits, transferring was in a consumers best interests. Although I 
said that, generally, a transfer would only likely to be in a consumers best interests if there was a reasonable prospect that the new arrangement would provide better retirement 
benefits, I added that the transfer would also need to be suitable, taking into account an 
individuals particular circumstances.
In terms of suitability and retirement benefits, the regulator, under COBS 19.1.7A and 
19.1.7B, said:
When giving a personal recommendation about a pension transfer or pension conversion, a 
firm should clearly inform the retail client about the loss of the safeguarded benefits and the 
consequent transfer of risk from the defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with 
safeguarded benefits to the retail client, including:
(1) the extent to which benefits may fall short of replicating those in the defined benefits 
pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefit ()
a firm should not regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from 
the defined benefits pension scheme () as sufficient in itself.
With this in mind, I dont think its unreasonable to say that, usually  not always  thered be   
little point giving up the guarantees of a DB scheme simply in order to stand still and 
maintain the same level of benefits being surrendered. Especially, given the innate risk that 
a transfer might underperform due to the dependence on investment performance. 
I think this was reflected by the regulator when it said that a level of return which might 
merely reproduce the same DB benefits being given up shouldnt be viewed as enough, by 
itself, to justify advising a customer to transfer. So, thinking about transferring and the 
likelihood of accumulating benefits of greater value to make the transfer worthwhile is, in my 
view, a valid consideration when thinking about the suitability of PWMs advice. And one 
which I addressed in the section of my provisional decision under the heading, financial 
viability. Its worth noting that I also said that a transfer wouldnt automatically be unsuitable 
even if the critical yields were high, indicating that the likelihood of a transfer improving on 
existing retirement benefits might be lower. 
So, overall, I dont agree that my provisional decision reflects an approach to assessing the 
suitability of DB transfer advice which is out of step with the regulators rules and guidance at 
the time of PWMs advice. And I disagree with PWMs suggestion that my findings regarding 
the suitability of its advice are centred on Mrs H securing better retirement benefits.
In reaching a decision about the suitability of PWMs advice, Ive taken into account a 
number of factors, such as  but not limited to  the regulators position on DB transfers, the 
status of the BSPS at the time of PWMs advice and as Ive already said, the financial 
viability of the transfer. But taking into account other relevant factors, doesnt mean that     
Mrs Hs circumstances, needs and objectives havent been key considerations when Ive 
looked at the suitability of the advice he received. I think my provisional decision shows the 
opposite to be true.
Repeated references to Mrs Hs circumstances were made throughout my provisional 
decision and, most notably, under the section headed, Mrs Hs position at the time of 
PWMs advice, where I set out Mrs Hs circumstances as I understood them. Specifically, I 
said:
At the time of the advice, Mrs H was 41 years old and had accrued moderate qualifying 
service in the BSPS shed held with her former employer. Other than her small LGPS 
pension and state pension entitlement, Mrs Hs BSPS benefits were the backbone of her 
retirement provision. When considered in comparison to the significant level of benefits her husband has secured under the BSPS, it was obvious that Mr Hs BSPS benefits 
represented the largest proportion of the couples total future retirement income. So, Mrs H 
had a clear dependence on Mr Hs pension benefits as well as her own.
In terms of other assets Mr and Mrs H could potentially rely on if transferring didnt work out, 
they held £86,000 in investment bonds; £28,000 in Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs); 
£4,000 in cash savings and owned their own home. PWM recorded that Mr and Mrs H 
expected inheritances which it felt could offset the investment risk associated with 
transferring. However, it failed to collect any meaningful information about the anticipated 
inheritances, such as what they might comprise of or their expected value. So, Id question 
the basis on which it was able to conclude they could be relied on to mitigate risk.
Notwithstanding what Ive said about the inheritances, I accept that Mrs Hs financial position 
was, by all general appearances, fairly favourable. PWM recorded that Mr and Mrs H were 
satisfied theyd have enough to live off in retirement and didnt think there was any risk of 
their retirement funds being depleted, saying they were always careful with their money. 
Despite these views, the fact remains that Mrs H was dependent on PWMs expertise. She 
wasnt a pensions expert, so she wasnt in a position to effectively assess whether her 
financial circumstances meant it was appropriate to take additional risks with her BSPS 
benefits. It wasnt enough for PWM to rely on Mrs Hs satisfaction with her financial position 
or the inheritances she anticipated. It needed to establish her financial position at the outset, 
including her specific retirement needs, and make a reasonable assessment of the situation. 
Had PWM done so, I think it wouldve been clear that, for several reasons, Mrs H 
transferring out of the BSPS wasnt essential or worthwhile.
With this in mind, I wasnt satisfied that PWM demonstrated that it had met the regulators 
requirement for it to obtain necessary information regarding Mrs Hs financial situation and 
objectives. The relevant rule, under COBS 9.2.2, said that in order to do this, PWM was 
required to gather sufficient information from Mrs H in order to understand essential facts 
about her; have a reasonable basis for believing that its recommendation met Mrs Hs 
objectives; that Mrs H could financially withstand the risks associated with these objectives 
and that Mrs H had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks 
involved in the transaction. The available evidence in this case didnt, in my view, show that 
PWM met this obligation when it advised Mrs H to transfer out of the BSPS.
As Ive said, PWM suggests that, in addition to ignoring Mrs Hs circumstances, my 
consideration of its advice failed to take into account Mrs Hs needs and objectives. This isnt 
correct. I thought carefully about Mrs Hs circumstances when looking at PWMs justifications 
for its advice, which included what it recorded his needs and objectives to be. But having 
done so, I wasnt satisfied that transferring for reasons like flexibility or death benefits was 
necessary or shown by PWM to be in Mrs Hs best interests. And its this which led me to 
conclude that its advice was unsuitable. 
Mrs Hs needs and objectives 
In terms of Mrs Hs income needs in retirement, I noted that PWM had made no attempt to 
establish what these were likely to be. Despite there being almost 16 years before Mrs H 
intended to retire, I didnt think PWM could afford not to make establishing what her income 
needs in retirement might be a priority. After all, the main purpose of a pension is to meet 
this need. All other considerations are secondary that. So, its still not clear to me on what 
basis PWM was able to conclude that Mrs Hs retirement needs as well as her other 
objectives could be fully met by transferring. This wasnt, using contemporaneous evidence, 
shown by PWM to be true. Although PWM recorded that retiring early, at age 57, and drawing income flexibly was one 
of Mrs Hs objectives, there was nothing to indicate this was an essential requirement or that 
Mrs H had concrete plans in this respect, which made transferring at that time necessary or 
worthwhile. I also noted how PWM contradicted itself, saying that transferring out of the 
BSPS for early retirement wasnt an advisable course of action, while at the same time 
recommending that Mrs H take the very action it was warning her against  i.e. transferring 
to retire early. This contradiction wasnt addressed by PWM.
And in terms of drawing income flexibly, information about what this meant and looked like in 
practice for Mrs H was noticeably absent. So, like early retirement, I wasnt persuaded that it 
was a convincing reason for transferring. 
PWM said higher and more flexible death benefits were something Mrs H needed which 
would only be available if she transferred to a SIPP. And so, transferring for this reason was 
necessary. Responding to this in my provisional decision, I said:
() Its understandable that Mrs H wanted to ensure her husband and children benefited 
from her pension when she died. However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think PWM has 
provided sufficient evidence, demonstrating that transferring for this reason was worthwhile; 
that PWM met its obligation to provide Mrs H with enough information about the death 
benefits available under the BSPS and the PPF or that it had regard for the effect of 
replacing them with the benefits and options under a new arrangement.()
Im not satisfied that PWM put Mrs H in a position where she had a complete picture of what 
her various death benefit options were or that he fully understood them, such that she could 
make an informed decision about transferring for this reason ()
In addition to setting out the death benefits available, PWM needed to establish what        
Mrs Hs specific needs in this regard were () discussed what, in real terms, Mrs Hs 
position on death benefits was and specifically how she wanted to provide for her husband 
and children in this respect  for example, why she thought Mr H would benefit from extra 
lump sum death benefits as opposed to a guaranteed ongoing spouse pension, and how 
much of a safety net her husband and children might require if she passed away ().
Overall, I wasnt satisfied that the alternative death benefits available under a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease in retirement benefits for Mrs H, so I didnt, and still dont, think that 
PWMs advice to Mrs H to transfer for this reason was suitable. 
Mrs Hs sons condition and the requirement to purchase property
Notwithstanding other reasons given for its advice, PWM has, in response to my provisional 
decision, said that a driving factor behind its recommendation that Mrs H transfer was the 
health of one of her sons and how this meant that she and her husband would have to 
purchase a property for him in the future.
PWM expressed disappointment that Mr and Mrs H were now suggesting that their son, with 
cerebral palsy, was in mainstream education and would be able to get a job. It said that Mr 
and Mrs H had been adamant at the time of its advice that their son would never be fully 
independent due to his condition, so purchasing a property for him was required. PWM says 
this was discussed and documented in meeting notes and its suitability report.
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that making provision for both of Mrs Hs sons 
was important. However, in the circumstances of this case, I didnt think it was appropriate to 
give this priority over Mrs Hs own retirement needs. I said:Although one of Mrs Hs sons had a mild disability, he was in mainstream school and not 
expected to be unable to work in the future or be a long-term dependent of Mr and Mrs H. 
Nothing was recorded about the needs of their second son.
Bearing this in mind, along with PWMs claim that Mr and Mrs Hs primary need was to 
access £200,000 at age 57 to pay for houses for their sons, I didnt think there was enough 
to evidence that this truly was a principal requirement. I said: 
 () providing each son with £100,000 doesnt seem to be something which PWM 
established was really necessary, certainly not to the extent that transferring and sacrificing 
Mrs Hs valuable BSPS benefits to achieve this was the best course of action for Mrs H to 
take. If anything, I think the lump sum amount was aspirational and it was for PWM, through 
discussion with Mrs H, to put this figure into perspective, establish what was feasible, 
manage expectations and, where applicable, help modify this objective to reflect the reality 
of her and her husbands financial circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about what PWM has said was documented in its meeting notes and 
suitability report at the time of its advice. It hasnt referred to anything specific in its advice 
file, but having reviewed all of the available evidence in this case afresh, I havent seen 
anything which persuades me to alter my original finding that advising Mrs H to transfer to 
provide lump sums to her sons at age 57 to purchase property wasnt demonstrably suitable. 
Under General Financial Objectives on PWMs fact find, Mr and Mrs Hs goal was recorded 
as being in a comfortable position at retirement.  Although providing substantial funds to their 
children to help them get on the property ladder was mentioned, there was no reference to 
the disability one of their sons had.
In PWMs suitability report, under the heading, Current Situation, the only comment 
regarding Mrs Hs sons is:
You have two sons who are financial dependents at present. In the future you would like to 
help both sons [sic] get on the property ladder.
Under the heading, Your Objectives and Priorities, the suitability report said:
You want to help your sons to purchase a property in the future, therefore you want to be 
able to take the maximum Tax-Free Cash ().
And under the heading Reasons for my recommendation, PWM said:
At age 57 you would like to use the fund to provide deposits for houses for your sons 
(approx. £200,000).
So again, there was no mention of Mrs Hs sons condition and why this meant that 
purchasing a property for him in the future was necessary. There was also nothing to 
indicate that this was the driving factor PWM says it was for its recommendation that Mrs H 
transfer. If this was the case, I would expect it to be reflected in PWMs paperwork from the 
time, especially in its suitability report. But it isnt. And although PWMs meeting notes 
contain limited references to Mrs Hs wish to provide her sons with lump sums to purchase 
houses, theres nothing to suggest that Mrs H was adamant that her disabled sons condition 
was such that purchasing a property for him in the future would be required in the way PWM 
says Mrs H said it was.
Its not entirely clear on what basis PWM, in response to my provisional decision, says that 
Mr and Mrs H, in contrast to what theyd said previously, were now suggesting that their son was in mainstream education and could potentially get a job. This information came from 
what PWM said in its own final response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and meeting notes at 
the time of its advice. Notably, PWMs meeting notes said:
() 12 YO has slight celebral [sic] palsy, although he is in mainstream education and would 
potentially be able to get a job (so not dependant) ().
So, I disagree with PWMs suggestion that Mr and Mrs H exaggerated their sons condition 
in order to strengthen the case for a transfer. This simply isnt borne out in the available 
evidence for this case.
PWMs discussions with Mrs H about the PPF and the BSPS2
PWM feels that my provisional decision suggested it didnt discuss the PPF and the BSPS2 
with Mrs H in any detail, despite its meeting notes and suitability report confirming that it did. 
To be clear, regarding information PWM provided Mrs H with regarding the PPF and the 
BSPS2, I didnt think PWM had sufficiently considered the benefits potentially available to 
Mrs H under the PPF or the BSPS2 or shared this information with Mrs H in a meaningful 
way, before discounting them in favour of transferring to a SIPP to meet Mrs Hs 
documented objectives. For example, regarding flexibility, I said:
PWMs suitability report for Mrs H didnt set out the specific lump sums which might be 
available to her at age 57 and age 65 under BSPS2 or the PPF. Nor did it provide any 
figures for what a SIPP might provide as an alternative. Given that Mrs H was exploring the 
idea of funding deposits for her sons using the proceeds of her BSPS benefits and relying 
PWMs advice about this, I think this was essential information for her to have in order to 
make an informed decision about what to do ()
Overall, I think PWM deprived Mr and Mrs H of the opportunity to seriously consider other 
ways of providing the deposits without subjecting Mrs Hs main retirement provision to 
avoidable risk. For example, contemplating whether providing lower deposits (more 
commensurate with Mr and Mrs Hs financial position) which could comfortably be 
accommodated through TFC available to Mr and Mrs H under BSPS2 or the PPF at different 
retirement intervals, or, using existing savings or anticipated inheritances to fund the 
deposits  all while keeping Mrs Hs own retirement needs a priority.
And, in terms of death benefits, I said:
Its understandable that Mrs H wanted to ensure her husband and children benefited from 
her pension when she died. However, based on what Ive seen, I dont think PWM has 
provided sufficient evidence, demonstrating that transferring for this reason was worthwhile; 
that PWM met its obligation to provide Mrs H with enough information about the death 
benefits available under the BSPS and the PPF or that it had regard for the effect of 
replacing them with the benefits and options under a new arrangement.
PWMs suitability report briefly set out what Mrs Hs death benefit entitlement under the 
BSPS was  a spouses pension equal to 50% of the pension she was receiving and a lump 
sum of £6,068.53. It outlined, in general terms, death benefits available through a SIPP and 
made minimal references those under the PPF. 
The TVAS did set out in monetary terms what spouse and childrens death benefits under 
the BSPS could be depending on when, before taking benefits, Mrs H died. But there was 
nothing about what death benefits might look like under the PPF or a SIPP, even in general 
terms. Because of this, Im not satisfied that PWM put Mrs H in a position where she had a complete picture of what her various death benefit options were or that she fully understood 
them, such that she could make an informed decision about transferring for this reason.
And, as to Mrs Hs concerns about the BSPS and the PPF, I said:
PWM did set out some of the features of the BSPS in the suitability report but there were 
very limited references to BSPS2 or the PPF. The TVAS, produced by a third party, did set 
out the particular features of the PPF, but this was fact based as opposed to PWM offering 
reassurances in terms of the guaranteed benefits offered or Mrs Hs specific concerns being 
addressed. Had such reassurances instead been given about the protections which would 
still be available, even in the worst case scenario of the scheme benefits needing to enter 
the PPF, I think Mrs H would have viewed things differently.
Although the full details of BSPS2 may not have been known at the time of the advice, Im 
conscious that the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which resulted in the agreement 
being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the necessity of the BSPS pension 
funds entering the PPF, and by the time of the advice BSPS2 seemed, more likely than not, 
to be a viable alternative. So, even if it appeared Mrs Hs existing DB scheme was heading 
to the PPF she had the option of joining the BSPS2, which was still a final salary scheme, 
albeit with reduced benefit escalations. And even if the BSPS2 wasnt established and Mrs 
Hs only option was to move with the scheme to the PPF, I think PWM ought to have advised 
her that it wasnt as concerning as she thought. Mrs H was still unlikely to exceed the 
benefits available to her through the PPF at age 57 if she transferred out.
Overall, I dont think PWM did much to alleviate that Mr and Mrs Hs concerns around the 
scheme. If their fears had been appropriately managed, I dont believe they wouldve been 
sufficient justification for Mrs H to transfer at time.
So, although I said I didnt think PWM provided Mrs H with sufficient information about the 
PPF and the BSPS2, that doesnt mean I was suggesting that next to nothing about these 
was covered by it with Mrs H. My point is that PWM failed to share enough relevant and 
specific information about the PPF and the BSPS2 which wouldve enabled Mrs H to make 
an informed decision about whether to transfer. And that remains my position.
Critical Yield
Finally, PWM has said the critical yield section of my provisional decision is incorrect. 
Specifically, it says my statement that the critical yield required in this case would need to be 
higher, to take into account fees, is incorrect. PWM says the fees were included within the 
critical yield percentages supplied, therefore the critical yield figure would in fact be lower 
and within the discount rate I quoted.
In response to this, I think its first worth noting what PWM said about the critical yield figure 
in its suitability report. Specifically, it said:
The critical yield figure needed to match your existing benefits is 3.8% () in our opinion, 
we do believe this would be achievable. The net return would need to be higher to take into 
account plan charges, adviser fees, fund costs etc. 
So, its PWM which first said that fees werent included in the critical yield figure and 
therefore the critical yield required would need to be higher. I agreed with this point. 
However, having reviewed the TVAS report which PWMs critical yield figure came from, I 
can see that the appendix does in fact confirm that plan charges, adviser fees and fund 
costs were taken into account. So, I accept that, notwithstanding the inaccurate information 
provided in PWMs suitability report, I made an oversight in this respect.PWM says that as the plan charges, adviser fees and fund costs were taken into account, in 
reality, the net growth required to match the benefits being given up by transferring out of the 
DB scheme would be lower than 3.8%. I agree with this in principle, but I dont think this 
figure would be a fair representation of the level of risk Mrs H was taking by transferring. 
Failing to include applicable fees and charges in the critical yield figure would in my view 
only serve to underplay the benefits of the DB scheme and therefore misrepresent the 
financial viability of the transfer. And its evident that additional growth would be required to 
offset the impact of the fees.
But as I said in my provisional decision, financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice. And even if critical yield figures are low, that doesnt automatically 
make a transfer suitable.
For the reasons given, and as I havent been provided with anything which leads me to 
conclude otherwise, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to a conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mrs H, nor was it in 
her best interests. So, overall, I think PWM should compensate Mrs H for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as 
per the Summary section of my provisional decision, it is the benefits available to her 
through BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for comparison purposes.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mrs H whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. And she 
has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs H. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs H, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for PWMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs H 
would have most likely remained in her BSPS and subsequently moved into the BSPS2, 
rather than the SIPP, if suitable advice had been given. So, PWM should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 at age 65 for comparison purposes, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
PWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Hs acceptance of the decision.
PWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs H within 90 days of the date PWM receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PWM to pay Mrs H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect PWM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require PrisWM Limited to pay 
Mrs H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
PrisWM Limited to pay Mrs H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require PrisWM 
Limited to pay Mrs H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
PrisWM Limited pays Mrs H the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs H.
If Mrs H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on PrisWM Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
If Mrs H accepts this final decision on the above basis, the money award becomes binding 
on PrisWM Limited. My recommendation would not be binding on PrisWM Limited. Further, 
its unlikely that Mrs H could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs 
H may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman