DRN-3115177
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs W are unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt process their
request to make a Clearing House Payments System (CHAPS) payment.
What happened
On 7 December 2020, Mr and Mrs W instructed NatWest to make a CHAPS payment of
around £90,000 to their solicitors account for the purpose of a property purchase. They were
due to exchange contracts on 11 December 2020.
When Mr and Mrs W checked their account on 9 December 2020, they realised the funds
hadnt left their account. Mr W visited the branch and was promised a call-back. But when
this didnt happen, Mr and Mrs W spent several hours on the phone trying to resolve the
issue.
On 10 December 2020, NatWest told Mr and Mrs W their CHAPS payment had been
blocked for additional checks. And since the payment wasnt processed within 72 hours, it
was cancelled. They were asked to pop into a branch to make the payment again. But the
second CHAPS payment also got stopped for further checks. As it got later in the day, the
branch arranged for an interbank transfer which was completed successfully.
NatWest explained the first CHAPS payment was flagged for a security check in line with the
terms and conditions of the account. But accepted the payment wasnt processed once it
was confirmed as genuine and couldnt explain why. They initially offered £100
compensation and later increased it to £150. NatWest also paid £27 towards the cost of
phone calls and agreed to reimburse any additional call costs, if evidence was provided.
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to us. Our investigator looked at the complaint and
said that NatWest didnt need to complete additional checks as adequate checks were 
completed in the branch. And even if the checks were reasonable, NatWest shouldve
processed the payment once the checks were complete.
The investigator felt that Mr and Mrs W were caused significant inconvenience and stress.
He asked NatWest to pay an additional £150 compensation. He said £300 compensation
and £27 towards call costs was a fair resolution to the complaint.
NatWest agreed but Mr and Mrs W didnt. Since an agreement couldnt be reached, the
complaint was passed to me for a decision. In summary, Mr and Mrs W felt the
compensation amount was low and explained they wanted an answer as to why this
happened. They explained how upsetting, difficult and frustrating it was for them.
What I had provisionally decided 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 September 2021, and I made the following findings:
CHAPS is a system that allows large transfers between bank accounts on the same day. So,
I think Mr and Mrs W had a reasonable expectation that the funds wouldve been in their
solicitors account the same day.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account and this explains that NatWest are
entitled to delay the transfer in order to carry out security checks. I think it was reasonable
for NatWest to do so, despite Mr and Mrs W giving their instructions in person.
I say this because NatWest have a duty to prevent fraud and protect their customers as well
as their business from scams. Since this transaction was for a large amount and was outside
the usual activity for the account, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in completing
additional checks when flagged by their security system.
However, as NatWest have admitted already, they failed to process the payment once it was
authorised as genuine. And they havent been able to explain exactly what went wrong and
have said its likely to be human error.
I appreciate it mustve been frustrating for Mr and Mrs W since the second CHAPS payment
was also blocked for a security check. NatWest have explained their fraud prevention
system automatically flags unusual transactions.
But given the concerns Mr and Mrs W had already raised, I wouldve expected NatWest to
process the transaction as quickly as possible. It appears this didnt happen until the branch
eventually intervened and was able to complete an interbank transfer.
Mr and Mrs W want NatWest to complete a full investigation, including speaking to the
branch manager. I know its particularly important to them, but NatWest have already
completed an investigation which was inconclusive.
While I accept understanding the reasons would be helpful, I think a human error is the most
plausible explanation here. In any case, I dont think this makes a material difference to the
outcome of the complaint. My role here is to consider the impact of the error caused by
NatWest on Mr and Mrs W rather than why it happened in the first place.
Mr and Mrs W explained they spent numerous hours on the phone and experienced long
wait times. They were passed to different advisers, placed on hold, some calls were
disconnected, and NatWest failed to keep call-back promises.
I can understand the frustration and annoyance Mr and Mrs W were caused not least due to
the issues Ive described above, but also because they werent given any clear answers as
to why the payment still hadnt left their account and how to resolve the issue.
Mr and Mrs W also had to make additional visits to the branch causing them further
inconvenience. I understand they spent a long time in the branch to ensure the payment
reached their solicitor.
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs W when they say it was very stressful for them. I understand Mrs W
was unwell at the time and their exchange of contracts was delayed by a few days. So, this
error had a much greater impact on them.
Mr and Mrs W attempted to mitigate any possible delays by making the payment a few days
before the solicitor needed it. I think anyone planning ahead this way is likely to be more
disappointed when things go wrong.
NatWest have admitted their mistake, apologised, passed feedback to the agents involved,
paid £27 towards call costs and agreed to cover additional call costs if Mr and Mrs W provide
evidence. These are reasonable steps Id expect them to take in this situation.Ive carefully thought about the impact on Mr and Mrs W. I dont think £300 compensation
NatWest have agreed to pay goes far enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience
caused to Mr and Mrs W. Buying a house is an already stressful experience and this was
amplified due to NatWests mistake.
I know Mr and Mrs W have experienced issues with CHAPS payment in the past and theyve
received a higher amount of compensation. For clarity, in deciding this complaint, I can only
consider the error NatWest made in handling this particular transaction.
Also, an award of compensation is based on the impact of this mistake on Mr and Mrs W,
rather than on any previous compensation payments made by NatWest. Mr and Mrs W have
explained the compensation should be higher as it doesnt even cover their wages for the
time spent on phone calls and trips to the branch.
Ive taken into account the time Mr and Mrs W have wasted in dealing with this issue and
factored it into the inconvenience theyve been caused. But we dont compensate consumers
for their time in units or based on their hourly wage.
Although the issue was resolved in a couple of days, NatWests mistake had a serious
impact on Mr and Mrs W. They were caused considerable distress, upset and worry. Theyve
also been significantly inconvenienced which has required a lot of effort on their part to sort
out.
All things considered, I think NatWest should pay £500 compensation in total in recognition
of the distress and inconvenience caused. I understand NatWest have already paid £150
compensation. So they should pay an additional £350 compensation to fairly resolve this
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision and provide further evidence or 
arguments they want me to consider.
In summary, Mr and Mrs W felt the compensation amount of £500 is too low. They said 
theyd only expect human error to happen once, but NatWest blocked their request to make 
the payment twice even though it was verified in branch. They dont think that NatWest 
followed their process in handling CHAPS payments.
Mr and Mrs W also said that despite several calls, NatWest couldnt explain what had 
happened nor resolve the issue. They also reiterated that NatWest didnt contact them to 
verify the payments were genuine. They feel there was a gross failing on NatWests part 
rather than human error.
NatWest didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Ws further comments, but I havent changed my 
mind. Ill explain why.I dont disagree with Mr and Mrs W that NatWest didnt follow their own process in carrying 
out the first CHAPS payment instruction. This isnt in dispute as NatWest have accepted this 
too. Theyve admitted the payment shouldve been processed once it was authorised as 
genuine. 
I appreciate the branch had verified Mr and Mrs W again prior to the second CHAPS 
payment. But I dont think NatWest made an error in blocking the second payment. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, NatWest are allowed, under the terms and conditions 
of the account, to stop a payment until further checks are carried out.  
It isnt surprising to me that the automatic fraud prevention system blocked the second 
CHAPS payment for additional checks. I say this because as well as the payment being for a 
large amount and outside the usual activity for the account, the same transaction had been 
attempted just days prior. So, I think it was likely to be flagged.
I think the issue here is that NatWest didnt act quickly enough to remove the blocks. I 
wouldve expected them to take the necessary steps to verify the payment without delay. It 
was especially important, given that Mr and Mrs W had made NatWest aware of the time 
sensitivity involved and also due to the problems they had already experienced with the first 
CHAPS payment.  
Although NatWest didnt process either CHAPS payment, the matter was resolved by the 
branch completing an interbank transfer on 10 December 2020. Ive taken this into account 
as well as the impact of these issues on Mr and Mrs W to decide a fair amount of 
compensation.
In any event though, the reasons for NatWests failure to process the CHAPS payments are 
immaterial to the outcome of this complaint. I say this because we dont have the power to 
punish businesses. While its frustrating and inconvenient when then things go wrong, 
mistakes do happen. 
Our awards of compensation are based on the impact of the mistake, rather than the 
mistake itself or why it happened. The impact on Mr and Mrs W was the same regardless of 
whether the problems were due to a failure to follow process or human error. 
Overall, I have come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. Im 
satisfied that £500 in total is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs W for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc 
should pay Mr and Mrs W £500 compensation in total, if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman