DRN-3459168
The complaint
Ms B says that she wasnt aware that the early repayment charge (ERC) on a mortgage 
product she took out in 2020 was 5% of the amount repaid, rather than the 3% she had with 
her previous mortgage product.
The mortgage was arranged through Jigsaw (a mortgage broker) which is an appointed 
representative of The On-Line Partnership Limited. For ease, throughout this decision Ill 
simply refer to the broker as The On-Line Partnership, and that should be taken to mean 
Jigsaw where appropriate.
What happened
In 2018 Ms B took out a mortgage through The On-Line Partnership. Ms B took a two-year 
fixed rate product which had an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid for that two-year period.
In late 2020 the rate was coming to an end so Ms B approached The On-Line Partnership, 
asking it to arrange a new rate for her. Following correspondence between the parties, Ms B 
accepted a new rate with her existing lender that was fixed for five years. This time the ERC 
was 5% for the five-year period.
In mid-2021 Ms Bs personal circumstances changed, and she decided to sell the property to 
move abroad. When a redemption statement was issued it showed an ERC of 5% which led 
to Ms B raising a complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the information about the ERC was in 
both the mortgage recommendation letter and the mortgage offer. Ms B didnt accept our 
investigators findings and so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms B took out her mortgage in 2018, the ERC for the borrowing was set out in the 
mortgage offer. If Ms B hadnt taken a new fixed rate, from 3 October 2020 her existing fixed 
rate would have ended, and her mortgage would have been charged at the lenders Follow-
on Rate (which was a variable rate 3.25% above the Bank of England base rate) as set out 
in the 2018 mortgage offer. 
The ERC for the 2018 product was explained in the mortgage offer. That showed an ERC of 
3% of the amount repaid would be due if the mortgage was repaid before 3 October 2020. 
After that date there would be no ERC. It said the maximum ERC that might be paid was 
around £9,000.
In June 2020 Ms B actively requested the five-year fixed rate saying: 
Just got the rate renewal letter from [lender] and checked the rates online. Do you 
charge a fee for renewing the rate and is there something we can do about the £999 
product fee?
If the answer to the above is no for both, please go ahead and renew with a 5Y Fixed @ 
1.64% with the product fee payable upfront.
The broker replied with details of a two-year fixed rate as an alternative, but Ms B preferred 
the idea of the five-year fixed rate product.
The lender issued a mortgage offer which set out the details of the new contract Ms B was 
entering into. This said All parts of this mortgage offer, together with the mortgage 
conditions, will form the terms of your mortgage. Its very important that you read all of the 
information provided.
The mortgage offer stated the ERC for the new product was 5% of the amount repaid on or 
before 2 September 2025 and gave some monetary examples of that. It said the maximum 
early repayment charge that might be paid was around £14,500.
Ms B says she didnt receive the recommendation letter from the adviser which was dated 
27 June 2020. Ms B has said:
Please can Jigsaw provide a signed receipt of their recommendation letter or an email 
acknowledgment of its receipt from myself, or otherwise treat my case as if I did not 
receive any recommendation letter and have an Ombudsman opine on my case.
Ive looked at that letter and it was correctly addressed. There was no regulatory 
requirement for the letter to be sent by registered post or for it to require a signed receipt or 
other acknowledgement of receipt. I cant simply ignore that letter because Ms B wants me 
to. The vast majority of correctly addressed post is delivered. I also would have expected Ms 
B to have queried why she hadnt received anything about the advisers recommendation at 
the time, as she was clear in her call with our investigator that she was surprised she didnt 
receive anything as, within the part of financial services she worked in, such letters had to be 
sent.
That letter said the ERCs had been discussed, that Ms B didnt intend to repay the mortgage 
within the ERC period, and set out the maximum ERC that could be paid.
In any event, even if I set aside that letter and look at this complaint on the basis Ms B didnt 
receive it, I still cant uphold the complaint as the ERC was set out in the mortgage contract 
in a manner consistent with what the regulator required at the time. The mortgage offer 
covering letter said Ms B should read all the information provided, and Ms B signed to 
accept the changes to her mortgage contract.
Ms B has referred to it as a hidden amendment and it being a 32-page contract. Whilst there 
were 32-pages in total the actual mortgage offer part of that was only 6 pages long, with the 
rest being the covering letter, some summary pages and the generic lender terms and 
conditions. The details about the ERC took up around a third of page 3 (of the 6 pages).
Ms B had the opportunity to not sign the contract if it wasnt what she wanted, and I cant 
hold The On-Line Partnership liable for Ms B not reading it all as fully as she needed to. 
Ms B also said the adviser reassured her there were no other changes to her mortgage 
terms, but that was correct information. The only alteration to her mortgage terms was the 
change in the product, and the ERC is part of the product; you change the product, you change the ERC. The ERC is an integral part of the product pricing so any change in product 
would result in a change in the ERC, whether that be the percentage or the end date of the 
ERC period (or both).
As our investigator explained, the ERC isnt part of the underlying mortgage debt, it is part of 
the mortgage product that sits on top of that. In 2018 Ms B took out a mortgage product that 
had a 3% ERC, and then in 2020 she replaced that with a mortgage product that had a 5% 
ERC. 
Ms Bs argument that she didnt realise the ERC would be reviewed throughout the 
mortgage term doesnt make sense when you look at the 2018 mortgage contract that says 
the ERC would only run until 2 October 2020 (ie for the length of the fixed rate period). 
If Ms B hadnt taken out a new fixed rate product in 2020 then her mortgage would have 
moved to the variable rate as set out in the 2018 mortgage offer, and whilst it remained on 
that variable rate there would have been no ERC due as per that mortgage offer. 
By taking a new product Ms B accepted all the terms of that product, including the 5% ERC 
for the length of the fixed rate period.
The lender sent Ms B the mortgage offer, and she signed to accept it. This was an important 
document and there was a reasonable expectation that Ms B would read it. The ERC, the 
way in which it would be applied and the maximum amount that would be charged were set 
out clearly and prominently in the offer (and certainly in line with the regulators 
requirements). 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms B was hoping for. I can see Ms B feels very strongly 
that The On-Line Partnership should have done more, but having considered everything Im 
satisfied there was sufficient information available to Ms B before she accepted the 
mortgage contract to show her what the likely ERC would be.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman