DRN-3197277
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice given by True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TP) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He feels he has lost out as a result.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 11 
December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr P contacted another adviser in 2017 for advice on his pension. As they couldnt provide 
DB transfer advice they introduced him to TP. TP sent Mr P an introductory email on 3 
December 2017 asking him to confirm whether he required advice on his DB options.
Mr P completed a data form and an attitude to risk form. A day later, on 4 December, TP 
asked Mr P for further information about his circumstances and said he probably would need 
to see Mr P on 6 or 7 December as the transfer value was only valid until 11 December. A 
suitability report and pension transfer report was issued on 5 December. On 6 December Mr 
P received TPs recommendation to transfer to a personal pension which he accepted the 
same day.
The following was recorded about Mr Ps situation at the time of the advice:
Mr P was 46, in good health, cohabiting with his partner who was a year younger than him 
and they had two children (who would be dependent for another seven years). He had a 
monthly net income of £2,600 and his partner a net monthly income of £667. Their combined 
net income was £3,267 and their typical expenditure was around £2,000.
Mr P owned two investment properties both worth around £85,000 with interest only 
mortgages of £55,000 each. They both provided rent of £450 per month. The family home 
was worth £110,000 with an outstanding repayment mortgage of £57,000 and a remaining 
term of 16 years which was expected to be repaid by the time Mr P retired.
Mr P had savings of £7,000 and loans of £18,800 which were expected to be repaid in 3.5 
years and 6 years respectively.
Both Mr P and his partner were expecting to receive full state pensions at age 67 (£8,320 
per year). In addition to his BSPS pension with a transfer value of around £133,000, Mr P 
had another DB pension which was expected to provide £5,400 per year at age 65, a 
personal pension valued at £32,400 and his current employers defined contribution (DC) 
pension which was valued at £7,000 and was receiving combined employee and employer 
contributions of £5,040 per year. The value of this was plan was estimated to be £93,000 at 
age 65 (excluding growth and future salary increases). His partner was recorded to have 
minimal pension provisions.
It was recorded Mr Ps partner would need £1,200 per month pre-retirement and £800 post 
retirement per month if Mr P predeceased her. These figures took into account the fact that 
Mr P had life cover in place (£180,000) which would repay all the debts on his death. It was 
recorded that the couple also had a joint required income of £1,200 per month in retirement.
Both Mr P and his partner were expecting to receive inheritance in the future but values were 
unknown.
Mr Ps attitude to risk was recorded as balanced. Mr P had ticked a box on the risk 
questionnaire to say his attitude to risk was balanced. In the date form he had said he was 
cautious. TP said in their email to him that unless he said otherwise they would assume he 
was a balanced investor.
With regard to his capacity for loss the suitability report Mr P confirmed any loss of capital 
would not impact on his standard of living or future objectives. In the data form he answered 
the question if you transferred your pension and the value fell significantly (e.g. another 
2008 crash) would it significantly impact your retirement? with Maybe. Not sure.
The reasons for recommending the transfer were that Mr P didnt require a guaranteed 
income and neither the PPF or BSPS2 options could satisfy Mr Ps requirements which were 
described as:
Having flexible access to income and capital (in retirement) as well as being able to leave 
lump sum death benefits for the future benefit of his partner and/or his children.
Mr P, through his representative, complained in 2020 about the suitability of the transfer
advice. After TP rejected his complaint, Mr P referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator thought the advice TP had given Mr P was unsuitable and asked them to
compensate Mr P for the losses he incurred by transferring his DB pension.
TP disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting assumption when advising on a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is
unsuitable. TP should have only considered a transfer to be suitable if they could clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporaneous evidence, that the transfer was in Mr Ps best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied this is the 
case here. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The documents from the time of advice show that Mr P was looking to retire at age 65.
TP prepared a transfer analysis which showed that the average investment return required
in the new pension to match the BSPS benefits at age 65 (critical yield) was quoted as
5.19% per year if Mr Ps benefits in retirement were taken as a lump sum plus a reduced
pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available in the PPF at age 65 taken in the
same form was 5.24%.
The closest discount rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was published by the
Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. It was 4.4% per year
for 18 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. I've
taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate.
Looking at the critical yields in the transfer analysis report, I think it wasnt impossible Mr P 
could have more or less matched the benefits in the PPF or BSPS2 if he was invested in line 
with a medium risk strategy as suggested. However, there was still a distinct risk he 
wouldnt. And I think the chances he could actually improve on his benefits were a lot less 
likely. Im also not convinced Mr P was a balanced investor. He firstly said he was cautious 
and later ticked a box to say he had a balanced attitude to risk, but TP simply went on to 
assume he was a balanced investor, rather than explore with Mr P what his real attitude to 
risk was. 
I appreciate TP say the investigator put too much weight on the critical yield. I do consider 
financial viability of a transfer very important as for the most people the value of their 
benefits will be highly relevant and a significant consideration. Having said that I agree with 
TP that whether the benefits in the DB scheme can be matched or exceeded after a transfer 
should not be the only consideration when assessing whether a transfer is suitable. 
So Ive considered Mr Ps circumstances and recorded objectives to see whether a transfer 
was in his best interest. However, Im not persuaded it was. Ill explain why.
The reasons for transferring his pensions were mainly flexibility and lump sum death 
benefits. 
TP said Mr Ps required income would be met through at age 65 from his other DB pension 
income and the rental income from his buy-to-let properties. Two years later his state 
pension would be added to this. And so he didnt need the guaranteed income from his 
BSPS scheme.The same was explained for Mr Ps partner. She had no requirement for a spouses pension, 
but could meet her income requirements before her own retirement through her salary and 
the rental income and her state pension would replace her salary in retirement.
It's evident that Mr P and his partner had other assets and provisions than the BSPS 
pension, so they werent entirely reliant on it which gave them some capacity for loss. 
However, the BSPS still made up a significant part of his pension provisions and provided 
very valuable benefits. I cant see any persuasive reasons why he needed to give them up 
and take unnecessary risks with his pension.
TPs retirement plans heavily relied on the rental income from the investment properties. 
However, this income wasnt guaranteed. One or both properties could be left without 
tenants at some point or not achieve the desired rent. The properties would likely also need 
maintenance during which a tenancy might not be possible and further costs would arise.
If Mr P chose to move to BSPS2 he could rely on fully guaranteed and increasing income 
from both his DB schemes. He would not have to rely on uncertain rental income or other 
non-guaranteed provisions. And even if the scheme still had fallen into the PPF later on, it 
would have provided enough to cover his income requirements. He also still could have 
retired early from BSPS2 if this became a real objective nearer the time.
Mr P had two flexible pension schemes which taking into account growth over the coming 19 
years would have provided a decent amount of flexibility. He could have taken tax-free cash 
lump sums and income flexibly when and if required. 
I appreciate that being so far away from retirement age Mr P likely wanted to keep the option
open to take flexible benefits in retirement. However, he had other pensions, one with
generous employer contributions and many years to build up further pension provisions. He
could have accessed these pensions flexibly when he chose to retire. So in fact keeping the 
DB benefits would have given him a risk-free guaranteed income and he could still have 
flexible benefits through his other pension provision. He didnt need, in my view, to transfer 
his DB benefits for flexibility when he could have achieved this through his other pensions.
I havent seen evidence that TP established a real need for flexibility beyond what his 
existing provisions could provide. I appreciate keeping his DB benefits might have given him 
a higher income than the £1,200 per month recorded as required. However, excess income 
could have been invested or used towards non-essential outgoings. In retirement Mr P and 
his partner might have wanted to spend more on holidays, entertainment, socialising or other 
hobbies. I dont think having potential guaranteed disposable income in retirement was a 
disadvantage.
With regards to death benefits I think Mr Ps partner was fairly well looked after. Mr P had 
very generous death in service benefits through his employer and he had additional life 
cover of £180,000. His partner also would have inherited the investment properties and 
would have had a mortgage free family home. His children also would have benefitted from a 
dependants pension until age 23. 
If Mr P died in retirement, she still would have had her state pension, the rental income (and 
the properties as assets) and any lump sum benefits from Mr Ps non-DB pensions. 
Of course by transferring she could have potentially benefitted from a further lump sum, 
particularly if Mr P died early on. However, if he lived a long life and/or investment 
performance was not as good as expected there might not have been as much left as 
hoped. I note Mr P said his father had died at 66 with cancer. And he was worried he could die early 
too. However, Mr P was only in his mid-forties and was reported to be in good health. So I 
dont think he needed to be overly worried about this, particularly as his partner would have 
had enough income from other means in the event of his death as explained above even if 
he died early. 
In any event, whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here
was to advise Mr P about what was best for his own retirement provisions. A pension is
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think different death benefits
outweighed securing a large guaranteed, risk free and increasing income.
Ive considered the fact that a transfer did provide Mr P with more flexibility and possibly 
more death benefits, particularly if he died before his life expectancy. And I dont doubt that 
making sure his partner was looked after if he predeceased her was important to him. 
However, I think if he moved to BSPS2 he still had adequate death benefits and flexibility 
from his remaining provisions and he could rely on a guaranteed income for life which would 
cover his income needs and quite possibly could provide him with higher benefits overall in 
retirement. It would give him peace of mind that he didnt really need to worry about his 
retirement income. 
Im not persuaded that giving up a significant amount of guaranteed income was in Mr Ps 
best interest in return for benefits he didnt have a real need for.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr P approached TP at a time when BSPS members were concerned about their pensions. 
Lots of his colleagues at the time would have been transferring out of the scheme and he 
likely was worried his pension would end up in the PPF.  So I think its quite possible that Mr 
P came to TP leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was TPs obligation to 
give Mr P an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interest. Mr P should 
have been advised, in my view, to consider a move to BSPS2. TP also should have 
explained that even if BSPS2 failed and Mr P was moved to the PPF, the benefits provided 
would still be very valuable. And if TP had explained properly why not transferring his DB 
benefits was in his best interest I have no reason to believe he wouldnt have listened to the 
adviser.
Summary
Overall, Im not persuaded based on the contemporaneous evidence provided that the 
advice given to Mr P was in his best interest. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk free and 
increasing income that was extremely valuable. By transferring he was risking obtaining 
overall lower retirement benefits and there were no other particular reasons in my view 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. I dont think his options with regards to his 
DB scheme were properly explored and they were too quickly dismissed on the grounds of 
Mr P not requiring fixed income and wanting flexibility and lump sum death benefits. 
However, as described above I think the benefits the DB scheme would provide as well as 
the flexibility of his other pensions were underplayed. I cant see that other options how 
guaranteed income, flexibility and death benefits could be achieved without giving up the DB 
benefits from BSPS were meaningfully discussed. Too much reliance was put on Mr Ps 
riskier rental income and the unexplained need for more flexibility than Mr P already had. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible,into the position he would now be in but for the poor advice he was given. I consider he
would have selected to move to BSPS2. So calculations should be made on this 
assumption.
TP argues that if a loss is calculated, redress should take form of a deferred annuity. 
However, the regulators guidance sets out how redress should be paid and I see no reason 
to depart from this guidance.
TP must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
TP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition TP should pay Mr P £350 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date
TP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes TP
to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above,
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full,
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require True 
Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr
P can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman