DRN-3193440
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Stripe Payments UK Limited closed his account unreasonably and
without notice.  
What happened
On 5 January 2021, Stripe Payments closed Mr Ss account with them without any prior
notice to Mr S. Stripe explained that it had conducted a review of Mr Ss account and
suspected that it wasnt in compliance with its service agreement, and specifically that it
presented a level of risk for customer disputes that Stripe would be unable to support.
Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint. Stripe looked at Mr Ss complaint
and agreed that it had closed his account in error. Stripe apologised to Mr S for this and
reopened his account. Stripe also offered to provide fee free processing on the next £1,000
that Mr S processed through them as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Stripes response, especially as the closure of his account had
caused him to open an account with another service provider, meaning that the offer of fee
free processing by Stripe was effectively worthless to him. So, he referred his complaint to
this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Stripes terms and
conditions, which included a clause that Stripe could terminate an account at any time and
for any reason, meant that Stripes actions in closing Mr Ss account as they did were
legitimised. As such, they didnt feel that Mr S was eligible for any form of compensation, as
he was seeking, and therefore that the response that Stripe had already issued to Mr S
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 November 2021 as follows:
Its within the remit of this service to instruct against a business if that business has 
acted within its stated terms and conditions but an unfair outcome has occurred as a 
result. This is because the remit of this service is concerned primarily with fairness of 
outcome, and fairness of outcome isnt defined by an adherence to stated terms and 
conditions but rather to the actual outcome of what has taken place.
In this instance, Stripes terms and conditions include a clause that effectively permit 
Stripe to close an account at any time for any reason. Stripe contend that theyve 
acted according to these terms  to which Mr S agreed when opening an account 
with them  and that it therefore cant be the case that theyve acted unreasonably.
Its very difficult for me to reach the same conclusion as Stripe here, and I dont 
consider it fair that Stripe would act to close Mr Ss account with immediate effect 
and without any prior notification being given to Mr S, and this is especially so given 
that Stripe later acknowledged that they shouldnt have taken such action following 
their own review.
As such, Im satisfied that it was unfair for Stripe to have closed Mr Ss account in the
manner that they did, and I do feel that Mr S has incurred a level of upset and 
inconvenience that merits compensation.
Furthermore, given that one consequence of Stripe closing Mr Ss account was that 
Mr S sought to open an account with another service provider, Im also satisfied that 
the offer that Stripe made to Mrs S  to allow him to have fee free processing on the 
next £1,000 he processes with them  is effectively worthless to Mr S, and therefore 
doesnt constitute a fair offer of compensation to him.
It follows that my provisional decision here will be that Im upholding this complaint in 
Mr Ss favour and that Stripe must make a payment to Mr S of £200. It will also be a 
condition of this provisional decision that this payment mustnt take the form of a 
credit to Mr Ss Stripe account, unless Mr S gives his permission for it do so.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr S and Stripe the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. However, both Mr S and Stripe confirmed that they were happy to accept my 
provisional decision, and as such I can confirm that my final decision will be that I am 
upholding this complaint in Mr Ss favour on the basis described above.
  
Putting things right
Stripe must make a payment of £200 to Mr S to compensate him for the inconvenience this 
matter has caused. This payment must not take the form of a credit to Mr Ss Stripe account 
unless Mr S gives his permission for it to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Stripe Payments UK Limited on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman