DRN-4425440
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complains Great Lakes Insurance SE have unfairly declined their travel 
insurance claim.
All references to Great Lakes also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H and Mrs H were due to board a flight at 8:40am to Manchester, so they could 
take a connecting flight to their final destination in Prague  at 12:30pm.
Ive looked into the particular circumstances of the flights Mr H and Mrs H were
intending to take. If they took the later flight from their home airport to Manchester, it 
would have arrived at the same time as the connecting flight was taking off. So Mr H 
and Mrs H would never have made the connecting flight.
I recognise the exclusion strictly allows Great Lakes to decline the claim. It says 
Mr H and Mrs H must allow for a 12-hour delay for a claim to be accepted. But our
service will also consider whether applying that term would produce a fair and
reasonable outcome.
If Mr H and Mrs H took the next available flight to Manchester, the delay to get to
their final destination would have been over 12 hours as there were no further flights 
from Manchester to Prague that day. So, it wouldve only meant Mr H and Mrs H 
wouldve been left in Manchester as opposed to their home airport. And so, I can 
understand why they chose not to travel.
Because of that, I dont think it treats the consumer fairly and reasonably to rely on
the exclusion in these circumstances.
Great Lakes says the policy specifies it covers international flights. And as the initial 
flight to Manchester was domestic, it was not covered as Mr and Mrs H chose not to 
continue their trip.
I can see the section of the policy does specify that it covers international flights, but 
it also says a policyholder can abandon their trip if they experience a delay of 12 
hours or more. And as Ive already set out above, If Mr H and Mrs H continued their 
journey to Manchester, they wouldnt have been able to reach their final, 
international, destination in less than 12 hours. 
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Great Lakes should accept the claim and pay 8% simple interest from the 
date the claim was submitted to the day it makes payment to Mr H and Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint.
To put things right I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman