DRN-3725615
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he received from Sterling Wealth Ltd to transfer his 
personal pension to a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says the advice was not 
in line with his attitude to risk.
What happened
In 2017, Mr S was advised to transfer the benefits worth around £33,000 from his existing 
personal pension with Legal & General to a SIPP. The advice was given by an appointed 
representative acting on behalf of Sterling Wealth but for ease I will refer to Sterling Wealth 
throughout. 
At the time Mr S was aged 61 and married. He earned £14,000 per year and planned to 
retire when he reached 65.
Sterling Wealth asked Mr S to complete some answers to a risk questionnaire but didnt 
carry out a full fact-find of all his financial circumstances. Based on the answers Mr S gave, 
Sterling Wealth assessed him to be a balanced investor and recommended that he move 
his pension, on the basis that he required:
maximum growth potential within the agreed risk profile;
total flexibility when he chose to take benefits;
100% of his pension fund to be passed to beneficiaries in the event of his death; and
he liked the idea of discretionary fund management.
Mr S personal pension didnt allow flexi-access drawdown. It had a 0.5% annual 
management charge, with no exit penalties. It allowed Mr S to take 25% of the fund as tax-
free cash. Sterling Wealth said the transfer would give Mr S access to a discretionary fund 
management (DFM) arrangement. 
The charges associated with the switch were:
SIPP annual charge  0.30%
DFM portfolio  0.42%
Overall charge (fund dependent)  between 0.25% and 0.28%
It was thought the new arrangement would be cheaper than the existing pension and, based 
on the past years historical performance (11.55%), should provide a better return than the 
existing pension.
The asset allocation in the SIPP was:
Anchor - 45% (of which 15% held in cash)
Diversifier - 20% (invested in gold)
Growth - 35% (equities)
The transfer took place in September 2017.
In July 2018, Sterling Wealths representative decided to move clients who were invested 
with the discretionary fund manager into Sterling Wealth portfolios and sent documents to 
clients to complete for this. But by the time Mr S replied, a Corporate Finance Bond had 
become illiquid and could not be moved This bond accounted for 30% of Mr S funds.
Mr S complained that he should not have been advised to move his pension funds into the 
SIPP and said he had lost out as a result of this. Sterling Wealth didnt uphold the complaint 
and has said any loss was caused by Mr S failure to reply promptly to the documents 
relating to moving the bond.   
When Mr S referred his complaint to this service, our investigator thought it should be 
upheld. He didnt think Mr S should have been advised to transfer his pension funds to the 
SIPP. He asked Sterling Wealth to compare the value of Mr S SIPP with the value his 
pension would have had if he hadnt transferred and, if there was a loss, to compensate 
Mr S for this. 
The investigator also asked Sterling Wealth to pay compensation of £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr S had suffered as a result of being advised to transfer his pension.
Mr S has accepted the investigators recommendation but Sterling Wealth doesnt agree and 
has requested an ombudsmans decision. It says: 
Mr S didnt want to stay with his existing pension and take an annuity;
if it hadnt been for one fund closing the advice was fair and correct and although the 
lack of a full fact-find doesnt help, all the other documents support this view;
the complaint only happened because a particular fund had failed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to advise Mr S on his pension, Sterling Wealth needed to obtain all the relevant 
information about his circumstances and ensure its advice was suitable for him.
Sterling Wealth didnt carry out a full fact-find, so its difficult to say all of Mr S circumstances 
were taken into account. What we do know is that at the time of the advice he was 61 and 
planning to retire at 65, so only had a few years until retirement. In those circumstances, the 
aim would usually be to avoid risk and protect the assets he had. On the information 
available, Mr S was an inexperienced investor with relatively modest pension funds of 
around £33,000  and which were his main (perhaps only) source of retirement income other 
than the state pension.
Even if Mr S might have wanted to maximise his investment return in the run up to 
retirement, the priority would have been to protect the assets he already had. If there was a 
detailed fact-find that showed he had other sources of retirement income or other significant 
assets, there might have been a stronger case for switching his pension. In the absence of 
that, and since investment returns could not be guaranteed any more than those under the 
existing plan, I dont think the potential for future growth outweighed the risks involved.
Sterling Wealth said the SIPP with its DFM arrangement would lead to lower charges than 
the existing pension but from the information provided, Im not persuaded thats the case. 
The only charge mentioned for the existing pension was a 0.5% management charge. The 
combined SIPP and DFM costs appear higher. I also note that 20% of the portfolio was held 
in gold, which can fluctuate in value. I dont think such a holding was suitable for a person 
less than five years from retirement, or that any wish to have more flexibility in accessing 
benefits (or passing them to his beneficiary) outweighed the need to safeguard the value of 
his pension funds in the run up to his retirement.Mr S pension fund was modest. In my view the SIPP and DFM arrangement added a level 
of complexity and cost that wasnt needed for someone in his circumstances. Given how 
close he was to retirement, theres no reason why he needed to invest in a wider range of 
funds; he could have remained invested with his existing pension provider. I havent seen 
that this option was explored properly.
Mr S wasnt drawing his benefits, so it wasnt yet necessary for him to access funds through 
flexible drawdown. His retirement needs could have been assessed accurately once he got 
close to crystallising his benefits a few years later.
Sterling Wealth has referred to the fact Mr S didnt reply in time once there was a 
recommendation to move his funds from the bond. But what happened at that point isnt 
relevant to whether the advice to switch his pension was suitable in the first place.
Overall, I dont think the SIPP was in Mr S best interests or was suitable, and he ended up 
in investments which were higher risk than was suitable for him given his circumstances. 
Without the advice to switch his pension to a SIPP, I think its likely he would have remained 
with his existing personal pension.
Finally, I agree with our investigator that it would have been distressing for Mr S to find that, 
having followed the advice to switch his pension, he had suffered a loss in value. So its fair 
that compensation should be paid to reflect this. 
Putting things right
My aim is to place Mr S in the position hed likely be in now, had it not been for the advice. I 
think this would have meant he remained invested in the existing Legal & General personal 
pension.
Any loss Mr S has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension on the basis that it had remained in the existing personal pension, and subtracting 
the current value of the pension from this notional value. If the answer is negative, theres a 
gain and no redress is payable.
If theres a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr S pension plan. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr S hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to the likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The elements of the SIPP portfolio that are illiquid should be treated as having nil value for 
the calculation.
Mr S should be allowed to wind up the SIPP and move his pension fund to a provider of his 
choice, if this is what he wants to do. If Mr S cannot wind up the SIPP because of the illiquid assets and is therefore prevented from moving his funds elsewhere, Sterling Wealth should 
agree to pay five years worth of the SIPP fees and charges. 
Sterling Wealth should also pay Mr S compensation of £250 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Sterling Wealth Ltd to pay the compensation set out above.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Sterling Wealth Ltd receiving 
Mr S acceptance of my final decision, interest should be added to the compensation at the 
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sterling Wealth Ltd deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Sterling Wealth Ltd should 
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman