DRN-3140173
The complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to correctly set up his direct debit resulting in 
missed payments being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr N says that while he has never missed a payment towards his debt with HSBC, HSBC 
kept cancelling his direct debit which resulted in his payments towards his credit card not 
being made. This meant missed payments were recorded on his credit file affecting his credit 
score. He says the situation has affected his mental wellbeing and that HSBC has not 
helped in response to the errors and hasnt provided him with any compensation.
HSBC issued a final response letter in July 2021. It accepted that a mistake had been made 
regarding Mr Ns direct debit and said feedback would be provided. It confirmed that the 
direct debit had been set up and that any negative information it had recorded with the credit 
reference agencies about the missed payments would be removed. It also noted that Mr N 
had been issued a letter saying his credit limit would be reduced but this was an error and 
his credit limit had been reinstated. It offered £150 compensation for the issues Mr N had 
experienced. 
Our investigator noted that there was an error which affected Mr Ns account from April to 
July when it was resolved. She noted the stress Mr N had been caused but also that there 
wasnt any evidence of any financial detriment and that Mr Ns credit file had been amended 
to reflect no missed payments. Based on this she thought £150 compensation was 
reasonable.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigators view. He thought £350 compensation was 
reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has accepted that a mistake was made with Mr Ns direct debit. Our role isnt to 
punish the bank but where a mistake has been made to ensure that the customer is put back 
in the position they would have been had the mistake not been made and, where 
appropriate, to award compensation.
In this case the issue with the direct debit resulted in payments being missed to Mr Ns credit 
card account. He says this resulted in missed payment markers being applied to his credit 
file. In its final response letter dated July 2021, HSBC confirmed that the direct debit had 
been set up and that Mr Ns credit file would be amended so that the missed payments 
would be removed. It also confirmed that Mr Ns credit limit would be reinstated. These 
actions put Mr N back in the position he would have been had the mistake not been made.
I can understand that the issues with Mr Ns direct debit payments would have caused him 
stress and inconvenience. Mr N has explained that he has never missed payments and so 
having negative information recorded on his credit file due to this issue will have been 
particularly distressing. He also had to make calls to HSBC to get the issue resolved. 
Therefore, I agree in this case that compensation should be paid.
I understand that Mr N feels the compensation that HSBC paid of £150 wasnt enough. I 
appreciate his comments but having noted the time this issue was ongoing, the actions 
HSBC took to resolve it and as I have no evidence to suggest the issue caused Mr N any 
financial detriment, I think the £150 compensation paid by HSBC is enough in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has done enough to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman