DRN-4045046
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) unfairly declined a claim 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs A contacted Tesco to make a claim for a water leak. She noticed damage to her kitchen 
floor and when this was investigated, the water cylinder was found to be leaking. Tesco sent 
a surveyor to assess the damage and then declined the claim. It said the damage was from 
before the policy inception and suggested to Mrs A that she contact her previous insurer.
When Mrs A complained, Tesco sent another surveyor, who also declined the claim. It 
maintained that the damage was from before the policy started and that Mrs A would have 
been aware of it. So, it said the claim wasnt for it to deal with. 
So, Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
it was reasonable for Tesco to decide that the damage was from before Tesco was Mrs As 
insurer and that she was also likely to have been aware of the damage.
As Mrs A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When Mrs A contacted Tesco to make a claim, she had only recently changed insurers. So, 
she had been insured by Tesco for about seven weeks. Tesco has said the damage 
happened before it was her insurer and that she should approach her previous insurer. 
Im aware Mrs A then contacted her previous insurer. It said the date of the leak was 
unknown but that the period Mrs A had been insured by Tesco was enough time for the 
damage identified to have happened. It said it wouldnt consider the claim unless it could be 
provided with evidence the leak happened while it was the insurer. I should note that my 
decision isnt about the actions or decision of the previous insurer. However, I asked Tesco 
to consider what the previous insurer had said and to consider whether it should contact the 
previous insurer. When Tesco replied, it said it had referred the decision back to the second 
surveyor who had assessed the damage and it was satisfied its decision to decline the claim 
was correct.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was an escape of water, which was something the 
policy provided cover for. So, Ive looked at the damage to see whether it was reasonable to 
decide it happened before Tesco was the insurer. When Tesco replied to my request, it put 
particular emphasis on where its surveyor had said:
It is evident that the leakage from the hot water cylinder has run down the cylinder, and the 
subsequent saturation has caused bowing of the supporting carcass. The level of water 
damage required to cause the deflection of the carcass would take some time to develop, 
and the damage would have been evident given the location of the leak and the resultant de-
bonding of ceramic floor tiles. The kickboard had also
completely disintegrated.
Such a break down would be considered noticeable as the leak was above the unit, and 
distortion of the unit in a prominent location such as the kitchen would have been evident.
So, the surveyor said the water damage would have taken some time to develop. However, 
the surveyor doesnt seem to have quantified that time period and whether it was more likely 
weeks or months and why that was the case. I can see there were signs of mould growth 
and water damage, including damage to the cupboard carcass. There were also water stains 
on the outside of the hot water cylinder, although its my understanding this had a jacket on 
it. But I dont think it has been explained why if the damage started shortly after Tesco 
became the insurer, this wasnt enough time for the damage to have occurred. So, Im not 
currently persuaded that Tesco has sufficient evidence to show the damage happened 
before it was the insurer.
Insurance policies cover one-off insured events. The damage seemed to happen over a 
period of time. Gradual damage was an exclusion under the policy. So, Ive thought about 
this as well. Our normal approach is that where there is cover under the policy, but a 
policyholder couldnt reasonably have been expected to be aware of the gradual damage, 
well often say it is fair for the insurer to deal with the claim.
Tesco has said it thinks Mrs A would have been aware of the damage some time prior to 
notification of the claim. This is because of the bowing of the cupboard carcass, the de-
bonding of the ceramic tiles and the kickboard having disintegrated. The surveyor seemed to 
assess that the water would have leaked through and around the base of the cupboard and 
then got under the ceramic tiles. Mrs A said she became aware of the damage when the tiles 
cracked and, after some investigation, a leak from the cylinder was found.
The cylinder was located in a kitchen cupboard and it was the only item in it. Im not currently 
persuaded Mrs A would have had any specific reason to open it during the time she was 
insured by Tesco or that she would therefore have seen the damage within it. Tesco has 
said water had been escaping from the front of the unit. I havent seen evidence to show 
there would have been water visible when the cupboard door was closed. Tesco appears to 
be suggesting that water would have been visible on the kickboard or on the floor, but I 
havent seen evidence to show this was the case. 
Ive seen evidence of the mould on the front of the base of the cupboard, but this was 
covered by a door and the surveyors report described the door as undamaged. Although the 
kickboard seemed to be rotten, Im not clear why this wasnt more likely from the water 
leaking through the bottom and the sides of the cupboard or why any rot in the kickboard 
would have been visible before someone searched for the source of the leak. I also dont 
think the report is clear why the ceramic tiles didnt crack or de-bond around the time Mrs A 
reported the damage, which was what seemed to be prompt her to make a claim. Based on 
what Ive currently seen, Im not persuaded Mrs A was, or should have been, aware of the 
damage before the time period in which she made the claim.
So, thinking about all of the above, I currently think Tesco hasnt shown it was more likely 
than not that the damage happened before it was the insurer or that Mrs A was likely to be 
aware of the damage for some time before she contacted Tesco to make a claim. As a 
result, I currently intend to say Tesco should settle the claim for the water leak as though it 
happened while it was the insurer and that it cant apply the exclusion for gradual damage. If 
Tesco pays a cash settlement for any part of the claim, it must pay interest on that amount, 
as Mrs A lost use of the money.Ive also thought about compensation. Although I think Tesco sending a second surveyor 
was fair in principle, I think the overall consideration of the claim was poor and Im not 
currently persuaded that it fairly and clearly explained why the claim wasnt covered. I think 
Tesco should pay Mrs A £200 compensation because of the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 March 2023.
Mrs A replied and agreed with my decision. As she thought Tesco had put emphasis on the 
condition of the kickboard when it declined the claim, she explained again that she wasnt 
aware that the kickboard had disintegrated until after Tesco had been notified of the claim.
Tesco replied and confirmed it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent identified any reason to change my view on how this complaint 
should be resolved.
Putting things right
Tesco should settle the claim on the basis that it was the insurer at the time of the damage 
and without applying an exclusion for gradual damage. If it pays a cash settlement, it should 
pay interest on that amount. It should also pay £200 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
Settle the claim for the escape of water on the basis that it was the insurer at the time 
and without applying the exclusion for gradual damage.
If it pays a cash settlement, pay 8% simple interest on it from the date on which the claim 
was first made to the date on which it makes the payment.
If Tesco Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman