DRN-4047035
The complaint
Miss D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct bank did not refund a series 
of payment she has disputed. 
What happened
Miss D returned from a holiday abroad and after reviewing her statements, found a number 
of transactions that she did not recognise, which all occurred on 1 September 2022. Miss D 
disputed two of the transactions for £47.85 and £83.74 that were completed by contactless 
payment and said this occurred when her debit card was taken by the merchant following a 
chip and pin transaction as they went to get another machine. The second two transactions 
for £390 and £610 were ones that she recognised, but she was told the amounts were in the 
local currency and not in sterling. Because of this, the amounts were much higher in value 
than expected.
First Direct issued a final response letter in which it explained that as chip and were used for 
some of the transactions, they would not be considered fraudulent. And Miss D did not lose 
her card at any point, so they did not agree there was a reasonable point of compromise for 
fraud, and they did not uphold the complaint. 
Miss D referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They 
explained that Miss Ds testimony about the contactless payments was backed up by the 
evidence. This showed the two contactless payments occurring in quick succession following 
a chip and pin transaction. So, they recommended that First Direct refund these two 
payments, which they agreed to. However, they did not agree that the last two payments 
should be refunded as, while she had not intended to pay the amounts she did, Miss D did 
authorise the transactions, so she was liable for them. 
Miss D did not agree with the outcome and she pointed to another decision our service 
made which she felt was similar to hers, which was upheld. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Direct has agreed to refund the contactless payments for £47.85 and £83.74 following 
the Investigators recommendation, and I agree that this was the right outcome. Because of 
this, I see no reason to comment on these further.
Miss D says that while she did authorise the two payments of £610 and £390, she thought 
she was paying in the local currency and not sterling, so did not expect the values to be as 
high as they were.  Generally speaking, the starting position in law is that an account 
provider is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to 
make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then 
be responsible for the transactions that they have authorised. While I recognise that Miss D 
did not intend for the values to be as high as they were, the starting position in law is that 
First Direct was obliged to follow her instruction and process the payments. 
In addition, when the amounts are compared to her usual account activity, they did not 
appear to be out of character or unusual. So, I dont think First Direct should reasonable 
have stopped the payments for further checks before processing them. 
Miss D has highlighted another case that our service upheld which she feels is similar to her 
own. However, every case has to be considered under its own merits as there are multiple 
factors that can affect an outcome. In this case, Miss D has been unable to provide evidence 
of the intended amount of the items, such as a receipt, and she has been unable to contact 
the merchant directly to try and arrange a refund. And the only evidence available for me to 
consider is First Directs systems showing she used chip and pin to authorise the 
transactions. 
Having carefully considered everything, I agree that First Direct should refund the two 
contactless payments of £47.85 and £83.74. However, I do not agree that they need to 
refund the £610 and £390.  
My final decision
I now direct HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct bank to refund the two transactions for 
£47.85 and £83.74. However, I do not uphold the other two transactions for £610 and £390 
for the reasons set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman