DRN-3178723
The complaint
  This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Ms B used to hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Theyre unhappy that Barclays omitted to release the charge on their property when they 
repaid the mortgage, and then delayed doing so when they came to sell the property.  
Mr and Ms B are asking to be compensated for extra costs incurred due to the selling delay.
What happened
  By way of a provisional decision issued on 16 November 2021, I set out, with reasons, how 
I intended to determine this complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
The history and background of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (rounding figures where 
necessary) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr and Ms B repaid their Barclays mortgage in 2012. In 2020, they decided to sell their 
home and move to rented accommodation. As the sale was progressing, Mr and Mrs B were 
also making arrangements to ensure theyd have a rental property to move into when their 
sale completed. It came to light that Barclays had omitted to release the charge over their 
property when the mortgage was paid off in 2012. 
Assured by Barclays that this would take a few days to sort out (following which the sale 
could complete) Mr and Ms B committed to a rental agreement in September 2020. 
However, it then took Barclays three months to remove the charge, during which period, the 
sale nearly fell through. When Mr and Ms B complained, Barclays offered Mr and Ms B £450 
compensation and agreed to consider covering their additional expense, subject to 
satisfactory proof of the costs incurred, and their being linked to the delay.
When they case came to us, our investigator thought the compensation should be £500 
rather than £450, but she wasnt persuaded that Mr and Ms B had proven a link between the 
delay in removing the charge and the additional costs they were claiming for. Mr and Ms B 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. I also 
have to ensure I dont include any information that might identify Mr and Ms B when my 
decision is published.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive reached the following conclusions. 
This isnt a case where I have to decide fault; Barclays has accepted its failings, apologised 
and agreed to pay redress. My job is to decide what that redress should be. 
Ill deal with the question of compensation first; I agree with the investigator that, in all the 
circumstances, the impact on Mr and Ms B warrants Barclays paying them £500. Aside from 
anything else, it will have been immensely frustrating and worrying for them to face the risk 
of losing their sale simply because Barclays was taking so long to carry out a simple 
administrative task that should have been done eight years earlier in any event. 
That brings me to Mr and Ms Bs claim for reimbursement of extra expense; this falls into two 
broad categories; payment for the additional work their solicitors did in relation to dealing 
with Barclays over the release of the charge, and the rent they paid for a property they didnt 
move into for three months.
On the former, Ive seen the completion statement issued by Mr and Ms Bs solicitors after 
the sale; this shows their legal fees as £4,200. However, what that doesnt do is tell me how 
much of those fees were for extra work to resolve the problem with Barclays charge, and 
how much were for the normal work that would have been carried out for the sale 
transaction. Weve asked Mr and Ms B for a more detailed breakdown but its not been 
provided; without that, I cant fairly make an award for claimed additional legal fees.
On the second aspect of the claim, Mr and Ms B have provided evidence showing that they 
began paying monthly rent of £795 in September 2020. Im satisfied they committed to doing 
that in reliance on an understanding from Barclays that the charge would be released swiftly, 
allowing them to complete their sale and move into the rental property. 
It is entirely down to Barclays failings that it took another three months for that to happen. It 
is, therefore, quite fair that Barclays should make good Mr and Ms Bs loss during that 
period. That said, their loss is not the three months rent they paid for a property they werent 
occupying. If things had gone right, Mr and Ms B would still have paid that rent; the 
difference is theyd have sold their house and been living in the rented house three months 
sooner.
Mr and Ms Bs true loss derives from the delay in receiving their net sale proceeds; Barclays 
need to compensate them for being denied access to that money, by paying interest at 8% 
simple on the net sale proceeds for the delay period. I cant know for sure exactly when the 
sale could have gone through if Barclays had removed the charge promptly; for simplicitys 
sake, I propose to use three months.
I wont reproduce the exact figure for the net sale proceeds here; the completion statement 
shows it to be a sum in excess of £560,000. If my final decision is the same as this 
provisional decision, and Mr and Mrs B accept it, our investigator will provide Barclays with a 
copy of the completion statement to evidence this sum.The parties were given until 30 November 2021 to make any further comments; both have 
replied sooner than that. Barclays has accepted my provisional decision without further 
comment. Mr and Ms B also accepted it, albeit reluctantly. They say the award Ive indicated 
is, in their words, ridiculously small.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
   Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done 
so, I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint by ordering Barclays Bank UK PLC to: 
pay Mr and Ms B three months interest at 8% simple* on their net sale proceeds; and
pay Mr and Ms B £500 compensation for their time, trouble and upset. 
*If Barclays considered it should deduct basic rate income tax from the interest element of 
this award, it should then supply Mr and Ms B with the relevant tax certificate.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman