DRN-2848381
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  which Ill refer 
to as Red Sands  has unfairly declined a claim he made for a scratch on the bonnet of his 
car.
 
What happened
Mr F bought a SMART Insurance policy, for his car, in November 2020. The policy is 
underwritten by Red Sands.
SMART stands for Small Minor Accident Repair Technology.
Mr F made a claim under his policy for a scratch on the bonnet of his car in February 2021. 
Red Sands declined the claim because scratches to a car bonnet are only covered if they 
can be repaired using SMART techniques  which it said couldnt be done in Mr Fs case.
Mr F complained about Red Sands decision. In its final response it said SMART repairs for 
a bonnet only include stone chip repairs which will be weatherproofed and disguised. It said 
weatherproofed and disguised is a repair technique which can only be applied to a chip as it 
is limited to a paint touch-in to protect the area from further damage or corrosion. Because 
the damage to Mr Fs car was a bonnet scratch, a SMART repair couldnt be achieved and 
so Red Sands said the decision to decline the claim was correct.
Mr F says the product isnt fit for purpose and has been misrepresented to him. He says the 
sales brochure includes a picture of a scratch on a car bonnet which is misleading if that isnt 
covered. He also says that the limits of a SMART repair are not defined in the policy 
wording, so he feels its unfair for his claim to be declined on this basis.
One of our investigators considered Mr Fs complaint but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said Red Sands had considered Mr Fs claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and declined it fairly. She also pointed out that the image on the sales brochure was 
not of a scratch to a bonnet, but rather to a front bumper/wheel arch panel.
Mr F didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should highlight that, like our investigator, Im only considering the actions of 
Red Sands under this complaint. This means Ill consider its decision to decline the claim. 
But I wont be considering Mr Fs concerns that the policy was misrepresented or mis-sold to 
him because it wasnt Red Sands that sold the policy.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think Mr Fs complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Red Sands has provided copies of Mr Fs policy information  which was provided to him 
when he took out the policy. The terms and conditions explain what the policy covers. Under 
the heading What is included it states:
Within the Period of Insurance the Insurer will pay for the cost of repairs to minor 
dents, light scratches, light scuffs and chips as a result of accidental damage from 
Day-to-Day Motoring
The general exclusions are set out below this. These state: 
There will be no cover under this policy in respect of:
1. Any damage to the vehicle;
1.1 which is not Minor Repair Damage
1.2 

Minor repair damage is given a specific definition in the definitions section:
Minor Repair Damage (not including bodyshop repairs) means Chips, Minor dents 
and Light Scratches caused by Day-to-Day Motoring, falling in line within the 
parameters of the Template.
The template is included with the information provided to Mr F. This states that the maximum 
size of a SMART Protect repair is 15cm in diameter. It also says:
SMART Protect excludes damage to the bonnet, boot and roof of the vehicle or any 
other damage requiring a bodyshop repair or which cannot be SMART repaired.
The above exclusion is also stated in the general exclusions:
1.13 roofs and bonnets are only covered if a SMART repair is achievable, bodyshop 
repairs are excluded
The Insurance Product Information Document also restates this and another relevant 
exclusion. Under the heading What is not insured? it states:
Any damage where the technician confirms the repair requires a bodyshop repair 
and is not a minor damage repair and/or is deemed unsafe to carry out the repair due 
to manufacturer guidelines.
Any damage caused to bonnets, roofs, and boots if a minor damage repair is 
unachievable.
Mr F has explained why he believes his claim should be covered. His reasons are mainly 
that the damage to his bonnet falls within the 15cm diameter on the template, so it should be 
considered minor damage and be covered, and because the terms of the policy do not 
define what a SMART repair is, or its limitations. So, Mr F feels its unfair to rely on this to 
decline the claim.Ive thought carefully about everything Mr F has said and provided. I accept that the scratch 
on the bonnet is within the 15cm diameter set out on the template. But this alone doesnt 
mean it should be considered minor repair damage or that the claim should succeed. This is 
because minor repair damage doesnt include any repair that would need to be carried out 
by a bodyshop. The policy also specifically excludes damage to bonnets which are unable to 
be repaired using SMART techniques.
Mr F is correct that the policy terms and conditions do not specify what a SMART repair is. 
But I think the terms are clear that any repair that is required to be carried out by a bodyshop 
is not covered. In addition, I would point out that the information provided to Mr F, alongside 
the terms and conditions, does define what a SMART repair is. The document headed 
Information about our finance and insurance services specifically states that SMART 
stands for Small Minor Accident Repair Technology.
In this case, Red Sands technical expert has reviewed the damage to Mr Fs car and 
determined that it cannot be repaired using SMART techniques. This means a repair would 
need to be carried out by a bodyshop  which is specifically excluded under the terms of the 
policy. So, based on all of the information provided, Im satisfied that Red Sands decision to 
decline Mr Fs claim is in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and that it is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has also complained that the sales brochure for the SMART Insurance is misleading. 
He states one of the pictures shows a scratch to a bonnet. He feels this should be amended 
considering the damage shown wouldnt be covered.
Red Sands says the image referred to by Mr F doesnt show a bonnet, but rather the front 
wheel arch panel. It says the light shown in the picture is not a headlamp but rather a fog 
light and that if the picture was showing a headlamp and bonnet, the proportions of the car 
would not make sense.
In my view, having looked at the picture and considered Red Sands comments, it does 
appear more likely that the damage shown is to a bumper panel rather than a bonnet. So, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Red Sands to amend its policy 
brochure. Red Sands might want to take into account Mr Fs feedback, but Ill leave it to 
Red Sands to decide whether it wants to change things.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman