DRN-2808528
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank plc trading as Virgin Money closed his account without 
providing a valid reason.
What happened
Mr H had a current account with Virgin Money. He says hed complained to Virgin Money 
about certain matters and made a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). He says that 
shortly after this Virgin Money closed his account without giving him a specific reason for 
doing so. He thinks that it closed his account because hed made a DSAR.
He complained to Virgin Money. It investigated his complaint. It said it had closed his 
account in line with its terms and conditions. It set out the list of reasons in the terms and 
conditions which entitled it to do this. It said it had given him 28 business days notice of its 
decision to close his account. It also said it had tried to arrange a meeting with him, before 
sending the letter, to discuss its reasons for wanting to close his account but he had declined 
that invitation.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed requested the DSAR on 18 February 2020 and been given 
notice about Virgins Moneys decision to close his account on 9 March 2020.  He thought 
any reasonable person would see that the two matters were related. The decision to close 
his account had damaged his reputation. He also said the request to meet with Virgin Money 
had been about complaints hed raised. It was disingenuous of Virgin Money to now try to 
say that this was to discuss closure of his account. He complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He thought Virgin Money was able to close Mr Hs 
account in the same way as Mr H couldve closed his account. He said we looked at whether 
it had acted fairly when it had done so. Virgin Money had given Mr H 43 days notice before 
it had closed his account. Our investigator didnt think it had discriminated against him when 
it had done so, and the account had been closed fairly.
Mr H didnt agree. He thought that our service shouldve done more to find out the exact 
reason why Virgin Money had closed his account and examine whether there was any 
supporting evidence. He said that Virgin Money had acted like a dictator and had trampled 
on his rights as a customer.
Our investigator didnt change his view. He said Virgin had provided an explanation why the 
account was closed under its terms and conditions. But he said the specifics didnt have to 
be disclosed as part of his investigation  just whether the account was closed in line with 
the terms and conditions.
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just point out that Mr H has made a number of complaints to our service 
about Virgin Money. In this decision, Im only dealing with the complaint hes made about 
Virgin Moneys decision to close his account. His other complaints need to be dealt with 
separately.
It is the case that a bank is entitled to close a customers account. This is set out in the terms 
and conditions for Mr Hs account. Those terms and conditions say that an account can be 
closed, without notice, in certain circumstances which are clearly set out. They also state 
that Virgin Money can close an account as long as it gives two months notice in writing. The 
terms and conditions dont require Virgin Money to give any reason for its decision where it 
gives two months notice.
So, I agree with our investigator when he said that Virgin Money is entitled to close Mr Hs 
account. He also said we look at whether it acted fairly when it made that decision.
Mr H wasnt given two months notice. He was given 43 days notice or 28 business days. 
The letter was issued on 9 March 2020. Ive looked at that letter and it didnt specify a 
reason for the decision to close the account. Mr H says hes entitled to know the reason.
After Mr H complained, Virgin Money said, in its final response letter, that it had closed his 
account because it felt he no longer met its criteria and quoted the provisions of the terms 
and conditions which allowed it to close the account immediately. It also said hed been 
invited several times to discuss his account with the manager of the Virgin Money Lounge 
(VML), but hed declined. Subsequently in its email dated 7 May 2020 Virgin Money clarified 
that the reason it had terminated its relationship with him was due to his behaviour in its 
lounge.
When considering whether Virgin Money acted fairly here, Ive taken into account the terms 
and conditions and also the industry guidance set out in the document published by UK 
Finance  Principles when exiting a customer (the Principles).
In circumstances where an account is being closed immediately its not always the case that 
a bank has to disclose its reasons. There may be legal or other reasons which prevent it 
from doing so. The Principles mention that there may be situations where it is not 
appropriate or permissible to engage in a dialogue to explain reasoning for closing an 
account.
So, I dont think its fair to require Virgin Money to disclose its reasoning in this case. But, I 
have taken into consideration the fact that it has told Mr H subsequently, in its email of 7 
May 2020, that its decision was because of his behaviour in its lounge - Ill comment on that 
further, below.
Mr H has suggested that the real reason relates to the fact that hed made a DSAR. He 
made that request on 18 February. But although I can understand why he has mentioned the 
proximity of that date to the date of the closure letter (9 March 2020), I can see that thered 
been ongoing issues, from shortly after June 2018, in his relationship with Virgin Money. 
In an email dated 31 January 2020, the VML manager had invited him to attend a meeting to
 discuss some important matters based on the emails you have sent to {named 
employees} Mr H declined saying that it was inadvisable to have any further meetings because of certain 
referrals to police that hed made. The matters referred to in these emails related to issues 
arising from conduct in the VML lounge. And, its fair to say that there is dispute about those 
matters. Mr H says hes referred various aspects of things associated with these matters to 
police and to other regulatory bodies. Hes entitled to do that, and those matters can be 
investigated as required. Its not appropriate in these circumstances for me to comment any 
further on the substance of those matters.
What I can comment on is whether Virgin Money acted fairly and reasonably when it closed 
Mr Hs account. 
Virgin Money has provided copies of its records which show that it had issued verbal 
warnings to Mr H, about his conduct in the VML. These warnings had been issued over the 
period since June 2018 when the VML had been opened. It says that despite this Mr H 
continued to act in a way which was not in line with how it had asked him to behave. The 
VML manager decided that his conduct was such that he should be asked to close his 
account. Having looked at the recommendation sent to the senior manager, Im satisfied on 
balance, that the reason for the recommendation was not related to the DSAR. It was related 
to issues about Mr Hs conduct in the VML.
The VML manager complied with Virgin Moneys process which required her 
recommendation to be overseen by a senior manager. The matter was referred to the senior 
manager on 6 March 2020. The senior manager accepted the recommendation and thats 
why the account was closed. This approach is in line with the Principles referred to above. 
So, I think Virgin Money acted reasonably when it followed its own processes before closing 
the account.
The reason for Virgin Moneys decision to close the account was that Mr Hs conduct was 
unacceptable. In line with the terms and conditions for the account, it couldve closed his 
account immediately. It didnt do that. Instead it gave Mr H 43 days notice. And it told him 
about the Current Account Switch process which includes a guarantee that an account 
switch can be completed in seven days. 
Ive taken on board all that Mr H has told us about why he feels hes been treated unfairly 
here and his concerns around why Virgin Money has closed his account. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Virgin Money has acted unfairly when closing his account  or in 
how it has done so. That means I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Clydesdale Bank plc 
trading as Virgin Money.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman