DRN-1747571
The complaint
Mr C complains that Amigo Loans Ltd was irresponsible to allow him to be a guarantor.
What happened
Mr C was the guarantor on a £5,000 fixed sum loan taken out on by his son on 22 February 
2019. The loan was to be repaid over 12 months at £515.29 per month.
Mr C says he could not afford to be guarantor for the loan and if Amigo had looked at his pay 
slips and bank statements it would have known that. He says Amigo also knew a credit 
check would not have shown other loans for which he was a guarantor and therefore cannot 
be used as a reasonable assessment of affordability. Mr C adds that he was already a 
guarantor for another £5,000 loan taken out just two days earlier and he could not afford the 
monthly repayments on both loans. Mr C explains that he believed the Amigo loan was a 
replacement for the earlier loan, but that was not the case. He says that, as a responsible 
lender, Amigo should now remove him as a guarantor.
Amigo says it checked Mr Cs credit file and asked him to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment. It says that it used a third party to verify his income and was 
satisfied his expenditure was reasonable compared with national averages. Amigo says that, 
based on the information it had, it found Mr C could afford the monthly instalment should he 
be required to pay. It adds that Mr C did not mention the other loan during the pre-pay-out 
call.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She made no finding on 
whether the checks Amigo carried out showed the loan was affordable to Mr Cs son, but 
considered it had obtained informed consent from Mr C to act as guarantor. She wasnt 
satisfied that Amigo had done enough checks of Mr Cs financial position, but found it likely 
that had it done so, it would still have found he could afford the repayments if necessary.
Mr C did not dispute the finding on consent, but responded to say, in summary, that Amigo 
also had access to his sons credit file and should have assessed his (Mr Cs) ability to pay 
based on two £5,000 loans. He says Amigo clearly knew that guarantor loans do not show 
on a credit report and, therefore, he says, it used an inadequate method of assessment and 
should have explicitly asked him whether he had any other guarantor loans. Mr C adds that 
this service has ruled in his favour for similar complaints about other guarantor loans, the 
details of which he provided.
I havent considered the affordability of the loan for Mr Cs son in this decision. As Mr C 
hasnt disputed that he consented to be guarantor, I need to decide whether Amigo acted 
responsibly by allowing him to guarantee his sons loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Amigo approved the lending. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Amigo needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not Mr C could afford to be the guarantor.
Sections 5.2A.32 of CONC says the following:
Lenders should have regard to:
othe total potential liability of the guarantor under the guarantee;
othe duration (or likely duration) of the guarantee;
oany other costs, including any charge for non-compliance with the guarantee, 
which will or may be payable by or on behalf of the guarantor in connection 
with the guarantee; and 
oany other potential adverse consequences for the guarantor arising under the 
guarantee from a failure to make a payment by the due date;
The assessment doesnt need to be identical to the one carried out on the 
borrower, but should be sufficient in depth and scope having regard to the 
potential obligations which might fall on the guarantor;
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
guarantor of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the guarantor could be required to make payments for an 
extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Amigo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs 
circumstances to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way? oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Amigo make a fair decision?
Did Amigo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show Amigo asked about Mr Cs financial circumstances, checked his 
credit file and, it says, it verified his income and checked his expenditure against statistical 
data. But Im not satisfied that these checks went far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 12 months and Amigo needed to ensure the repayments 
were sustainable over that period;
The repayments represented a significant proportion of Mr Cs declared income 
(34%);
Amigo did not verify the information provided about Mr Cs expenditure.
For the above reasons, I consider Amigos checks should have included a full review of 
Mr Cs financial circumstances, including further verification of his income and expenditure.
So, Ive had a look at Mr Cs bank statements to see what they showed as a reasonable 
proxy for what Amigo might have found out had it looked into Mr Cs finances in more depth:
The bank statements showed Mr C received around £1,350 from his job and a further 
£250 per month from a pension;
His regular expenditure (including rent, bills, insurance, travel and food) was around 
£800 per month;
Mr Cs bank account was usually around £2,000 in credit;
There was around £8,000 in a savings account.
Therefore, Im satisfied that had Amigo carried out better checks, its still likely to have found 
the repayments were affordable to Mr C and on that basis that he was a suitable guarantor 
for the loan.
Nevertheless, I have also considered Mr Cs points about the pre-existing loan for which he 
was also acting as guarantor for his son. I accept that Mr C could not afford repayments on 
both these loans, but I dont find that Amigo was wrong to accept Mr C as guarantor in this 
case. I say that because:
The previous loan to which Mr C refers was taken out just two days earlier;
I acknowledge that Amigo would have known guarantor loans do not tend to appear 
on credit files, but, if it had checked Mr Cs sons credit file, as Mr C suggests, I find it 
more likely than not that such a recent loan would not yet have been recorded;
Similarly, if Amigo had requested a recent bank statement from Mr C, it is likely to 
have received the one from 20 January 2019 to 19 February 2019, in which the 
earlier loan did not appear;
I accept what Mr C says about the fact that Amigo should have asked him a specific 
question about other guarantor loans, but, had it done so, I find it likely that Mr C 
would have repeated what he says he believed to be the situation at the time. That is, Mr C says he thought the earlier loan had been repaid and the Amigo loan was a 
replacement for it because it was slightly cheaper.
Finally, I have looked at the other cases which Mr C says were upheld in very similar 
circumstances. This service must consider each case on its own merits, so outcomes on 
other complaints will not affect my decision on this case. That said, I note that the other 
cases to which he refers occurred after the Amigo loan so, as these events were later, the 
circumstances would have been different.
So, although I accept Mr C might not have been able to afford repayments on the Amigo 
loan, in addition to the loan his son took out two days earlier, I do not find Amigo did 
anything wrong by approving Mr C as a guarantor based on the information it had, or should 
have had, at the time. In addition to which, Mr C had £8,000 in savings. I also dont find 
Amigo acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman