DRN-2307756
Complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy when they took a further advance on their joint mortgage 
in August 2002. 
The policy was a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), with a PPI element called 
Mortgage Repayment Cover. The TMPP included life and critical illness cover, but Ive only 
looked into the sale of PPI in this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H paid a monthly amount of £48.89 for the policy. The PPI covered Mr H only 
and would have paid a monthly benefit of £887.68 for up to 24 months per claim  if Mr H 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the policy was optional. And it had to get 
their consent before it added PPI to their account. Halifax says it would have done this. But 
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt know the policy was in place. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of 
sale documentation. And what Mr and Mrs H have said isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their complaint. So, Ive had to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Weve seen a number of examples of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used around the time 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy was sold. From what I know, usually, Halifax gave its customers an 
option to take out PPI and the mortgage agreement often highlighted that it wasnt necessary 
to take any insurance from Halifax. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H 
were aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the 
time. 
Mr and Mrs H cant remember whether they received any advice and Halifax hasnt been 
able to confirm this either. So, Halifax has treated the sale as though it did give advice and I 
think thats fair, because it puts more responsibility on Halifax. It means that as well as giving 
Mr and Mrs H enough information about the policy, Halifax also had to check it was suitable 
for them. So, Ive considered the case on the basis that advice was given and having done 
so, the policy appears to have been suitable for them. Although, Ive mainly focused on 
Mr Hs circumstances as he was the one covered by the PPI.
Mr H was eligible for the policy and he doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have made it harder for him to claim, such as having unusual employment 
circumstances. 
Mr H says he was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work. Hes also told us he would have been entitled to 
redundancy pay and had death in service cover through his employer. In addition to this, he 
says he had life and critical illness cover in place and could have relied on his family if he 
ever needed help. 
Having thought about what hes told us of his circumstances at the time of sale, I dont think 
this means that the policy wasnt right for him. The policy would have paid out in addition to 
Mr Hs employee benefits and potentially for a much longer period. And Mr H could have 
made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. The life and critical illness cover Mr H 
told us about provides a different type of protection to PPI, so this would not mean Halifaxs 
advice to take PPI was unsuitable. And while his family may have wanted to help, 
circumstances could change, which means help from family could not always be relied on. 
So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs H, particularly as Mr H was the 
main income earner.
I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H at the time 
it was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs H.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs H all of the other information they needed  I 
dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were made clear. But Mr and Mrs H chose to take out 
the cover when they didnt have to, so they seem to have wanted it.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr and Mrs Hs home. 
And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I 
think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs H and I dont think they lost out 
because of anything Halifax did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs H paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs H back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand Halifax already issued a cheque to Mr and Mrs H, but the cheque was returned. 
So, Halifax will need to rearrange Mr and Mrs Hs payment now Ive issued my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Hanna JohnsonOmbudsman