DRN-1081119
 
The complaint
Mr N complains about the valuation of his car by esure Insurance Limited following a claim 
against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I understand that in July 2019, Mr N had an accident whilst driving. esure said that his car 
was a total loss. It says it looked at four trade guides, which gave valuations of £7,075, 
£6,950, £6,760 and £6,585. It calculated an average of those four valuations and rounded it 
up to £6,850. It offered Mr N that amount in settlement of his claim, less the excess due 
under his policy.
Mr N didnt think that esures valuation was fair. He says that he bought the car for £10,000 
around nine months before the accident. Mr N says that his car had low mileage, leather 
seats, decal extras and was a sought after colour. 
Mr N also complained about esures communication with him. The investigator explained 
that as esure hadnt had an opportunity to address those concerns, he couldnt look at that 
part of Mr Ns complaint. 
The investigators looked at what had happened in relation to the valuation of Mr Ns car. He 
thought that esures valuation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he couldnt buy a replacement car with 
£6,850. Mr N said that he told esure what he thought his car was worth when he took out the 
policy.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In common with most other motor insurance policies, Mr Ns policy with esure says that it 
may decide to pay to settle a claim  rather than repair or replace the car  and it wont pay 
more than the market value of the car at the time of the loss, less the excess payable under 
the policy. Market value is defined as:
 
 
 the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of 
the same make and model and of similar age, condition and mileage at the time of the 
accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides including Glasss, 
Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
Our role isnt to provide an exact valuation of Mr Ns car but to decide whether esures offer 
was fair and reasonable. In doing so, I pay particular attention to the various trade guides 
used for valuing vehicles, as well as other evidence provided by the parties. Other evidence 
might include advertisements for the sale of similar cars although I place less weight on 
advertisements than on trade guides, as cars dont normally sell for the price at which they 
are advertised and differences between Mr Ns car and an advertised car may affect values. 
We find that trade guides give a fair indication of market value, as they are based on 
nationwide research of likely sales figures, rather than advertised sales prices, so I think that 
they are both persuasive and appropriate here. 
The values from the trade guides for a car of the same make, model and mileage as Mr Ns 
car are £7,486, £6,950 and £6,760. One of those valuations differs slightly from the 
valuations esure carried out but I dont think that changes the outcome here. One of the 
trade guides doesnt provide historical valuations, so I cant redo the fourth valuation at this 
point. Id expect esures offer to Mr N to be within the range of the valuations it looked at, 
which it was. 
Mr N says that he told esure his view of the value of the car when he took out his policy. But 
Ive seen from his insurance schedule at renewal that esure recorded the cars value as 
market value. In any event, neither the price Mr N paid when he bought the car nor his view 
of its value determines what esure should pay following a total loss. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but I dont think that esure has treated him unfairly here. I think 
that both the method esure used to asses the market value and its offer to Mr N was fair and 
reasonable. So, I dont require it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman