DRN-3085903
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her savings account without telling her 
and gave her account details to another person.
What happened
Mrs K set up a standing order to pay £25 each month from her account with another bank 
into her Barclays account. She checked her account in June 2021 and realised there was an 
issue. Mrs K raised a complaint with Barclays and found her account had been closed in 
2012 and the account details given to another person in 2018. She says she wasnt told her 
account had been closed. She tried to have the payments recalled but this was 
unsuccessful. She wants her payments refunded by Barclays.
Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. It said the savings account Mrs K was paying the 
standing order to was closed in December 2012. It said a closing statement was sent but 
because of the time that had passed it didnt have any further details as to why the account 
was closed. It explained that all accounts remain closed for six years after which account 
details can be recycled. It said while the account was closed Mrs Ks £25 payments were 
returned to the account she made the payments from. However, in 2018 the account details 
became active again and as Mrs Ks standing order was still in place her payments from late 
2018 had been received into the account which now had a new owner. It contacted the new 
owner in an attempt to recover the money, but it didnt get a response. Because of this it said 
it was unable to return the £825 of payments to Mrs K. 
Our investigator noted the timescales involved in the issues Mrs K had raised and said she 
could look at payments from 12 July 2015. She said that the payments made between 12 
July 2015 and 30 August 2018, were returned to Mrs Ks account due to the Barclays 
account being closed. She thought the returned payments would have alerted Mrs K to the 
issue with her standing order. The Barclays account details were then recycled which she 
didnt think was unreasonable. As Mrs Ks standing order was still being paid, the money 
went into the account that now had a new owner. Our investigator thought that Barclays had 
done enough by contacting the new owner of the account to try to recall the payments. 
Based on this she didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that Barclays closed her account 
without notifying her or asking her permission and gave her bank details to another person. 
She said she hadnt been told to stop sending her standing order to the account and the new 
account owner had been receiving her money. She said Barclays needed to retrieve her 
money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about the payments Mrs K made to her Barclays saving account from July 
2015 onwards. 
Mrs K set up a standing order to make regular payments into her Barclays savings account. I 
can see in the months up to the account closure in December 2012, Mrs K was making 
monthly payments of £25 into the account which she was then either transferring out or 
withdrawing. In December 2012 the savings account was closed, and Barclays has provided 
a copy of the closing statement. I note Mrs Ks comments about her not being aware that the 
account had been closed but the statement does state the account was closed. As the 
account closure happened more than six years before Mrs K raised her complaint this 
doesnt form part of this decision instead I am considering the payments made from July 
2015.
The Barclays account remained closed until late 2018 and Mrs K continued to make the 
regular payments of £25 during this period. These payments were returned to the account 
they were sent from. It is Mrs Ks responsibility to monitor her accounts and I think it 
reasonable that she would have noticed the payments being returned during this period. Had 
this been raised at the time with Barclays then the issue could have been resolved without 
any loss to her.
In late 2018 the account details were reallocated. As the account was now active (with a new 
owner) and Mrs K continued to make the payments, these were received by the new account 
owner. This has clearly been upsetting for Mrs K as she has paid £825 to a person she 
doesnt know. However, for me to uphold the complaint I would need to be able to say 
Barclays had done something wrong.
Barclays is allowed to reallocate account details after a period of time and so I cannot say 
that it did anything wrong by reallocating Mrs Ks savings account details in late 2018. When 
Barclays became aware of the issue, we would expect it to try to recover the funds. In this 
case, Barclays wrote to the new owner of the account about the funds that had been sent in 
error. It asked for them to make contact. However, as this didnt happen it was unable to 
debit the funds from the account. 
Based on the above, I do not find that Barclays did anything wrong in this case and it took 
the actions we would have expected to try to recover the money for Mrs K. Therefore, I do 
not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman