DRN-3194940
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994. Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold him PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
BoS had to make it clear to Mr P that he didnt have to take out the PPI. 
BoS no longer has any of the paperwork from the time of the sale. And this isnt 
surprising  the sale happened in the 1990s and the mortgage account ended in 2003. 
So I accept that I dont know how PPI was introduced to Mr P. 
But Mr P hasnt said much about what happened either. So given the limited evidence 
about an event, which happened over 20 years ago, I cant now fairly say that its more 
likely BoS mispresented the policy as being a condition of the mortgage or that it didnt 
get Mr Ps explicit agreement to take it out.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr P because it was a branch sale. This means 
BoS had to check that the PPI was right for Mr P. And the evidence about Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. For example Mr P was eligible for the cover and although its likely he 
was entitled to some sick pay, which he couldve used to make the payments on his 
mortgage if he wasnt working, he doesnt appear to have had any cash savings to fall 
back on. Its also the case that the policy would have paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim and it was ultimately helping to protect his home - so I think he still had a need for 
cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Ps employment or occupation, which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr P says he had a couple of medical conditions some 
time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have 
recommended it. I say this because the policy exclusion was limited to those things Mr P 
knew about or had sought advice or treatment for in the 12 months prior to taking out PPI 
and which recurred within 24 months of the policy starting. So given Mr P told us his 
conditions happened many years before the sale (he also said in any event they didnt 
affect his ability to work) I dont think the policy was unsuitable for him. Id add here that 
BoS internal records show that Mr P answered No to having any medical conditions at 
the time, which would suggest to all intents and purposes Mr P regarded himself as 
being in good health at the time of the sale.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr P as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information I think he 
was likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr P would have 
declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ps circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr P would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ps particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman