DRN-2781339
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) didnt intervene when Mrs R made a large 
transfer in branch. Mr R brings this complaint in his capacity as the executor of Mrs Rs 
estate.
What happened
In August 2019, after Mrs R had sadly passed away, Mr R complained to TSB that in 
March 2017, it had allowed Mrs R to transfer £7,200 from her TSB account to a third partys 
account held with another UK bank. They said Mrs R was vulnerable due to her age and ill 
health and TSB shouldve intervened. Had it done so, they feel it wouldve uncovered she 
was being coerced into transferring the money to a neighbour and the transfer wouldve 
been prevented.
TSB responded to the complaint and said it had processes in place to identify vulnerable 
customers and intervene where appropriate. It said there were no notes made at the time 
that suggest there were concerns about Mrs Rs vulnerability. It also said the money 
appeared to have been loaned to a neighbour with Mrs Rs consent so the matter was a civil 
dispute rather than a scam it couldve prevented. 
Mr R didnt accept this and brought the complaint to our service to consider. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. They were satisfied TSB had measures in place at the time to 
identify and intervene when a customer was vulnerable. And based on what theyd seen they 
thought that if TSB had questioned her, Mrs Rs answers wouldnt likely have given it cause 
for concern such that it shouldve refused to process the transfer.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. They felt there was no evidence TSB had 
taken steps to protect a vulnerable person. Mrs R was over 85, was visiting the branch for 
the first time in years and was transferring over half her balance which shouldve been a 
clear warning sign. They also said they werent aware of any obligation to make the bank 
aware of someones state of health. As they didnt accept the investigators findings, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year and said that:
I thought TSB reasonably ought to have had measures in place to look out for 
indications its customer might be at risk of financial harm. And where unusual 
transactions were identified I thought it ought to do additional checks or refuse to 
carry out an instruction altogether to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm.
In Mrs Rs case I thought it was likely she wouldve appeared vulnerable in branch 
and I thought the payment she was making was significantly unusual enough it ought 
reasonably to have prompted intervention from staff in branch. So I thought TSB 
ought to have asked more about the payment to find out who it was to and what it 
was for. As no such conversation had been recorded by TSB I thought it was likely 
this hadnt happened.
Had she been asked I couldnt see any reason Mrs R wouldnt have told TSB she 
was lending the money to her neighbour so their daughter could buy a car and I 
thought on the face of it this would reasonably have caused some concern. But Id 
also seen Mrs Rs doctor had recorded shed said she had a good relationship with 
her neighbour who helped her with her shopping and took her out sometimes. And I 
couldnt see any reason she wouldnt have told TSB this if asked. 
As no one (Mrs R, a family member or close friend, or a professional) had alerted 
TSB to any concerns about her vulnerability or circumstances and no additional 
protection such as power of attorney was in place, I felt it could only reasonably rely 
on what it saw and was told in branch that day. I didnt think Mrs Rs answers would 
likely have given TSB reasonable concerns she was the victim of financial coercion.
Id seen evidence that since discovering the money had been lent to the neighbour, 
Mr R had entered into an agreement with them for its repayment. So they didnt 
appear to dispute the money had been lent to them and seemed to have agreed to 
repay it. Overall I didnt think there was sufficient evidence to suggest Mrs R had 
been coerced into lending the money and I thought the matter was more likely a civil 
dispute between the estate and the borrower.
TSB didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr R responded and didnt accept my 
findings. In response to the provisional decision he said:
The only reason the loan was uncovered was because of his intervention so TSB had 
failed to uncover it as it shouldve. 
As I had found TSB had failed in its duty of care to Mrs R, it should be liable for the 
loss. 
If he hadnt been so open and transparent with the entire position he felt I wouldve 
been forced to deal with what he saw as the core of the problem  that TSB ought to 
have intervened and didnt. 
Hed taken steps to pursue the borrower legally for the return of the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr R has said in response to the provisional decision. 
But, overall, Im not persuaded to change my mind. I wont repeat everything I said in my 
provisional decision (and have summarised above) but I wanted to address his ongoing 
concerns.
I agree with Mr Rs suggestion that TSB didnt act as I wouldve expected as it likely did fail 
to question Mrs R about the transfer she made. But for the reasons Ive already given, I think 
its likely that even if it had intervened, TSB wouldnt have had reasonable cause to refuse to 
carry out Mrs Rs instruction. So the payment still wouldve been made and the current 
situation would likely still be the same. For this reason I dont think TSB is liable for any loss.
Id also add that I dont think a loss has been demonstrated in this case as the estate 
appears to have the right to pursue the return of the money directly and has entered into a repayment agreement with the borrower. I dont think it would be fair to hold TSB liable just 
because the borrower hasnt returned the money as expected and the estate has taken 
steps to pursue the matter legally.
While Ive noted Mr Rs comments that hes been open and transparent in providing 
additional information, when considering a complaint we expect both parties to be open and 
transparent with the information they provide. Im satisfied Mr R has been given ample time 
to provide any additional evidence or information he wanted our service to consider. And my 
role has then been to consider the information provided in a balanced and impartial way  I 
believe I have done so.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman