DRN-3358038
The complaint
Mrs R complains that, in September 2003 and May 2007, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account (PBA). 
What happened
Mrs R had had a bank account with Lloyds since at least September 2001  this was fee 
free. Over the following years, between September 2003 and November 2016, the account 
was upgraded to a fee-paying account and then downgraded to a fee free account, four 
different times. 
Im looking at the upgrades that happened in September 2003 and May 2007. On both 
occasions the account was upgraded from a fee-free account to a Select PBA. 
The Select account cost £5 each month in 2003, and £7 each month in 2007. Its main 
benefits were AA breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and Sentinel card protection. 
There was also a £50 interest-free overdraft (if the overdraft was approved). 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs R didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R has told us that, in taking the PBAs, she hadnt understood what they were and had 
just followed the advice of the bank. Ive considered these points, and also generally 
looked at whether the PBA was mis-sold. 
I cant know what the bank said to Mrs R when it advised her to upgrade her accounts, 
and so I cant know how well it explained the important parts of the PBA each time. But it 
doesnt seem that the advice to take the PBA in 2003 and 2007 was unreasonable. And 
its likely that, even if Lloyds made the details clear to Mrs R, she still would have found 
the PBA useful. I say this because theres evidence she did have a need for the main 
benefits of breakdown cover and mobile phone cover. 
I think its likely Lloyds would have explained that cost to her.  The decision, on whether 
these benefits were worth the monthly fee, would have been up to Mrs R. 
So, overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to say the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman