DRN-2556655
The complaint
Mrs K complains HSBC unfairly turned down her income protection claim.  
What happened
Mrs K holds an income protection policy with HSBC UK Bank Plc. The policy has a 13 week 
deferred period, after which it would pay a monthly benefit, in the event of a successful 
claim. 
At the end of October 2017, Mrs K became unwell and stopped working as a dental nurse. 
And she made a claim against her income protection policy. 
Mrs Ks policy defines incapacity as follows. 
Incapacity / incapacitated means that, as the result of illness or injury, the life insured is 
unable to perform the material and substantial duties of the occupation being followed at the 
time of the illness or injury, and is not following any other occupation.
And the policy defines deferred period as a continuous period of incapacity.
So to make a successful claim, Mrs K needed to evidence she was incapacitated throughout 
the 13 week period from when she became absent from work on 30 October 2017. And if 
successful, HSBC would be liable to pay a claim from November 2018 onwards  which is 
after another policy Mrs K held stopped paying benefits. 
HSBC originally declined the claim in February 2018. It said the medical evidence itd seen 
didnt demonstrate that Mrs K was incapacitated. And it said there was mention of her being 
able to return to work during the deferred period in her medical records. 
Mrs K complained to HSBC, and it issued a response in April 2018, maintaining its decision 
to decline her claim. 
In June 2018, HSBC was made aware of another income protection policy Mrs K had in 
place. This paid her a benefit for 12 months, and due to the terms of Mrs Ks policy with 
HSBC, she was ineligible to make a claim until the benefits from that policy ended. Mrs K re-
submitted her claim to HSBC in January 2019. And provided up to date medical reports. 
HSBC said itd reviewed Mrs Ks case again, but the new evidence indicated improvements 
in her condition and showed her symptoms were responding to treatment. It said it hadnt 
seen sufficient evidence that Mrs Ks symptoms would prevent her from carrying out her 
occupation, and maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Following HSBCs response to her complaint in April 2019, Mrs K submitted further 
evidence. Again HSBC agreed to consider this, but said the evidence hadnt changed its 
position.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mrs K brought her complaint to this service.
The case was originally reviewed by an investigator, who thought HSBC had unfairly 
declined the claim. In response, HSBC disagreed, and said it would like the opportunity to 
arrange for an IME to be carried out by an occupational health physician (OHP). 
The case was passed to me to decide. And I thought the medical evidence didnt support 
Mrs K having met the policy definition of incapacity during the deferred period. So I issued a 
provisional decision. 
My provisional decision 
In summary I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say HSBC has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
I didnt think it was unreasonable that HSBC declined Mrs Ks claim in February 2018, based 
on the medical evidence available at the time. I said this because in November 2017, Mrs 
Ks medical records stated her symptoms of chest pains were easing with medication. And in 
January 2018, a specialist had said her shortness of breath had improved slightly with 
medication. Also, Mrs Ks GP referred to an abscess which she had been treated for in 
January 2018, and said Mrs K could return to work once this had healed. 
After Mrs K resubmitted her claim with further evidence in December 2018, HSBC 
maintained the claim should be declined. I didnt think this was an unfair conclusion, as the 
further reports offered information about Mrs Ks condition and symptoms at the time, and 
didnt provide additional insight into her functional capacity during the deferred period. 
HSBC agreed to review new evidence Mrs K provided. It referred the evidence to its CMO, 
and put further questions to one of Mrs Ks specialists. I thought this showed HSBC acted 
fairly in its assessment of the claim. And I hadnt seen that it caused unnecessary delays.
I carefully reviewed the further reports Mrs K provided in 2019, including those from her 
treating specialists, and their responses to HSBCs questions. This evidence largely related 
to Mrs Ks contemporary condition. There was a comment from one of the specialists in 
September 2019 which states Mrs K is very limited by shortness of breath on exertion and 
said her symptoms had started two years prior. This would encompass the deferred period. 
However, I still wasnt persuaded this sufficiently demonstrated Mrs K was unable to perform 
the material and substantial duties of her occupation during the deferred period, as is 
required by her policy. And because of this, I was satisfied HSBC hadnt acted unfairly. 
I thought about whether HSBC should have effectively considered delaying the start of the 
deferred period. However I didnt think this would have made a difference. Firstly because 
the medical reports referenced improvements in Mrs Ks symptoms during the first half of 
2018, and also because I was aware Mrs Ks employment was terminated in June 2018. 
HSBC has said it would like the opportunity to instruct an IME with an OHP and I thought this 
was reasonable. However I said both parties should be aware that the OHP may find it 
difficult to comment on Mrs Ks functional capacity during her policys deferred period, due to 
the time that has passed. I said it may be helpful if the IME is focussed on a review of Mrs 
Ks medical history, limited to the deferred period of her policy. Following the outcome of the 
IME and further review of the claim by HSBC, if Mrs K is still dissatisfied, she would be able 
to make a new complaint to HSBC about its decision. Responses to my provisional decision 
HSBC responded to my provisional decision. It said it agreed with my assessment of its 
actions, but was surprised by my recommendation for a further IME. It said it had offered this 
only because our investigator had originally upheld the complaint. And it said it wanted 
clarification on my recommendation. 
Mrs K also responded to my provisional decision. She provided copies of letters from her 
treating doctors, as well as medical certificates and a letter from her employer. In summary 
she said: 
she had been suffering with chest pains and shortness of breath since August 2017, 
and was admitted to hospital via ambulance on 30 October;
she has continued to suffer with her symptoms and has been unable to work since 
that time; 
she thinks there has been confusion around her ability to return to work in early 2018 
 she said the statement made about her return was made in relation to an abscess, 
and not her respiratory symptoms; and
she has no objection to a further IME taking place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive also considered again my provisional findings, in light of the responses.
 
The majority of the information Mrs K provided is evidence Id already seen and considered. 
However she also provided a new letter from her GP, Dr G, which was written in February 
2021. 
Dr G said Mrs K was continuing to suffer from shortness of breath and chest pain which had 
first started in September 2017. And she said her symptoms had been continuous and 
progressive since then. She also said investigations into the cause of her symptoms were 
still ongoing. And she said that the medical certificate issued in February 2018 related to 
ongoing chest pain symptoms and an abscess which she suffered with at that time. 
Having reviewed this letter, I dont think it provides any further insight into Mrs Ks capacity 
during the policy deferred period, beyond what Id already seen. So I dont think it makes a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint.
Mrs K has said the reference in February 2018 to her being able to return to work, related to 
her abscess condition only, and not to her respiratory issues. So Ive considered this, and 
reviewed the evidence again. 
The letter from Dr G to HSBC in February 2018 said Once the wound has healed she would 
be able to return to her work as a dental nurse. Dr G referred to a treatment plan relating to 
the abscess, and said I am unable to predict with any accuracy when [Mrs K] will be able to 
return to work but I hope she will be able to return in 6-8 weeks. 
Dr Gs recent letter in February this year said the medical certificate issued in February 2018 
related to both the abscess and chest pains. But she didnt say that her above statement 
around Mrs Ks ability to return to work was incorrect, or that it related only to the abscess condition. And because of this, Im still not persuaded that the evidence supports Mrs Ks 
incapacity during the deferred period. 
HSBC previously said it wanted the opportunity to carry out an IME with an OHP, and as I 
said in my provisional decision, I thought this was reasonable. I didnt think HSBC had acted 
unfairly in declining the claim overall. But, I also acknowledged a lot of medical evidence had 
been provided, so I thought the offer HSBC made of a review by an OHP was reasonable. I 
thought it would be fair for this evidence to be considered independently and in more detail, 
by an appropriately qualified expert.
HSBC has questioned the purpose and remit of that review. And as I explained, I suggested 
that this focus on Mrs Ks medical history relating specifically to the deferred period of the 
policy. Im aware that this may not produce a different outcome. However, as HSBC made 
this offer and Mrs K has accepted it, I think its a reasonable outcome in this case. 
The points HSBC and Mrs K raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should instruct an independent medical exam with an occupational health 
physician, to further assess Mrs Ks incapacity during the deferred period.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman