DRN-2353640
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a theft claim made 
on his motor insurance policy and that it declined his claim. He wants the claim to be paid 
and charges waived.
What happened
Mr Cs car was stolen from outside his house and he contacted Admiral two days later to 
report this. The car was later recovered damaged. Admiral inspected the car and its key, and 
it interviewed Mr C three times. Admiral then declined the claim as it said Mr C had misled it 
about the theft circumstances. Mr C was unhappy with this decision and that it had taken 
Admiral so long to reach it. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available before making 
its decision. He thought it had reasonably decided that the car had been stolen using its key 
and that there were significant discrepancies between Mr Cs statements. He thought the 
time it had taken to make its decision was reasonable.
Mr C replied asking for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C is disappointed with Admirals decision. Hes explained the 
severe consequences this will have for him and that he feels unfairly treated. Our approach 
in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Admiral relied on two policy terms and conditions to decline Mr Cs claim and cancel his 
policy:
General Condition 9: Fraud 
If you or anyone acting for you recklessly or deliberately misrepresents information at any 
time during the policy that would impact either the terms and conditions or our ability to offer 
cover itself, your policy will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to recover any costs we 
have incurred and will not return any premium. 
We will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if you or anyone 
acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false way, or where we have been given a 
false statement, or any documents which are false or stolen. Your policy  will be cancelled 
or voided. We will seek to recover any costs that have been incurred and will not return any 
premium. 
General Condition 3: Care of your vehicle 
You or any person covered by the policy must: 
 remove the keys or secure any device that allows access to your vehicle; if it is left 
unoccupied 
I think these are common conditions in motor insurance policies, and I dont find them 
unusual or unreasonable. And I think they are clearly enough set out in the policy wording so 
as to be drawn to the consumers attention. And so I think its reasonable for Admiral to rely 
on these conditions to decline a claim.
When Mr C first notified the police and Admiral of the theft, he explained that there was glass 
near where the car had been parked and that he had the only key. He said the other key had 
been lost some years previously. So Admiral thought the car had been accessed by 
breaking a window and then stolen by keyless theft. 
The car was then recovered, and Admiral had the car inspected. It said there was a broken 
window. But there was no sign of theft-related damage to the ignition or the steering column. 
The ECU showed that only two keys had been coded to the car. So Admiral thought one of 
the cars keys must have been used to take the car. 
I can see that Admiral then checked with Mr C who may have had access to the cars one 
key. And he explained that it was kept locked in his room and no one could have access to 
it. But as the key must have been used to take the car, Admiral thought Mr C had misled it 
about the circumstances of the theft. 
Mr C asked why there had been no investigation of items found in the cars boot. He said 
hed never seen them before. But, as our investigator explained, that would be a police 
matter. And I dont think it affected Admirals decision about the claim. 
So I think Admiral reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available 
before making its decision. I think it was then entitled to apply the conditions of the policy 
related to fraud and care of keys. And I think it was then entitled to decline the claim, cancel 
the policy, retain the premiums and recover its costs from Mr C. So I cant say that it has 
treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr C was concerned about the length of time Admiral took to come to this decision. But I 
think it reasonably progressed his claim when he first reported the theft. When the car was 
recovered, I think it reasonably had it inspected to validate the claim. And then, because it 
had concerns about the theft circumstances, I think it was reasonable for it to instruct an 
independent investigator to interview Mr C.
I can see that Admiral kept Mr C reasonably informed about the claim. And I think four 
months isnt an unusual or unreasonable time to come to a decision about a theft claim. So I 
cant say that Admiral did anything wrong in this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman