DRN-2457529
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Santander UK Plc transferred his credit card debt to a debt 
collection company without telling him. Hes also unhappy that a default has been recorded 
with credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr F held a credit card account with Santander.
 
In June 2020, he received a letter from a debt management company to say that theyd 
taken over the management of his debt with Santander. Mr F then contacted Santander to 
ask why the debt had been transferred. They said that a default notice had been sent to him 
although he said that this wasnt received. They also said that a letter had been sent to say 
that the debt was being transferred. Mr F claimed that this hadnt been received either.
 
Mr F decided to raise a complaint with Santander. Santander confirmed that the address 
they held was still correct. They explained that they couldnt see any errors and, therefore, 
didnt agree with Mr Fs complaint.
 
Mr F was unhappy with the outcome and decided to refer the matter to this service. One of 
our investigators has looked into his complaint. He didnt agree that Santander had made a 
mistake here. Mr F was unhappy with the outcome and stressed again that he hadnt 
received either a default notice or a letter informing him of the transfer to a debt 
management company. He has asked for his case be referred to an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
Santander have since said that although it is normal to issue a letter to advise of the transfer, 
one wasnt issued on this occasion. They were unable to explain why. The complaint has 
now been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Santander were willing to discuss Mr Fs situation with him and see what they 
could do to help with his financial difficulties. For example, since 2018, Santander have been 
willing to agree breathing space when Mr F needed it, suspend interest and charges to help 
him and signpost him to appropriate organisations that might be able to help him.
In December 2019, Santander called Mr F for an update. He told them that hed received 
debt advice to agree token payment arrangements for his debts. However, he was unable to 
speak fully at the time of the call. He agreed to prepare details of his income and 
expenditure for a further call the following day. I cant see any record of this call taking place 
until early in January 2020 when an in-depth review of Mr Fs income and expenditure was 
completed. This showed a small shortfall in Mr Fs income against his outgoings. Mr F 
agreed to call Santander back after hed agreed arrangements for two other debts.
Mr F called Santander back three days later. It was clear that there was no surplus income 
to meet repayments. Santander continued to look for solutions clearly explaining the options 
and what could happen if nothing could be agreed or if small payments werent made at all. 
Overall, I think that Santander have tried to be as reasonable and supportive as they can be 
here, by working with Mr F to come to an agreement and avoid further steps to recover the 
debt.
 
Santander have provided copies of Mr Fs credit card statements for the period November 
2019 to April 2020. I can see that Santander continued to refund charges and interest. I also 
see that only two payments were received from Mr F. One for £1.00 in November and 
another for £5.00 in January. No other payments were received. Theres also no record of 
any further discussions between Mr F and Santander, despite the previous conversations.
In February 2020, Santander sent a default notice to Mr F. Ive looked at this and it shows 
details of the arrears on the account and says that this should be paid within 14 days. It also 
says that if you fail to make the payment, well demand you repay the total balance 
immediately. We may also take legal action against you or refer your account to debt 
recovery agents. Given that Santander hadnt received any further contact or satisfactory 
proposals from Mr F, I dont think this is an unexpected or unreasonable step by them.
 
Although I appreciate that Mr F says that he didnt receive this notice, Santanders records 
show that it was sent to his usual address. I understand Mr Fs frustration, but Santander 
have shown confirmation that it was sent, and I cant hold them responsible if the postal 
service failed to deliver the notice. Particularly when all other letters and statements appear 
to have been delivered successfully.
In March 2020, Santander sent a further letter to Mr F advising that they planned to inform 
credit reference agencies of the default if the arrears werent cleared or a repayment plan 
agreed within 28 days. This letter also provided contact details for free help and advice from 
debt support organisations. This is normal practice among lenders, and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Santander to have sent this here. In any situation where a debt has been 
defaulted, it is the lenders responsibility to ensure that credit reference information 
accurately reflects the situation.
In June 2020, Mr F received a letter from a debt management company to advise that they 
had taken over the management of his account. This was also sent to the same address as 
all the other letters and was received by Mr F.
 
Santander have since confirmed that it is their usual practice to send a further letter advising 
of the transfer to a debt management company. On this occasion though, it wasnt sent. 
Theyve been unable to explain why this didnt happen. Although this isnt ideal, I dont think 
it means that Santander should remove the default or take the debt back from the collection 
agent. Ultimately it was entitled to do this based on Mr Fs financial position, the situation 
with the account and the lack of contact from him.
While receiving the letter from the debt collection agent may have been upsetting without a 
further explanation from Santander, it was also set against the context of Santander 
explaining what could happen if payments werent made.
 
There is a history of late payments and discussions between Santander and Mr F. 
Santander have tried to be supportive of his situation. Theyve regularly waived or refunded 
interest and charges. They explained clearly what they needed and also what might happen if payments werent made or an agreement wasnt reached. They suggested organisations 
who may be able to provide support and guidance for Mr F. These are steps Id expect a 
lender to take in these circumstances. I dont believe that Santander couldve done anything 
more here. Ultimately, Mr F wasnt able to manage the account and Santander took further 
action to recover the debt. They were entitled to do that and, while they may not have sent 
one letter  Im satisfied they sent others and that Mr F should have been aware that they 
could take further steps to recover the debt.
While I understand how disappointed Mr F is, for the reasons set out above Im unable to 
find that Santander made an error in transferring his credit card debt to a debt management 
company. I also cant find that Santander was wrong to provide the default information to 
credit reference agencies and so Im unable to uphold his complaint
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman