DRN-1963952
The complaint
Mr J complains that British Gas Services Limited failed to service his boiler within the 
timescales agreed in his insurance contract. 
What happened
Mr J had a Homecare agreement with British Gas which he renewed annually. As part of this 
policy British Gas agreed to undertake an annual boiler service. In 2018 Mr J had his boiler 
serviced in September, so he tried to book his 2019 appointment for around the same time. 
But when he tried to book this, the earliest British Gas could offer him an appointment was 
November  outside of his policy year. Mr J booked the appointment but the day before 
British Gas cancelled. And the earliest it could reschedule this for was February 2020.
 
Mr J didnt think this was fair, so he complained to British Gas. British Gas offered Mr J £20 
for the inconvenience of rescheduling his boiler service. But said that the terms and 
conditions of his policy said British Gas can reschedule services due to a high volume of 
breakdowns and emergencies. British Gas also noted it had agreed to offer an additional 
service within the next contractual year to ensure he didnt miss out.
 
Mr J remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld 
his complaint and asked British Gas to refund the cost of the service at £65, in addition to 
the £20 British Gas had already offered to pay.
British Gas disagreed, so the matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware two similar complaints that have been brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service have been highlighted by British Gas and our investigator  one was upheld and the 
other wasnt. But my decision is based purely on the particular circumstances of Mr Js 
complaint.
Mr Js policy states that in periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as 
cold weather), we prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service. 
British Gas has advised that this was the reason for needing to reschedule Mr Js first 
appointment, as demand was high in the winter months. The fact British Gas needed to 
reschedule does not seem unreasonable to me.
 
The policy also says your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your 
last service visit. So, I dont think the fact Mr Js service took place over a year later is 
necessarily unfair. But this isnt the crux of Mr Js complaint. His complaint is that the service 
took place months after he tried to schedule it and way outside his contractual period. 
So, it seems to me that the main issue is whether this delay was reasonable. The policy 
terms and conditions state that British Gas will carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled 
to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes that impossible  in 
which case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can 
visit. 
British Gas clearly notified Mr J and rescheduled his appointment. So, it acted in line with the 
terms and conditions here. But the appointment was rebooked for February 2020  5-6 
months after Mr J tried to book an appointment, and months after the end of his contract. 
I fully appreciate that winter is the busiest time for British Gas and that demand in this 
season is higher. This will lead to circumstances where appointments have to be 
rescheduled. But I dont think this was a reasonable timeframe. I say this keeping in mind 
that higher winter demand is to some extent predictable. And I think the appointment was so 
far outside of the policy year, that this was unfair. 
Ive then thought about how to put things right. Mr Js boiler service was part of an overall 
contract with British Gas. And although significantly delayed, Mr J has now received his 
service. British Gas has also assured him that hell also receive a further service within his 
2019/2020 contractual period. And on this basis, I dont think hes lost out financially. But I 
do think this has caused Mr J some trouble and upset. Im aware British Gas has offered to 
pay Mr J £20 for the inconvenience of cancelling the November 2019 appointment. But I 
think British Gas should pay Mr J an additional £45 to take into account the frustration 
caused by the extended delay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint.
 
Im aware British Gas Services Limited has already offered to pay Mr J £20 compensation 
and still provide Mr J with a boiler service within his 2019/2020 contractual period. I direct 
British Gas Services Limited to do this, if it hasnt already done so. I also direct British Gas 
Services Limited to pay Mr J an additional £45 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the unreasonable delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman