DRN-2613299
The complaint
Mrs and Mr V are unhappy with Metro Bank PLCs decision to not refund them after they fell 
victim to a scam. They lost £7,000 when trying to buy a motorhome online.
Mrs V was most involved in the attempted purchase, the conversations with the bank that 
followed, and contact with this service regarding the complaint. And so Ill mostly refer to her 
throughout my decision.  
What happened
Mrs and Mr V were looking to buy a motorhome in July 2019. They wanted one for their 
retirement and so they could maximise the use of Mrs Vs small pension pot.
They found a motorhome they liked the look of on an online auction site Ill call E. It was a 
six-berth motorhome with an advertised price of £7,000, which suited their needs and 
budget. They reached out to the seller to make some enquiries. There were some emails 
exchanged around the condition of the motorhome and some extra photos were provided by 
the seller.
Mrs and Mr V initially intended to collect the motorhome, but the seller offered to have it 
delivered at no extra cost. And as they lived so far away from the sellers location, they 
accepted the offer.
The seller explained that theyd send an invoice through E and that, once paid, the money 
would be in a holding account until Mrs and Mr V confirmed they were happy with the 
motorhome. Mrs V submitted the bid online, which was accepted by the seller.
Mrs V then received an invoice as expected. It came from an email address that wasnt 
linked to E or the payment institution (Ill refer to a P) quoted within the email. Mrs V had 
some questions about the invoice and so phoned E and P to ask about it. Mrs V has said 
that both companies were unhelpful and couldnt explain what the invoice was. She then 
noticed there was a live chat link for P within the email. She clicked on it and engaged in a 
chat which seemed legitimate. She asked about the invoice and the person she was chatting 
with was able to confirm the purchase, provide photos of the motorhome, and said the 
money would be held until Mrs V told it she satisfied with the purchase. But Mrs V was, in 
fact, chatting to the scammer. Mrs V believed she was genuinely talking to P and was happy 
to proceed after.
Mrs V followed the instructions for payment set out in the invoice email. She made a transfer 
using her online banking sending £2,500 to start with, followed by another £4,500.
The second payment was flagged by the bank for a fraud check. Mrs V spoke with an 
advisor and they went through some of the details of the purchase. The conversation 
included a discussion around the payment by way of a holding account and the source of the 
invoice. The advisor talked Mrs V through some of the scam risks the bank was aware of in 
relation to vehicle purchase scams. But Mrs V believed the transaction to be genuine and 
said she was going to carry out an extended HPI check, including a check of the VIN, once 
shed received a copy of the logbook. The payment was allowed to go through.
Mrs V contacted the seller again once the payments had been made, to ask for the copy of 
the logbook and said she was carrying out an HPI check ..for our own peace of mind. The 
seller said hed send a copy of the logbook and said the HPI was clear. But when Mrs V 
received the information she noticed that some of the details didnt match. She tried to 
contact the seller but received no further contact. She then contacted Metro to report that 
shed been the victim of a scam.
Metro contacted the receiving bank to see if any funds could be recovered. But only £162.29 
remained and was all that could be recovered.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
The bank recognised that it could have done more to protect Mrs and Mr V when the first 
payment was being made. It said it could have provided better warnings about scams and, 
as it hadnt, it would refund half of the first payment. 
It said it wouldnt refund the other half as it didnt believe Mrs V had done enough to verify 
the legitimacy of the purchase.
Metro said it wouldnt refund any of the second payment as it had spoken to Mrs V and 
discussed the purchase. It felt it had done enough to warn about the risk of scams and so 
didnt believe any refund was due. That was in addition to its reasoning around the lack of 
checks on Mrs and Mr Vs part.
Mrs and Mr V were unhappy with the banks answer and so brought their complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think the 
banks warnings went far enough or clearly explained the risks  or how to avoid them  
involved in buying a motorhome online.
The investigator also thought Mrs and Mr V had a reasonable basis for believing they were 
engaged in a legitimate purchase. She noted the tricks employed by the fraudster and how 
convincing the advert had been, particularly as it had been posted on a well-known auction 
website. And so she recommended Mrs and Mr V ought to be refunded in full, for both 
payments. 
Metro didnt agree with the investigators recommendations and so the case was passed to 
me for review. I agreed with the investigators findings around the warnings given by the 
bank on the phone call it had with Mrs V. But I disagreed on the reasonable basis for belief 
aspect. And so I said that I intended to find that the bank needed to refund half of the second 
payment, but no more.
The bank raised no further objections but also made no further offer to settle the complaint. 
Mrs V did not agree with my findings. She felt the banks failure to provide an effective 
warning ought to mean it bears full responsibility for the loss. 
Mrs V also reiterated how genuine the purchase had seemed and that she had no doubts in 
mind when making the payments. 
As a mutually acceptable settlement hasnt been reached, Im now proceeding to issue my 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already explained my findings to the bank as well as Mrs and Mr V. And so Ill not repeat 
all of the detail here. I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro should have refunded the 50% of the 
money Mrs and Mr V lost.  I am not persuaded the permitted exception regarding 
effective warnings applies to either transaction. But I dont find Mrs and Mr V acted with a reasonable basis for belief when they sent 
the payments.
In the circumstances, and considering the terms of the CRM Code, responsibility for 
the loss ought fairly and reasonably be shared. And so Metro should now, fairly and 
reasonably, provide compensation to cover half the loss on the second payment.
Metro should also pay 8% simple interest on that refund from the date it declined the 
claim to the date of settlement. It seems more likely than not Mrs and Mr V would 
have otherwise used that money to purchase a different motorhome, and so theyve 
been deprived of the use of those funds.
In reaching these findings I have taken account of all of the circumstances of the case. Ive 
thought about how the scam was unfolding and the impact on Mrs Vs decision making as 
things progressed. Ive not made my decision solely with the benefit of hindsight, though I 
accept of course that I am viewing events after they have happened.  
did Metro provide an Effective warning?
My findings here are limited to the second payment. Thats because Metro has already 
accepted that it didnt provide an effective warning for the first payment and its why theyve 
refunded 50% of it.
Metro has said it believes it provided an effective warning for the second payment because it 
had a discussion with Mrs V before allowing the payment to go through. But as Ive already 
explained to the bank, I dont believe it met the definition of an effective warning. Ive said as 
much because:
the key features of vehicle purchase scams werent explained or highlighted to 
Mrs V;
the steps to take to avoid such scams werent explained to Mrs V; and
the risks in proceeding with the payment werent properly explained to Mrs V.
Im also mindful that, in the specific circumstances of this case, the bank failed to recognise 
some particularly alarming features of the scam. Mrs V explained to the bank how shed 
found the motorhome, how payment was meant to be made, gave details of the holding 
account process and disclosed the email address from which the invoice had come. These 
were all common features of scams like this that the bank ought to have been aware of and 
on the look out for. When Mrs V disclosed these details the bank ought to have recognised 
there was a significant risk and tailored its warnings accordingly. Considering the banks 
response to what it was being told, I believe Mrs V reasonably moved past the warning she 
was given.
Im satisfied the bank has failed to demonstrate that the effective warning exception to 
reimbursement should apply. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Im persuaded that the proper provision of an effective warning 
would have likely avoided the loss attributed to the second payment. And I dont think Mrs V 
acted unreasonably in the face of the warning she was given. But that doesnt mean the 
bank bears full responsibility for the loss. The CRM Code sets out that a customers actions 
must also be considered.
did Mrs V have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
My findings here relate to both payments made by Mrs V. Thats because the bank has said 
the basis for belief exception applied to both payments. And Im satisfied that the exception 
to reimbursement, as set out in the CRM Code, does apply here.
I know Mrs V believed she was engaged in a legitimate purchase and it understandably 
came as a great shock when she realised shed been the victim of a scam. But what I have to consider is whether that basis for belief was reasonable, in all the circumstances of the 
case. 
Ive looked at the correspondence between Mrs V and the scammer, which include some 
details of the listing on E, and I can see why Mrs V found this convincing. The scammer is 
able to talk confidently about the condition of the motorhome and its history. And I can see 
that they had a 100% rating on E, which would have given Mrs V confidence.
But outside of that conversation and the listing I believe there were a number of concerning 
features that ought to have raised questions with Mrs V.
The first is the price the seller was willing to accept for the motorhome. It seemed very low 
for what was being offered. Ive questioned this with Mrs V already and I know she disagrees 
with what Ive said here. I explained previously that, having done a fairly broad and basic 
search for similar vehicles (in terms of the manufacturer and berth size), I couldnt find one 
for less than £20,000. Which meant the price Mrs V was expecting to purchase at  of 
£7,000  ought to have been a source of concern in of itself. There was no explanation from 
the scammer as to why the motorhome would be sold so cheaply. He only said that it wasnt 
getting a lot of use.
Mrs V has said she was looking at a number of other motorhomes that were around the 
same price. Shes not provided any evidence of that and so I cant say whether they were 
similar or not. Its possible they also werent genuine. But Ive since searched E again, as 
well as a popular second-hand car sales site, and Ive still found nothing that closely 
compares in price, even when searching only on the basis of similar berth. And so Im still 
persuaded the price ought to have given cause to question the legitimacy of the transaction.
In some cases of this nature, I might look to obtain an estimated cost from an independent 
valuation service. But, in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont find thats 
necessary. Thats because this isnt my only reason for finding there wasnt a reasonable 
basis for belief. And whether the independent valuation had been in line with what Ive found 
more recently, or if Mrs V could evidence the price she found seemed correct at the time, Id 
more likely than not still reach the same outcome. Thats because of the other factors Ive 
gone on to consider. 
Mrs V received an email with the invoice from what appeared to be an unknown company 
and not connected to E or P. And yet the email contained branding and logos of P. And 
whilst, on one hand, I can see why that might have helped convince Mrs V all was genuine, I 
believe its reasonable to say questions ought to have been raised as to why a separate and 
unknown company was claiming such links to the other two and why an email from it would 
contain terms and conditions, and advice on payment from P. The email was also signed off 
by P, rather than the invoicing company. And its also the case that Mrs V didnt check the 
legitimacy of the invoice company. There was no searching of them online to see if they 
were legitimate or to see who would be holding her money. 
When Mrs V spoke to the bank about the second payment she explained she was paying 
through E and it was them that had sent the invoice and payment account details. But she 
could see that wasnt the case, given the email address was for what she has said she 
believed to be a different company. And theres actually no mention of E in the email. But it 
doesnt appear this was questioned to a sufficient degree.
The evidence does suggest that Mrs V had some doubts about the invoice shed received 
and the address it came from. I say as much because she phoned both E and P to check the 
details. And that was a sensible precaution to take. But I think Mrs V ought to have been 
concerned by the answer she got from each company. Or, rather, the answers she didnt 
get. From what Mrs V has said it seems neither company was able to explain what the 
invoice was and didnt really know what Mrs V was talking about. Shes said they were both 
unhelpful. I believe its fair and reasonable to say this ought to have given cause for concern. It seems 
reasonable to expect that either firm ought to have been able to explain what the 
email/invoice was and to confirm the holding account process, if it was indeed legitimate. 
Im also aware that one of the discussions included the advice to see the motorhome before 
buying it. But Mrs and Mr V didnt do so. I can understand this would have been difficult 
because the motorhome was so far away. But I also know, from the discussion Mrs V had 
with the bank and the scammer, that their original intention had been to go and see the 
motorhome and pay in cash. And so it seems it was something they had been previously 
willing to do. 
I know Mrs Vs concerns at this point, following the calls with the E and P, were put to rest by 
using the live chat function that she used after clicking a link within the email. She thought 
she was talking to P, and it confirmed the purchase. But by this stage I believe there ought to 
have been significant concerns about the email and its legitimacy. And I dont find it was 
reasonable to disregard what had happened prior to the live chat, in terms of her 
conversations with the genuine companies. 
I can also see that Mrs V recognised that conducting an HPI check, including looking up the 
VIN, along with obtaining a copy of the logbook were all sensible steps to take before 
committing to the sale. Mrs V has said she wanted to carry one out, for her own peace of 
mind. But this check, and the obtaining of the log book, only took place after the money had 
been sent. And so while there was a recognition of risk and the need to mitigate it, it took 
place after the money had already been transferred and so, unfortunately, the check came 
too late. The evidence does show, however, that Mrs V had the need to carry out these 
checks in mind before making the payment. She says to the bank, when discussing the 
second payment, that she intends to carry out an HPI check and a check of the VIN. Had 
she done so, prior to making the payments, the scam would likely have been avoided.
With all of this in mind, Im satisfied there was enough going on at the time the scam was 
unfolding that Mrs and Mr V ought to have had concerns about the purchase they were 
making. There also appears to have been some recognition of risk on Mrs and Mr Vs part 
and the need to confirm some details. I believe had some further checks been carried out 
before sending the payments the scam would have been revealed and avoided. And so its 
fair and reasonable that they, along with the bank, bear some responsibility for the loss. 
Mrs V has said that she believes was vulnerable to this type of scam at the time. Shes said 
she was due to retire, was keen to travel and only had a small pension pot to rely on. And 
whilst I can see why this would have led Mrs V to seek a specific type of vehicle and would 
have limited her budget, I dont believe that it means it would be unreasonable to expect that 
she might have protected herself from the scam. And that is the test set out in the CRM 
Code.
Mrs V has also said that she feels she would have had more protection if shed paid by 
cheque. But thats not necessarily the case. Mrs V is, I believe, referring to the cheque 
clearing cycle and the ability to stop a cheque. And whilst it might be true that a cheque 
could potentially be stopped before being cashed that isnt a guarantee. And cheques tend 
to be cleared much faster than they used to. So this isnt a form of protection Mrs V should 
seek to rely on in future. Card payments are likely to be more secure methods of payment 
where the facility is available, though a refund is still not always guaranteed. Fraudsters will 
of course generally not accept such forms of payment (cheques included) in any case, 
because they know the most likely ways for scams to succeed. 
Putting things right
My findings have identified that Metro didnt do what it ought to have done under the CRM 
Code. And so responsibility for the loss is established. But its not only the banks actions 
that are considered under the CRM Code; I must also think about Mrs Vs actions. And my 
finding is that she hasnt met her requisite level of care, namely because Im not persuaded she had a reasonable basis for believing the purchase and the parties involved were 
legitimate. And so responsibility for the loss is to be shared between the bank and Mrs and 
Mr V.
Im satisfied this is how Metro ought to have answered the claim when it was raised, with a 
50% refund of the total loss. And so I find its fair and reasonable that it pays compensation 
to that effect now. 
Metro should, on receipt of Mrs V and Mr Vs acceptance:
refund Mrs and Mr V 50% of the second payment, totaling £2,250; and
pay interest on that amount at 8% simple per year, from the date Metro declined the 
claim to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
I upheld this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman