DRN-4419142
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera 
Financial Services (Alphera). He says they shouldnt have lent to him as the repayments 
were unaffordable.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement with Alphera to finance the purchase 
of a vehicle. He borrowed £44,912.70 and paid a deposit of £4,990.30  the cash price of the 
vehicle was £49,903. The agreement required Mr M to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£660.88, with an optional final instalment of £16,298.21 which would enable Mr M to keep 
the car. Mr M first missed an instalment in January 2019 and his payments after that were 
sporadic. The vehicle was repossessed in June 2022.
In the same month, Mr M complained to Alphera, saying he thought they shouldnt have lent 
to him. He said he had various financial commitments including having significantly 
increased his borrowing just before taking out the agreement.
In response, Alphera said theyd carried out a credit check before lending to Mr M, 
considering factors such as his credit score, indebtedness and use of credit, as well as his 
employment status. Alphera said the information theyd reviewed raised no concerns. Mr M 
wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to our service.
When he did, Alphera told us they had done additional checks  they said theyd looked at 
Mr Ms tax return because he was self-employed and theyd also obtained two months of 
bank statements but didnt look at these in detail because of the strength of the tax return 
and the fact that Mr M was replacing an existing hire purchase agreement. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think Alphera had done proportionate checks  and if they had, theyd have realised 
the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr M. So, she said, they should refund him any amounts 
hed paid in excess of a fair usage amount. Alphera havent responded to our investigators 
view  so its come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Alphera carry out proportionate checks?
MFL said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Ms credit file; 
obtained his bank statements; and
checked his income to his latest tax return.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, and what Alphera found. At around £60,000, the total amount 
Mr M would have to repay was substantial, and the term of the loan was five years, so it was 
important the checks were thorough. 
Alphera havent provided the full credit report they reviewed, but theyve provided a 
snapshot. As theyve stated, this doesnt show any adverse markers. And it suggests Mr M 
didnt have significant amounts of credit. Mr Ms copy of his credit file shows that he took out 
a mortgage in June 2018, with monthly repayments of £807. And he took out a loan of 
£20,000 in the same month, with monthly repayments of £421. This was the month before 
Alphera decided to lend to Mr M, which is likely why these credit commitments didnt show 
when Alphera checked Mr Ms report.
One of the credit agreements which did show up was Mr Ms existing hire purchase 
agreement  which required monthly repayments of £465. Mr Ms new hire purchase 
agreement was replacing that one, which gave Alphera some comfort, as his repayments 
were increasing by around £200 per month rather than adding £660 to his monthly 
expenditure. 
Mr M failed Alpheras automated checks, so a manual check was necessary. Alphera asked 
Mr M for copies of his bank statements for the preceding three months. He provided two 
months, April 2018 and May 2018  but not the most recent month. Alphera said they didnt 
do a full review of these statements  they checked his existing hire purchase agreement 
was being paid from this account, and they looked at his overall balance. Taking these 
together with the income from his tax return, they were satisfied the agreement would be 
affordable.
Mr Ms tax return showed his gross income was around £53,000 for the year ended 
5 April 2018. He took most of this in dividends, with the tax payable showing as just under 
£5,000 for the year. Its not clear whether he was paying National Insurance Contributions 
(NICs) but either way, his tax return suggests his average net income across the year was 
around £3,500 - £4,000 per month.
Mr Ms bank statements showed much higher income than this, suggesting his income 
wasnt evenly distributed across the year. During April and May 2018, his balance was often 
several thousand pounds, although he did dip into his overdraft for a short period. A cursory 
look at the two months statements Mr M provided to Alphera shows he was making 
significant and numerous payments to credit providers. And it shows a payment of £465 to a 
mortgage company  despite the fact there was no mortgage on his credit file at the time.
Taking together the fact that Mr M didnt provide his most recent bank statement, the size of 
the loan, and the indicators that Mr M likely had credit commitments that werent appearing 
on his credit file, Im not satisfied Alpheras checks were proportionate.  If Alphera had done proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved Alphera finding out more about Mr Ms financial 
commitments and his expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make the 
repayments in a sustainable way, rather than assuming his income was sufficient.
Ive looked at statements for Mr Ms bank accounts for the three months leading up to his 
finance application. Weve also spoken to Mr M about his circumstances at the time. Im not 
saying Alphera needed to obtain bank statements as part of their lending checks. But in the 
absence of other information, bank statements provide a good indication of Mr Ms 
commitments and expenditure at the time the lending decision was made. 
Mr Ms bank statement for June 2018 is the one that was missing when Alphera asked for 
the statements from Mr M. This statement shows Mr M obtaining a loan of £20,000. And it 
also shows him paying over £11,000 to a solicitor  because he was buying a house. From 
this statement its clear that Mr Ms committed expenditure was about to increase 
significantly. 
When its reasonably foreseeable that a customers expenditure will increase during the term 
of an agreement, CONC 5.2A.17 requires a business to estimate what that increase will be. 
Mr M would have known at the time what his mortgage, council tax and utilities bills were 
likely to be. And hed have been able to estimate the increase in his car insurance costs and 
road tax costs resulting from his change in vehicle.
Ive estimated Mr Ms expenditure using a combination of the information available from his 
bank statements, his credit file, and what hes told us about his utilities costs at the time. His 
mortgage was £807 per month and council tax, utilities and water totalled around £370 per 
month. Mr M was spending around £190 on phone, TV and internet services, and around 
£170 per month on fuel. He paid £287 per month in child support and £80 per month for 
storage services. Looking at the type of vehicle, its likely the road tax and insurance for his 
new car would have totalled around £350 per month. He had a family of five, with an 
additional child on the way, so an estimate of around £450 per month for food and other 
essentials seems reasonable. 
In addition to these costs, Mr M needed to make payments against his loans totalling around 
£650 per month. 
Adding everything together suggests Mr M would have monthly non-discretionary 
expenditure totalling around £3,350. When adding on monthly repayments for this 
agreement of £660, his total non-discretionary expenditure would exceed his income, 
suggesting the agreement was unaffordable for him.
In conclusion, if Alphera had done proportionate checks, theyd have found the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr M and it wouldnt have been fair and reasonable to lend to him.
Putting things right
Because I dont think Alphera should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for them to 
charge any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mr M had use of the vehicle 
for around 47 months so its fair he pays for that use. There isnt an exact formula for 
working out what amount would reflect a customers fair usage of a car. But in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in Mr Ms case Ive thought about the amount of interest charged 
on the agreement and Mr Ms overall usage of the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount 
Mr M should pay is a total of £22,414.68. To settle Mr Ms complaint, Alphera should do the 
following:
Refund all the payments Mr M has made in excess of £22,414.68, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
If Mr M has paid less than £22,414.68, Alphera should arrange an affordable and 
sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Terminate the agreement and remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file regarding the agreement.
If Alphera consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should provide Mr M a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mr M can 
reclaim that amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services need to take the steps outlined above to settle 
the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman