DRN-3167325
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the actions The Co-operative Bank Plc took when he reported a 
fraudulent transaction.
What happened
Mr E reported that a payment of £488 had left his account fraudulently. The bank refunded 
the payment. However it subsequently came to light that the payment was related to two 
congestion charges totalling £160 which had been refunded to Mr E without his knowledge. 
The bank acknowledged that it shouldnt have made the £488 refund without further looking 
into the matter. It said that it was satisfied that the payment was a dispute with a car hire 
company and not fraud. Nevertheless it did not seek to recover this payment but said that as 
it included the £160 which Mr E had been refunded from TFL it would treat that as 
compensation for the delays and misinformation.
Our investigator considered that was fair. Mr E appealed. In summary he felt that the bank 
had exceeded its role.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only included a summary of the background to this matter and I understand that Mr E is 
unhappy with the actions of the car hire company, but as our investigator explained, we cant 
comment on actions taken by this company. I am only considering the actions of the bank.
It is clear that the bank acted with some haste in accepting that the payment was fraudulent 
without making further enquiries. The correct course would have been to advise Mr E to take 
the matter up with the company with whom he had signed a hire contract. However it has 
accepted this and put Mr E in the position he would have been in by refunding the payment 
to his account. Mr E had agreed with the bank that he was due to pay £160 to the 
congestion charge office (TFL) and had been advised that this sum was part of the £488 and 
that the bank would treat that as compensation. I think that was fair. 
Mr E has said in response to our investigators view that the full amount of £488 didnt 
include the £160 returned to him by the congestion charge office. I do accept that Mr E is 
unhappy with the actions taken by the hire company and that he may have had grounds to 
dispute the charges. Nevertheless on the evidence before me I find that the bank acted fairly 
based on the information available to it at the time. 
I note that Mr E says he was in the process of moving home but had to put this on hold as he 
could not meet all his financial commitments. I am not persuaded that Mr E was prevented 
from moving due to the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr E for his representations but in all the circumstances Im not persuaded 
that Mr E has been treated unfairly or unreasonably by The Co-operative Bank Plc. It follows 
that there is no basis for me require the bank to make any further payment to Mr E.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman