DRN-3915807
The complaint
Mr E complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so 
to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Vision.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In around October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter 
which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr E was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to Vision 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances were broadly as follows:
Mr E was 53 years old, married and with children. Mr and Mrs E owned a home with 
a £12,500 mortgage. This had around 3 years left to pay.
Mr E earned around £31,700 per year and Mrs E earned £30,000. After expenses he 
and Mrs E had a reasonable amount of disposable income left over each month. 
They had savings of £48,000. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Es BSPS was approximately 
£316,582. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr E had also recently joined a defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. This had 
around £4,000 in it at the time, but significant contributions were going into this every 
month from both Mr E and his employer. 
Vision set out its advice in a suitability report dated 30 January 2018. In this it advised Mr E 
to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. Vision 
said this would allow Mr E to achieve his objectives. Mr E accepted this advice and so 
transferred out several weeks later. In 2022 Mr E complained to Vision about its advice, 
saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Vision upheld his complaint agreeing the advice had been unsuitable.
However, Mr E referred his complaint to our Service because Visions method of redress 
calculation wasnt something he agreed with. Vision initially used an early retirement 
assumption of 58. This was because it said Mr E had implied, during the advice sessions in 
2018, that this was what he was hoping to do. Vision had also calculated the redress against 
the benefits of the PPF, rather than using BSPS2.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and agreed the complaint should be 
upheld and that the redress should be awarded using the assumption that Mr E would have 
eventually moved to the BSPS2, rather than transferring away. The investigator also said the 
NRA of 65 should be used, rather than the early retirement age of 58 Vision had used. 
Vision now accepts this. And it has asked for it to be made clear that it has been evidently 
waiting a considerable amount of time for Mr E to produce information for the purposes of 
the calculation and that it had hoped that having accepted the investigator's decision, that 
this complaint could have been resolved before any final decision.
Ive noted Vision later calculated the redress based on what the investigator had said. And it 
has said that, in any event, even if using the NRA as the retirement age and the assumption 
Mr E would have joined the BSPS2, there is no loss to Mr E. He doesnt think this can be 
right.
The parties havent been able to agree about the redress outcome, so Ive been asked to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Vision's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Vision should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Es best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Es best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from Vision. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made 
to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Es complaint. 
Introductory issues
Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. 
However, Ive noted in this case, that although the suitability report was from 30 January 
2018, theres plenty of evidence showing Mr E had already told the BSPS trustees that he 
had opted to join BSPS2 ahead of the deadline date. In fact, this opting in decision by Mr E 
is contained in Visions own notes from the time. Visions Financial Review Form said he had 
elected to transfer to the new BSPS2 scheme rather than remain in [the] existing [scheme] 
and be placed in PPF. So this shows hed already elected moving to the BSPS2 in due 
course, if even as a precautionary measure, whilst he was still sourcing longer-term pension 
advice. Ive also seen evidence of a letter from the trustees confirming Mr Es selection.
This means that although Vision didnt start researching his pension details and issuing its 
advice until January 2018 (after the deadline), Mr E was already on course to join the 
BSPS2. And it was Visions transfer-away advice that caused this to change. To be clear 
then, this means the redress should be based on Mr E joining the BSPS2 if he hadnt been 
unsuitably advised.
Was the advice unsuitable? 
In a case of this nature, Id normally go on to comprehensively explain why the advice to 
transfer away was unsuitable.
However, as Ive said, Vision already accepts the advice was unsuitable. I refer to its final 
response letter of 29 July 2022 which sets this out very clearly. So, if Vision accepted then 
that its advice was unsuitable, it would clearly be very hard for it now to say the advice was 
suitable.
What retirement age should be used in the redress assumptions?
Ive noted that Vision has already carried out a calculation which it says used a retirement 
age of 65, as opposed to 58.Mr E was only 53 at the time and in good health. This is still relatively young in a retirement 
context although there was obviously a discussion during the advice sessions about him 
wanting to retire at around the age of 58. But whilst Im sure like many people, Mr E may 
have aspired to retire early, he was still 12 years from the NRA and five years from the age 
of 58. I cant see that his retirement plans were concrete and he still had a mortgage and two 
dependent children at the time. I think too that there were still some unforeseen things that 
life could throw at Mr and Mrs E which might have included, for example, health issues, 
financial pressures or relationship demands. So I dont think he was yet at the stage where 
mature or unchangeable retirement plans were right upon him.
Ive noted several discussion points from the parties about what Mr E has indeed gone on to 
do. But of course, this is with the benefit of hindsight and also on the basis that Mr E was put 
into a particular financial situation as a result of Visions unsuitable advice.
It is therefore my direction that the correct thing to do here is to use Mr Es NRA as 
prescribed in the ceding schemes rules. This age, as we know, is 65.
Should Vision pay Mr E for distress and inconvenience?
Mr E has asked that this matter be considered. I have therefore thought about it with great 
care. Our investigator recommended that Vision should pay Mr E for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr E in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision and it was a relatively large amount. In his situation I think 
the thought of losing material benefits would have impacted upon Mr E. 
Overall, I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress and inconvenience is 
proportionate in all the circumstances. 
Summary
By transferring from the BSPS to a personal pension arrangement, Mr E was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. Vision now accepts the 
advice was unsuitable. 
On this basis, I think Vision should have advised Mr E to remain opted into the BSPS2. 
Vision should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Visions unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would 
have most likely have remained opted into the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal 
pension if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. Vision should use 
the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
Vision must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. Vision should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr E and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Vision should:
calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr E accepts Visions offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr E as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Vision may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that Vision should pay £300 to Mr E for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered this issue carefully 
particularly with regard to the size of this pension and Mr Es wider circumstances. Ive 
considered also, the opportunities our investigator gave to Mr E to add any evidence about 
this aspect and his feedback directly to this invitation. I agree the recommended payment of 
£300. Vision should pay Mr E this amount in addition to the redress Ive set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation, plus any interest and/or costs 
that I consider are appropriate. 
Mr E should assist Vision in calculating the redress by producing information about his 
transferred funds.My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Vision 
Independent Financial Planning Ltd to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above.
If Mr E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman