DRN-3358437
The complaint
Mr W complains through his representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
Money lent him money on high interest loans that he was unable to afford to repay
What happened
Mr W was given the following loans by 118 118 Money:
Date Amount Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayableDate 
repaid
Loan one 2/2/2019 £1,000 £65 £1,569 4/1/2020
Loan two 4/1/2020 £1,307 £85 £2052 5/11/2020
The first loan was repaid from the second loan.
Mr W says the loans caused him financial difficulties and that:
He wasnt asked for proof of his financial situation; payslips, bank statements etc. in 
order to complete adequate checks.
A sufficient review of his circumstances would have shown that he was not in a position 
to take on another large loan.
He was struggling to pay for essentials, priority bills and food etc. due to repayments on 
the loan.
118 118 Money extended/topped up the loan even though he had had difficulty in 
repaying already.
He wasnt asked if his circumstances had changed at all before extending / topping up 
the loan.
The process in obtaining a loan and subsequent top up required very little evidence and 
was all completed online with no communication verbally from 118 118 Money.
The high interest took advantage of his situation and over the course of a few years he 
ended up paying well over the odds until he was in a stable position to clear the debt.
118 118 Money said that it reviewed his detailed application, and verified his income. it also 
carried out a credit report in respect of each loan. Mr W was asked to verify that the answers 
to the questions in both applications were true and complete. It assessed that both loans 
were affordable.
Our adjudicator said that for both loans 118 118 Money carried out proportionate checks and 
that he hadnt seen anything which suggested that Mr W wouldnt have been able to
sustainably make the repayments he needed to for these loans.
Mr W disagreed saying he was living beyond his means consistently living on his overdraft. 
He said his income fluctuated, being commission based. In 2020 he was made redundant 
and used the funds to pay off his loan.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan one
The credit report for this loan application showed that Mr W already had a loan which he was 
paying back at £61 a month and two credit cards with a combined balance of £1,766. It also 
showed that Mr W had an overdraft on his current account, very nearly at the limit of £2,000. 
Mr W declared his income to be around £1,900 a month. There were no other active credit 
accounts on the report. With his declared expenditure including rent to be £601, and 
declared payments of £87 towards his credit cards it would appear that Mr W had a 
disposable income of over £1,100 from which to fund the further borrowing.
I think, taking account of the amount of the loan and the instalments that 118 118 Money did 
carry out proportionate checks. And as a company specialising in loans to people with poor 
credit records, the interest rate was inevitably high. But should the checks have alerted 118 
118 Money to carry out further checks of Mr Ws financial circumstances?
It could have asked Mr W to provide a bank statement on the basis that he had an overdraft 
which wasnt decreasing. Mr W has sent in statements from the three months up to and 
including the loan. The only figure for an income is around £1,300 for November and 
December 2018 and £1,566 for January 2020. I assume, as Mr W said his income 
fluctuated, that over the year his average salary was more like the £1,900 figure he quoted. 
But even if he did overestimate his income, and 118 118 Money had made further checks 
which revealed the lower income figure, he still would have been left with sufficient income to 
fund the 118 118 Money loan.
The bank statements dont show any other payments to lenders (apart from those declared). 
So if 118 118 Money had asked for bank statements it would have shown that he had a 
lower income than declared and that he was consistently overdrawn. But Mr W was paying 
his credit commitments. I think 118 1118 money could have asked Mr W for more details of 
his financial circumstances but I dont think on the evidence Ive seen that those details 
would have shown the loan to be unaffordable. I think it made a fair lending decision.
loan two
Loan one had been for debt consolidation, and I can see Mr W used the loan to pay off some 
of his credit and other loans. Mr W had paid the instalments on loan one without any 
problems, which was then consolidated into this loan. Mr W was asked to complete a new 
application and essentially this showed him have the same income and similar outgoings. 
The credit report showed his commitments to be around £115, a decrease from before. With 
the new loan this amounted to around £200 for credit commitments. Again from the checks 
done by 118 118 Money the loan would appear to have been affordable. 
The credit report did show Mr W was running an overdraft of just above the limit. And again 
this could have alerted 118 118 Monet to carry out further checks. If it had checked his bank 
statement Im not sure this would have proved useful information. The regular payments into 
the account appeared to come from another account and I can see no entry showing a 
salary payment. But again there were no loans or payments to any other credit providers,
Again I think 118 1118 money could have asked Mr W for more details of his financial circumstances but I dont think on the evidence Ive seen that those details would have 
shown the loan to be unaffordable. I think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision.
Mr W has told us the loans became unaffordable to him. He says the loans were used to pay 
off creditors and for living expenses. He was made redundant in 2020 and used the money 
to pay off the loan. Im sorry that his financial situation got worse, but I can only consider the 
situation as it was at the time he made the loan applications.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman