DRN-2538453
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Debt Managers (Services) Limited continued to report an account to 
the credit reference agencies after it had been included in an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA). She wants her credit file to be updated correctly and compensation.
What happened
Mrs F tells us that she cleared all her debts through an IVA which was completed in 2019. 
But she later discovered that her credit file showed that DML - which had previously owned 
one of the debts  was still reporting this as open and unsettled. Mrs F explains that an 
application she made for employment was delayed. And that as a consequence of her credit 
file entry, she had to be referred to and provide an explanation for a professional standards 
committee. 
DML accepted that an error had been made. And that the account should not have 
continued to be reported. It offered £300 in full and final settlement of the complaint. And it 
said it had taken steps to correct the error with the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator recommended that DML should pay £500 compensation. He said Mrs F had 
experienced undue trouble and upset. Including being referred to a standards committee 
within her employment. He thought DML had delayed its investigation and that if had been 
followed up in 2019  after a dispute had been raised by a credit reference agency - Mrs F 
would have been spared some of the time and effort to get the matter resolved.
DML didnt agree and said it wouldnt increase its current offer. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs F would be concerned and upset that a debt that she had repaid 
was still being reported as open and unsettled. And that this has had a substantial impact on 
her. She was applying for employment, the nature of which required a high standard of 
financial probity.  
The material facts arent really in dispute. DML sold the debt which was part of an IVA 
towards the end of 2017. At which time it should have ceased reporting it as the new owners 
assumed that responsibility. The IVA was completed in July 2020. 
DML received a query from a credit reference agency in November 2019 querying the 
account status and that DML was reporting the debt as unsettled.
DML maintained the reporting was correct. And it wasnt until it upheld Mrs Fs complaint in 
July 2020 that DML accepted that an error had been made. 
In assessing the appropriate level of compensation Im aware that Mrs F has explained that 
she was refused a mortgage owing to the relevant account still being reported as being 
defaulted. But whilst I accept this wouldnt have been a positive feature of any application its 
almost impossible to identify  such is the number of relevant criteria  a single factor that 
results in an application failing.
More relevant I feel is the length of time it took for DML to fully investigate and accept that an 
error had been made. This dates back to November 2019. And whilst any inaccurate 
reporting of an account as unsettled and in default is likely to have an adverse impact, it 
cant really be disputed that the longer this persists the greater the effect is likely to be.
Mrs F has probably also experienced an above average level of distress and inconvenience 
due to her employment situation. Notes indicate that DML was advised in January 2020 as 
to the specific reason why its reporting of the account status was being queried. Id have 
expected this to have prompted a more thorough investigation. And I conclude the impact 
the error had on her is substantial. Ive also reached a similar conclusion to that of our 
investigator, namely that this impact might have been mitigated had DML acted more 
purposefully.
Given that DML had more than one opportunity to correct its error  and the delay 
occasioned - I find that compensation of £500  which is at the lowest level of what we 
consider to be substantial  is fair and reasonable.
Accordingly that is the figure I shall require DML to pay to Mrs F.
Putting things right
 Debt Managers (Services) Limited should now take the following action:
Pay £500 to Mrs F for distress and inconvenience caused by the mistaken reporting of this 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
I require Debt Managers (Services) Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding 
paragraph.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman