DRN-1733504
The complaint
Mrs D complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax will not refund money which she 
says she did not withdraw from her account.
What happened
Mrs D made two cash payments into her account  on 20th and 27th August 2019. But when 
she checked her statement some days later, not only did it show the credits to the account, 
but it also showed the money was debited on the same day too.  Mrs D said she hadnt 
withdrawn this money and so complained to Halifax.
Halifax didnt uphold her complaint.  It said the withdrawal was made using Mrs D genuine 
card and confirmed using her PIN.  Mrs D hadnt shared this with anyone and was in 
possession of her card.
When Mrs D asked that CCTV be checked, it was requested by the fraud department  but 
by this time, it was no longer available from the branch.  Mrs D thought Halifax had done this 
on purpose.
In its final response to her, Halifax offered Mrs D £150 for the poor service she had received 
but said it would not be refunding the two transactions.
So, Mrs D came to this service and asked that we look into her complaint.
Our investigator explained she could not ask Halifax to do anymore.  The matter was then 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs D is going to be disappointed with this outcome  but for very much the same 
reasons as the investigator, I am not asking Halifax to refund this money to her.#
I have to make a decision based on the evidence before me.  I have noted what Mrs D has 
said in her communication with this service  but I cannot ignore the documentary evidence 
which has come from Halifax.  
This evidence shows Mrs D making the payments in and it also shows the account being 
debited with the same amount  on both occasions.
Mrs D says had CCTV been available, it would have shown that she had not taken any 
money out.  Unfortunately, that is no longer available  and whilst it may have been helpful, I 
think there is still sufficient evidence upon which I can make a finding.
Mrs D also submits that she received no receipt for her withdrawal, and this supports her 
contention that no money was handed over to her.  Its been explained to her by the 
investigator that its not Halifaxs policy to issue receipts unless the customer requests one.  
It doesnt appear Mrs D did on either occasion.
Halifax has confirmed its tills balanced on both dates and that there were no discrepancies.  
It has also confirmed it had no concerns about either cashier who had dealt with Mrs D and 
that neither had faced any disciplinaries.  In fact, one had been working for Halifax for a 
considerable time  and Mrs D acknowledges she recognised one of the cashiers in her 
letters to this service.
So, my decision in not upholding Mrs Ds complaint is not because I do not believe what she 
says  rather that I have to decide what is more likely to have happened on the basis of the 
evidence before me.  That evidence leads me to conclude Halifax has done nothing wrong in 
how it dealt with Mrs Ds complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman