DRN-4026138
The complaint
E, a company, complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited, trading as Hiscox, 
declined to cover claims on its commercial legal expenses insurance policy.
The complaint is brought by Miss G on behalf of E as a Director.
What happened
E took out a commercial insurance policy through a broker. The policy is underwritten by 
Hiscox. 
A dispute arose between Miss G and her former landlord in relation to unpaid rent arrears. 
The landlord obtained a Possession Order against Miss G directly. Miss G made several 
efforts to set that aside which led to a Civil Restraint Order and injunctive proceedings being 
taken out against her. Miss G has made several claims on Es Hiscox policy for help to 
pursue these matters directly.
Hiscox appointed Solicitors to consider the matter. They took the view that the claims Miss G 
wanted to pursue were being made in her personal capacity and not as a Director of E. They 
gave several reasons for this. As such Hiscox declined to cover any of the claims. They also 
said the claims arose before the start of their policy, so didnt in any event attract cover.
Our investigator considered Miss Gs complaints and concluded they shouldnt be upheld. 
He provided several detailed letters and views which set out that the proceedings Miss G 
wanted to bring all stemmed from events that predated the policy. He also said that the 
claims werent covered because they were for matters that applied to Miss G in her personal 
capacity and not as Director of G. Miss G doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to 
me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Miss Gs complaint for some of the reasons set out by 
the investigator. Ill explain why below.
I have provided a brief summary of the matter above. Thats because the history of the claim 
is well known to both parties so theres no need for me to repeat it here.  Miss G has made a 
considerable number of submissions throughout the life of this complaint. I dont intend to 
repeat all of those here either, but I can assure her Ive considered them all. 
The approach Ive taken represents the informal nature of our Service. Overall the matter Im 
deciding is whether the claims Miss G wishes to bring predate the start date of the policy E 
had in place with Hiscox and if not, whether they fall within cover because they pertain to the 
activities of E, rather than Miss G personally.
The starting point is the policy terms. Under the heading "what is not covered" they say:
A. We will not make any payment for any claim or part of a claim or loss directly or indirectly 
due to:
Pre-existing problems 17. anything, including any actual or alleged shortcoming in your 
work, likely to lead to a claim against you or your own loss, which you knew or ought 
reasonably to have known about before we agreed to insure you
The insurance started in October 2021. As I understand it part of the policy is intended to be 
retroactive in relation to the professional indemnity element of cover, provided that Miss G 
declared any potential claims that might exist at the time it was taken out. Hiscox have said 
that when E took the policy out, they asked the following:
Are you aware of any shortcoming, complaint, client withholding payment, or incident that 
might result in a loss or a claim being made against you? to which Miss G answered No. 
Because of this E isnt covered for any claims that were in existence before the policy 
started. 
Ive considered whether the claims Miss G wanted to make predated October 2021 and I 
think its quite clear they did. The dispute with the landlord started long before that date. 
Indeed, the Possession Order obtained against her was in February 2021, with requests for 
payment of rent arrears being sent to her in the preceding year. The applications Miss G 
wanted cover to pursue were in response to the Possession Order, amounting to attempts to 
set it aside. Because of this I cant say that Hiscox is obliged to cover the claim under the 
professional indemnity section of the policy. That applies to the claim Miss G wants to 
pursue against the landlord for tampering with her post- which is all linked to and arises from 
the underlying dispute with the landlord in any event. 
In light of the foregoing, its not necessary for me to consider whether Es claim fell within the 
Directors and officers liability section of the policy because the claims would still be 
excluded by the terms Ive set out above. As such Ive not made any findings in respect of 
this because they make no difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
For clarirty, and although the investigator has made this clear, I havent considered any of 
Miss Gs other complaints on behalf of E, such as Hiscox cancellation of the policy or the 
actions of any Solicitors. The former is something Miss G will need to raise with Hiscox 
directly. Any complaint about the conduct of Solicitors isnt something this Service can 
consider as it doesnt fall within our remit.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Es complaint against Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited trading as Hiscox. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman