DRN-2857802
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the replacement TV that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) 
offered her under an insurance policy, when she claimed for a broken TV.
Any reference to D&G includes its agents.
  
What happened
Mrs L bought a 3D plasma TV in around 2012, and then insured this with a D&G multi-plan 
insurance policy. The insurance policy covered Mrs Ls TV in the event of a breakdown or 
accidental damage.
In October 2020, Mrs Ls TV stopped working, so she made a claim under her policy. D&G 
accepted the claim and attempted to repair the TV. It took around a month for the repair to 
happen and when it was returned the TV was still not working. D&G offered to provide Mrs L 
with a replacement TV, and Mrs L was happy to proceed on this basis.
Following this, Mrs L was unhappy with the proposed replacement model offered by D&G. 
She says the value of the model is around £600, which is significantly less than the £4,500 
she paid for her original TV when she bought it. She was also unhappy with the picture 
quality on the model offered, which she says wasnt as good as her original TV. 
So, Mrs L spoke to the manufacturer of her original TV to find what she believed was a more 
comparable model. She says she was given the details of a TV which retailed for around 
£1,699. Mrs L said she went to look at this TV in a shop and felt this offered a close enough 
picture quality to the original TV, and was therefore a more comparable model. So, she 
complained to D&G about the model it offered her and about the overall customer service 
shed received.
D&G reviewed matters. It explained that 3D plasma TVs were no longer made, so it had 
offered Mrs L the current equivalent, which was an LCD LED backlit TV. It said that the 
model suggested by the manufacturer is the most expensive OLED TV, and the highest 
series in their range. So, it didnt agree that this was a comparable match to the original TV 
Mrs L had.
It did, however, think the customer service it offered Mrs L couldve been better. Amongst 
other issues, it acknowledged that there were delays with the repair process. It also 
acknowledged that Mrs L had been given incorrect information about her policy by advisers 
shed spoken with in the past and that she had to prompt an adviser to remove the TV from 
her plan when it was written off. D&G apologised and paid Mrs L £70 compensation. Mrs L 
remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters. He didnt think the model offered by D&G was 
comparable, given that the sound output was 10 watts lower than Mrs Ls original TV. He 
recommended that D&G should replace Mrs Ls TV with a closer fit and also pay an 
additional £80 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs L didnt dispute our investigators findings, but D&G did. Whilst it agreed to the 
increased compensation, it still thought the model it offered was a comparable match to 
Mrs Ls original TV. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I thought D&Gs proposed replacement TV 
was a reasonable match in the circumstances. But I explained that I thought the service it 
offered Mrs L couldve been better, and that it should pay her a total of £150 compensation 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience it caused her. D&G accepted the decision. 
Mrs L disagreed with the decision and mostly reiterated her previous points. She also said 
she had since found a TV which retails for £1,499 which she thinks is a more comparable 
match to the original TV. And, Mrs L said that she thought she had been mis-sold the policy.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ive 
explained my reasoning below. But before I do so, I want to say that I have taken on board 
all of the additional comments Mrs L raised in response to the provisional decision.
The terms of Mrs Ls policy say that where D&G cant repair an item, or that it decides its 
uneconomical to repair it, it will arrange to replace the product with one which is the same or 
a similar make and technical specification. Mrs Ls TV was a 3D plasma TV, which D&G 
says are no longer made. In these circumstances, Id expect D&G to provide a replacement 
with a similar specification. And, from the information Ive seen, Im satisfied it has.
I say this because D&G has offered an LCD LED backlit TV from the same brand, which it 
says is the current equivalent of Mrs Ls TV. And, having reviewed the technical 
specifications of both Mrs Ls TV and the proposed replacement from D&G, Im satisfied that 
it is similar in several areas, and the proposed replacement also offers improvements in 
some areas too.
I understand Mrs L is unhappy that there is a downgrade of 10 watts in the sound quality of 
the replacement model and has explained that her and her husbands hearing isnt as good 
as it used to be, so the sound quality is important to them. Mrs L has also pointed out that 
the TVs she believes are more comparable, offer the same sound quality as the original. 
However, at least one of the TVs Mrs L would prefer also offers upgrades in multiple areas 
when compared with the original TV. So, whilst I acknowledge there is a reduction in sound 
quality of 10 watts in D&Gs proposed replacement, I think that the similarities and upgrades 
in the other specification areas are enough to make it a comparable model overall. And, the 
terms of Mrs Ls policy dont require D&G to find an exact match for each feature or 
specification of the TV.
Mrs L has said the picture quality on D&Gs proposed replacement TV isnt as good as her 
previous one. However, as outlined above, the terms of the policy require D&G to provide a 
TV with a similar specification in the absence of the same model, which Im satisfied it has. I 
appreciate its disappointing for Mrs L that the picture quality isnt as good as the original 3D 
plasma TV, but this isnt something I can reasonably hold D&G responsible for. 
As I understand it, D&Gs advisers made some errors when recording the purchase price of 
the original TV. In summary, the TV was recorded with a lower purchase price than what 
Mrs L bought it for. Mrs L was also incorrectly told that the purchase price wasnt taken into 
consideration when setting up cover. Mrs L has expressed concerns that these errors may 
have had an impact on her claim, and the value of the replacement TV she was offered. However, the terms of the policy require D&G to find a replacement based on the make and 
technical specification of the item, and not the purchase value. Therefore, Im not persuaded 
the errors affected Mrs Ls claim in the way she describes. 
Mrs L has also suggested that the policy may have been mis-sold to her because of this, and 
has said that she wasnt aware that a replacement TV would be sourced on technical 
specification and not the products value. But this isnt something Ive considered as part of 
my decision, as this wasnt the main complaint Mrs L brought to this service. If Mrs L wants 
to complain about the sale of her policy, shell need to do so with the business responsible 
for the sale of the policy in the first instance. And, if she remains unhappy, then she can 
pursue her complaint with this service if she wishes. 
Its not in dispute that the overall customer service D&G offered couldve been better. As I 
understand it, Mrs L had to prompt D&G to remove the TV from her plan when it was written 
off. Additionally, there were delays in the handling of the claim and when the TV was 
originally returned to Mrs L, it was still broken. Mrs L has described in detail the impact that 
being without a TV had on both her and her husband. She explained that her husband has 
been unwell, and that theyre both vulnerable and spend a lot of their time indoors as a 
result. Mrs L says that being without a replacement TV to watch for longer than was 
necessary, and having to rely on a portable TV loaned to them by a family member, had a 
considerable impact on their wellbeing.
D&G has already paid Mrs L £70 compensation however, having considered this carefully, I 
dont think this is enough to recognise the overall impact that the poor service had on Mrs L. 
I think an additional £80, to make £150 in total, is a fairer reflection of the impact on Mrs L in 
the circumstances. Additionally, Im aware that an adviser Mrs L spoke with attempted to 
close her complaint early, when there were still issues outstanding. D&G acknowledged this 
error and apologised for it in the final response letter, which seems appropriate to me.
Overall, Im satisfied that the replacement TV D&G offered was a reasonable match in the 
circumstances. And, as I understand it, D&G has offered to either provide Mrs L this 
replacement TV or the cash value of it as an alternative, which Im persuaded is fair. 
However, I do think the service it offered couldve been better, and that Mrs L should be paid 
a total of £150 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay 
Mrs L £80, in addition to the £70 it has already paid her, for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc has made an offer to either provide Mrs L with the 
replacement TV it offered, or pay Mrs L the cash settlement for the cost of it as an 
alternative. If Mrs L chooses to accept, then Domestic & General Insurance Plc needs to 
settle the claim in line with the option Mrs L chooses.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman