DRN-2286394
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mrs M as administrator of the estate of the late Mr C. She 
complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold Mr C a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2000. The policy was taken out in 
one of the banks branches and provided Mr C with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M didnt agree 
so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
The mortgage application form included a separate section headed MortgageCare and 
there were two equally clear options to either accept or decline the PPI. Mr C ticked to 
confirm he wanted to apply for a policy that covered him for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. There was an option for unemployment only, so I think there must have 
been some discussion about the policy for Mr C to make the choice that he did. Mr C signed, 
separately from the main application, to confirm that he wanted PPI. He also completed a 
separate direct debit instruction.
Overall, I think Barclays made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it.
Barclays recommended the policy to Mr C and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable based on 
what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr C was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mrs M told us that Mr C would probably have received up to six months pay from his 
employer if he couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. The PPI would have paid 
out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness in 
addition to his sick pay. It also covered him if hed become unemployed. The mortgage 
was a significant long-term financial commitment and Mr Cs home was at risk if he didnt 
keep up with the repayments. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit, in 
addition to Mr Cs existing arrangements.
Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr C before he 
agreed to purchase it. Its possible he wasnt told how much it would cost each month 
until after the mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected Mr Cs decision to purchase the policy. 
I've found that hed chosen to take out the policy and would have known he would have 
to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
So I think it unlikely he would have made a different decision if better information about 
the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Barclays 
recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr C would have made a different 
decision about taking out the policy if better information had been provided to him  
overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI to Mr Cs estate because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, since the complaint was referred to us, Barclays has offered to pay 
back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr Cs estate.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr Cs estate any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50 % of the PPI premium.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman