DRN-3274352
The complaint
Ms H believes Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax made statements in a letter they sent 
to her that impugn her name and may be considered libellous.
What happened
Ms H had a loan with Halifax. In 2015, Halifax placed the loan in default and in 2018, sold 
the remaining debt to a third party.
In December 2020, Halifax wrote to Ms H. In their letter, they said theyd, undertaken a 
review of the internal collections processandfollowing an assessment of your financial 
circumstances, we did not always take the appropriate course of action. Halifax went on 
to say, We are refunding the interest, fees and/or chargeswhere we did not always take 
the appropriate course of action based upon our understanding of your circumstances at the 
time. 
Ms H wasnt happy with the statements included within the letter. So, she complained to 
Halifax. She said they imply that my financial circumstances might have some relevance to 
my dispute with Halifaximpugn my good name, they might also be deemed libellous. Ms 
H also expressed concern that the letter and its contents may have been repeated to the 
third party to whom the outstanding debt was sold.
Halifax responded to Ms Hs complaint in writing. They said theyd `been no bank error in 
issuing you this letter or with the wording within it. As Ms Hs complaint wasnt upheld by 
Halifax, she decided to refer matters to this service.
Having considered all the circumstances of Ms Hs complaint, our investigator didnt agree 
that Halifax had done anything wrong here. Our investigator said that the letter made no 
reference to the context of any dispute that Ms H may consider unresolved, and the standard 
wording used appeared innocuous.
Ms H didnt agree with our investigators findings. She thought Halifaxs letter implied 
potential personal fraud, defamation of character and included possible libellous statements. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ms Hs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, its important to clarify that the complaint Ive considered relates specifically to 
the letter sent by Halifax to Ms H in December 2020. This was the basis of the complaint 
raised by Ms H in January 2021. Halifax responded in writing to that complaint in February 
2021 and included Ms Hs right to refer the outcome to this service.
Any other ongoing disputes or complaints between Ms H and Halifax cant be considered as 
they predate this particular issue by some years and dont form part of the complaint raised 
and responded to by Halifax.
Regardless of the circumstances and reasons, it is clear Halifax placed Ms Hs loan in 
default. This meant that for a period of time, the management of that debt was undertaken 
by Halifaxs own collections department. In 2018, Halifax then sold the outstanding debt to a 
third party. These facts are not in question.
Halifax explain in their letter to Ms H theyd recently undertaken a review of our internal 
collections processes before we transferred your accountbetween ..December 2014 and 
..March 2018. This is a statement of fact and provides context about why they were writing 
to Ms H.
Their letter goes on to say, following an assessment of your financial circumstances, we did 
not always take the appropriate course of action. Halifax have explained that the letter is 
generic. That is to say, the wording is standard to all customers who received a refund 
following their review. So, while the letter is addressed personally to Ms H, I dont believe it 
makes any specific suggestions or inference about Ms Hs own circumstances. While it 
references financial circumstances, it makes no comments or reference to what these 
were. 
The letter is factual. Halifax did complete an assessment. They did assess Ms Hs financial 
circumstances. They confirm they didnt always take the appropriate course of action. 
Further, the letter makes no specific reference to any other dispute or complaint that may, or 
may not, exist. So, while I appreciate Ms H may disagree, I dont believe the letter includes 
any content or context that could be interpreted as derogatory. 
Ms H also suggested that the statements within the letter may be libellous if repeated to the 
third party who purchased the debt from Halifax. Particularly as any refund was to be applied 
to the account held with that third party. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that any negative 
statement or opinion has been passed to the third party referred to within the letter. 
I appreciate Ms H may be disappointed, but I dont agree Halifax did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman