DRN-1992945
The complaint
Miss I complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral):
paid out on a claim made by a third party (TP) under her motor insurance policy 
which wasnt her fault; and
didnt keep her properly updated while it dealt with the claim.
What happened
Miss I had a motor insurance policy with Admiral for her car. In September 2019, she was in 
a collision with another car driven by TP. The police were involved. Miss I said TP was 
responsible for the collision, and it seemed the matter would proceed on this basis until it 
transpired that Miss I only had a provisional driving licence, and was driving unaccompanied.
The police said because of this it was likely she would be held responsible for the accident. 
Admiral said that because she was driving without a valid licence she wasnt covered for the 
accident, and her policy would be cancelled.
Miss I received a claim from TP for damage to his car and personal injuries. Admiral said it 
would deal with the claim in spite of the policy having been cancelled. Miss I signed an 
agreement authorising Admiral to take over and conduct the claim, and agreeing to pay any 
settlement it made on her behalf, including costs.
Miss I and TP each blamed the other for the accident. The damage to the cars was 
inconclusive. There had been an independent witness, but Miss I didnt have their details. 
Without favourable evidence from the witness or from a police report, Admiral said Miss Is 
case wasnt sufficiently strong to take to a trial. Admiral applied for a police report and said it 
would try to track down the witness through their car registration and motor insurance.
The claim proceeded until in February Miss I told Admiral she had received a court 
summons from TP. Miss I said she wanted to go for the cheapest option. Admiral hadnt 
heard from the police or the witness. It said as things stood it wouldnt take the case to trial. 
It would instruct solicitors to deal with the claim and hope it received the police report and 
witness statement. If not, it would pay TPs claim to reduce its costs.
On 11 March 2019, Miss I contacted Admiral to say she was worried a judgement would be 
entered against her. If this happened she feared she would lose her job. She asked Admiral 
to settle the claim as soon as possible. Admiral said it would do so. It contacted its solicitors 
and instructed them to settle on the best terms they could.
Miss I was upset that she continued to receive court documents and pressed Admiral to 
settle the claim. Admiral paid TPs personal injury claim on 4 April 2019, and the rest of TPs 
damages and costs on 12 April 2019.
On 18 April 2019, Admiral received the independent witnesss statement, which said TP was 
entirely responsible for the collision, and Miss I was blameless. Admiral thought it was too 
late for it to recover the money it had paid. It said it had settled TPs claim at Miss Is 
insistence, and earlier than it would normally have done. So it looked to her to indemnify it as 
she had agreed.
Miss I said Admiral should have done more once the witness statement appeared to stop or 
recover the payments it had made. As it hadnt, it shouldnt now look to her to repay it. 
Admiral didnt agree, so she complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had given Miss I the best advice it could with the information it had at the time. It didnt know 
the witness statement would become available, or what it would say. The investigator 
thought once Admiral had agreed with TP and his insurer to settle the claim it couldnt undo 
this and stop the payment.
Miss I didnt find out about the witness statement until some time after it had arrived and the 
claim had been settled and paid. The investigator agreed Admiral could have told her about 
this sooner, but said it wouldnt have made any difference because the settlement had 
already happened. He thought Admiral was entitled to look to Miss I to repay it what it had 
paid out in accordance with the indemnity she had signed.
Miss I responded to say, in summary, that:
Admiral failed to keep her updated while the claim was proceeding, which caused her 
stress; and
as she was Admirals customer, and was paying the claim, it should have done more 
to stop or recover payment from TP once the witness statement appeared.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this was a stressful time for Miss I, and that she feels Admiral didnt do 
enough to keep her updated and she had to chase Admiral to find out what was happening. 
However, such claims do proceed at a slow pace, and often there isnt anything new to 
report. I have looked at Admirals file and think that, on balance, it took reasonable steps to 
maintain contact, and keep her informed with what was happening. 
I can see from Admirals file that on the same day it received the witness statement it 
contacted its solicitors and asked if it could ask for its money back from TP. The advice it 
received was that it couldnt. The only possibility was for separate legal proceedings to be 
started against TP, which Miss I would have to pay for, and there was no guarantee that 
these would succeed in recovering the money. 
Like the investigator, I think the advice Admiral gave Miss I on the chances of her 
succeeding in the claim, on the basis of the information it then had, was entirely reasonable. 
It proceeded to settle quickly with TP at her insistence before the witness statement became 
available. By the time the statement did appear, it was too late for Admiral to stop or recover 
the payments it had made.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman