DRN-3805441
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice Zurich Assurance Ltd gave to transfer the benefits from his 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr M to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading I will refer to their comments as being Mr Ms.
What happened
Provisional decision 
On 25 October 2022 I issued a provisional decision and invited Zurich and Mr M to comment 
on it. For ease of reference I've copied the relevant extracts from that provisional decision 
below. 
What happened
Mr M was a deferred member of his previous employers DB scheme. He stopped 
working for that employer in 1988. In 1991 Mr M spoke with an adviser to discuss his 
pensions and retirement provisions. At the time of the advice, the adviser was working 
for a different firm, but as that firm is now part of Zurich, I will only refer to Zurich in this 
decision.
.
Zurich completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances. 
Amongst other things it recorded that:
Mr M was 30 and single.
He was employed earning £17,500 a year.
He had regular outgoings, including his mortgage repayment, of around 
£1,090 a month.
He was making payments into a personal pension of £50 a month.
His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value of £8,961, which would 
pay him a lump sum at age 60 of £4,354 together with a yearly income of 
£1,451.
He had a medium level attitude to risk.
Zurich noted that its recommendation was to:
Transfer [Mr Ms DB scheme benefits] into DBT [a named personal pension] to 
improve prospective retirement benefits through investment. Informed client that it is 
possible to transfer into present PP [personal pension]. Client wishes to leave TV 
[transfer value] separate.
In 2021, around three months before his 60th birthday, Mr M approached his former 
employer about claiming his DB pension. His former employer told him that he had 
previously transferred his benefits to another pension and as such had no entitlement to 
his DB benefits.
Mr M complained to Zurich. Amongst other things he said
Zurichs advice was negligent as the pension transfer wasnt suitable for him 
and not in his best interests..
Zurich didnt make clear that a personal pension would have to grow 
significantly In order to match the benefits of his DB scheme.
He was an inexperienced investor and Zurich didnt advise him of the 
guaranteed benefits he would lose by transferring out of the DB scheme.
The DB scheme had guaranteed death benefits that were lost when he transferred.
The personal pension was subject to fees whereas the DB scheme wasnt.
Zurich didnt comply with its regulatory duty.
Zurich replied. It said it had invited Mr M to take part in an industry-wide review of 
potential mis-selling of pensions in 1999 but Mr M hadn't replied. It said that as a result 
Mr M was outside of the applicable time-limits to bring his complaint.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. He explained that by 1999 he had moved house and 
didnt receive Zurichs letters inviting him to take part in the pensions review. Zurich 
objected to us looking into the complaint on the basis that Mr M had brought it out of time. 
One of my colleagues issued a decision explaining why Mr Ms complaint wasnt out of 
time.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He initially upheld it. But after 
further review he said he wasnt upholding it. He said that, if Zurich had conducted a 
review of Mr Ms pension in 1999, given the high projected growth rates for investments 
in 1991, Zurich would have concluded that Mr M hadn't suffered a loss.
Mr M disagreed. Amongst other things he said that we had upheld other complaints 
with similar circumstances.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
At the time of the advice the regulator was the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory 
Organisation (LAUTRO). Its code of conduct said advisers should not advise customers to 
convert, cancel or allow to lapse any occupational pension, unless they genuinely believed it
to be in the consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages of doing so. LAUTROs rules also required firms to keep records to show their 
compliance with the regulatory requirements.The pensions review
In 1994, the Regulator at the time established an industry-wide review of particular pension 
business carried out by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was 
generally known as the "Pensions Review. The intention was for the advising firms 
concerned to invite affected consumers to take part in the review.
Mr M didnt receive Zurichs invitation for it to review the sale of his pension in 1991. But 
Zurich wasn't aware of that, so the opportunity to review his pension at that time was lost. 
That means that Zurich didnt carry out a review of the sale or a loss assessment based on 
the assumptions at the time. So, I will look at the suitability of its advice by considering its 
requirement to act in Mr Ms best interests at the time.
Was Zurichs advice in Mr Ms best interest?
At the time of the advice Zurich should only have advised Mr M to transfer his pension if it 
genuinely believed it was in his best interest to do so. And, in explaining the reasons for its 
recommendation Zurich was required to clearly disclose the advantages and disadvantages 
of doing so. It was also required to keep records showing that it had met its regulatory 
requirements.
The documents Zurich has provided are brief. From what it has shown us its apparent that it 
carried out a fact find of Mr Ms circumstances and gathered details of his DB scheme 
pension entitlement. It appears that Zurich recommended Mr M transfer out of his DB 
scheme in order to improve on the benefits he wouldve been entitled to. But Zurichs 
provided no evidence of any analysis of the benefits Mr M would be giving up compared to 
what he stood to gain from the recommended transfer to a personal pension. While Im 
aware of the level of growth that Mr M could reasonably have expected at the time of the 
advice, theres no evidence to demonstrate whether that level of growth wouldve been 
sufficient for Mr M to have exceeded the level of income his DB scheme wouldve provided 
at retirement. So, for this reason alone, I dont think the evidence supports the transfer was 
in Mr Ms best interest.
Furthermore, Zurich hasn't shown that it made it clear to Mr M what the advantages or 
disadvantages were of him transferring. And theres no evidence it pointed out that by 
transferring out of his DB scheme he would be giving up a guaranteed and index linked 
income in retirement and instead would be investing in a product that was subject to 
investment risk and the volatility of the financial markets. So I'm not satisfied that Zurich did 
all it needed to do to ensure that Mr M was aware of the consequences and disadvantages 
of transferring out of the DB scheme. It follows that I dont think Zurich gave Mr M all the 
information he needed in order to make an informed choice about whether or not he wanted 
to transfer out of the scheme.
Of course its possible that if Zurich had given Mr M all the appropriate information he 
needed in order to make an informed choice he might have decided to transfer. But based 
on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair for me to second guess, even on the 
balance of probabilities, what decision Mr M would have come to if Zurich had given him all 
the appropriate information. And as it didnt give him enough information to make a fully 
informed decision I'm satisfied that its advice was not in Mr Ms best interest. And but for that 
advice its likely he would not have transferred out of his DB scheme. So I think Zurich should 
compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension 
transfer redress methodology.Neither Zurich nor Mr M made any substantive comments concerning my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Zurich nor Mr M objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change it.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Zurich to put Mr M, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Zurichs unsuitable advice.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress 
guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 
27 September 2022 with any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress 
methodology in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers remains appropriate and fundamental 
changes are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the 
FCA considers it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to 
provide appropriate redress.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation 
to their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes 
place. But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for 
their compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may 
come into force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG 17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss 
is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. Zurich must therefore undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the guidance in FG 17/9.
For clarity, I'm aware that Mr M had intended to take his benefits from his DB scheme at 
the schemes normal retirement age of 60. So, Zurich should base the compensation on 
that normal retirement age of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of this decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of my final 
decision.
Zurich may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be 
paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This 
amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Zurich receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% a year simple from the date of my final decision 
to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Zurich to pay 
Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. So any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new 
guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect Zurich to carry out a calculation in line with 
the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that Zurich pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Assurance 
Ltd to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally 
require Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only 
require Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend 
that Zurich Assurance Ltd pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Zurich. 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman