DRN-3883984
The complaint
Mr W has complained on behalf of himself and the estate of the late Mrs W, about the 
amount of compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc paid for the mis-sale of a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr W complained about the sale of PPI on his and the late Mrs Ws mortgage.
HSBC agreed the PPI had been mis-sold and agreed to pay £140.67 to Mr W twice  once 
for his share and once for the late Mrs Ws share. So the compensation totalled £281.34.
Mr W felt the amount seemed too small and asked our service to look into it.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and found that HSBC had offered fair 
compensation.
Mr W didnt agree. He pointed out an oddity in the dates HSBC had provided, and said 
theyd never paid out Mrs Ws share. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr W and HSBC a provisional decision on 23 November 2022, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think HSBC have resolved the mis-sale of this PPI policy 
fairly  Ill explain why.
When a business has mis-sold PPI, we expect them to put their customer in the financial 
position theyd be in now if theyd never had the policy  as far as its reasonably possible to 
do that.
For a policy like Mr and Mrs Ws, that means refunding the premiums they paid for PPI, plus 
8% simple interest as compensation for the time they were out of pocket. And I can see 
thats what HSBC did here.
Mr W mentioned wanting a refund of the PPIs interest. To clarify, this policy did not run up 
any compound interest  it was paid separately to the mortgage itself and was not added 
onto the borrowing. So theres no compound interest to refund. The simple interest that 
HSBC added, on the other hand, is just a form of compensation for the months where Mr 
and Mrs W were out of pocket.
Neither side still had the paperwork for the policy, which is completely understandable given 
that it was sold over two and a half decades ago. The only remaining records of the PPI 
were the insurers electronic records. So I think its fair that HSBC relied on those.
The insurers records showed that Mr and Mrs W paid a total of £104.40 for PPI over the life 
of this policy. Mr W pointed out that this seemed small, and I understand where hes coming 
from. It may seem small, but thats because the records show that Mr and Mrs W did not 
renew the policy past the first year. So it only ran for a relatively short time.
Mr W also pointed out that HSBC said the policy only ran for 16 days, which couldnt be the 
case. I agree, but this appears to just be a mistake in what HSBC wrote on the letter. HSBC 
still refunded all of the premiums plus simple compensatory interest.
Lastly, Mr W asked how HSBC could have paid Mrs Ws share to her, given that she 
unfortunately passed away some years ago. And again, I understand where hes coming 
from. To clarify, I can see from HSBCs records that they paid Mrs Ws share to Mr W, in 
addition to his own share. If Mr W checks his statements for his NatWest account, he should 
find that he received two payments for £140.67 around 29 November 2021, rather than just 
the one payment. Both payments should have the reference HSBC Redress. If Mr W cant 
find these entries, then please could he send a copy of his November and December 2021 
statements to us before the deadline, and Ill have a look at this for him.
But at the moment, as far as I can see HSBC have already paid out the appropriate amount 
to put right the mis-sale of this PPI policy.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to send me  so long as I received it by 
21 December 2022. Ill talk about what both sides said below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the provisional decision, Mr W reiterated that he hadnt received the second 
payment of £140.67, so we checked this with NatWest, who confirmed he had not.
We raised this with HSBC, who have agreed to pay the missing payment, plus some extra to 
compensate Mr W for the extra time it took to get this to him. This will come to £169.37 in 
total. I think this is a fair way to resolve that issue.
Mr W raised further doubts around the total amount of premiums paid, and suggested going 
to the insurer. To clarify, the records of the premiums that Mr and Mrs W paid are from the 
insurer. The insurer were clear that Mr and Mrs W paid £104.40 in total.
Mr W questioned how Mr and Mrs W could have not renewed the policy if they didnt know 
about it. I dont know whether they did or didnt know about it at the time  its quite plausible 
that they did know about the PPI back in 1996, and its just that Mr W understandably no 
longer remembers it over two and a half decades later. In any case, the fact remains that the 
records show the policy was not renewed past its first year. Mr and Mrs W did not pay any 
premiums past that point, so theres nothing for HSBC to refund there. I cannot fairly tell 
HSBC to refund premiums which by all accounts Mr and Mrs W never paid.Mr W felt it was convenient that HSBC didnt still have the original documentation. But its 
both understandable and unsurprising that HSBC dont still have that, given that the policy 
was from over two and a half decades ago, and banks are only required to keep such data 
for about six years. Indeed, under data protection rules, HSBC were required to dispose of 
old data rather than hold onto it for too long. I find that it was reasonable to rely on the 
records that the insurer provided.
Mr W questioned why wed let HSBC get away with the mistake in their letter. But were not 
here to punish or fine businesses. We only award compensation when a business gets 
something substantially wrong which has a substantial impact on their customer. For 
example, thats why we expected HSBC to pay compensation for mis-selling the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs W here. But I do not see that the mistake in HSBCs letter had any significant 
impact on Mr or Mrs W, so I cant reasonably award compensation for that.
Mr W pointed out that it was HSBC who contacted him in the first place. But while I am 
grateful for Mr Ws comments on this, Im afraid I do not find it to be relevant to whether they 
offered him a correct refund or not.
Lastly, Mr W suggested that HSBC should prove he signed separately for the PPI. But Im 
afraid thats also not relevant at this stage. That would only be a relevant consideration in 
deciding whether the PPI was mis-sold or not  and HSBC have already accepted it was 
mis-sold and agreed to refund it.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive broadly come to the same conclusions as before. The 
only difference from my provisional decision is that I think HSBC should pay Mr W the 
missing share of redress, including some compensation for the extra time it took. This will 
come to £169.37.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr W £169.37. I do not 
make any further award.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman