DRN-1471698
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Covea Insurance plc has declined a claim they made on 
their home insurance policy for theft of a watch away from their home.
Background
Both Mr and Mrs D are named policy holders on the insurance policy provided by Covea  
so any claim or complaint is brought by them both. But as the complaint surrounds the loss 
of one of Mr Ds items, and has been brought primarily by him, Ill refer only to Mr D from 
here onward.
Mr D has brought his complaint to our service through a representative. But Ill refer only to 
Mr D by name in this decision, even when referring to arguments put forward by his 
representative.
In 2016 Mr D added a watch to his home insurance policy as a specified item. Covea 
accepted the additional risk, subject to an increased premium and two endorsements. One 
of these endorsements is a personal custody clause which states:
We will not pay for any loss of or damage to the property insured by item 1.11.02 of 
Section 1 - Contents, Art and Jewellery unless, at the time of the loss or damage, the 
item is
damaged by fire, or
contained in a locked safe or bank safe deposit, or
being worn or carried under your personal supervision and control, or
in a room in which you are present within a private dwelling, or
in a hotel bedroom that is occupied by you. 
In June 2019 Mr D left the watch in a locked glove compartment of his car while entering a 
supermarket. His car, and the watch within it, were stolen, so Mr D made a claim with Covea 
under his policy. Covea declined the claim as it said Mr D hadnt complied with the above 
endorsement.
Mr D says he was taking the watch to a jeweller to have the strap repaired  so at the time 
he entered the supermarket it couldnt be worn. He argues he took a sensible precaution by 
securing it in a locked glove box. So, he doesnt agree its fair for Covea to decline cover. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr D's complaint. She didn't think Covea had acted 
unfairly in declining Mr Ds claim as he hadnt adhered to the endorsement on his policy. She 
said although the watch couldnt be worn, there was no reason it couldnt be carried in 
Mr Ds pocket or in his bag, which would have complied with the endorsement.
Mr D didn't accept our investigator's opinion. He said carrying the watch in his pocket or a 
bag would arguably have meant it was more at risk of being lost or stolen, than while locked in the glove box of his car. Mr D said that his policy provided cover up to a certain amount for 
non-specified jewellery. So, he thought a fair compromise would be for Covea to consider 
paying him that amount, as he had clearly acted in good faith and tried to protect his watch.
Covea didnt agree to this. It said an unattended vehicle is at higher risk of theft than a watch 
carried on the person. Covea said that it expects higher levels of security to be applied to 
items above its specified items limit  which is why it adds the endorsement. It says it only 
agrees to cover specified items at all, on that basis. So, it wont consider settling the claim up 
to the unspecified item limit.
Our investigator considered these points, but her view remained unchanged. So, because no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Mr Ds watch has been stolen, or that his policy provides cover for 
this, under certain circumstances. What remains for me to decide is whether Coveas 
decision to decline Mr Ds claim is in line with the terms and conditions of his policy, and 
whether I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr Ds argument that the watch strap was broken, and so it couldnt be worn. 
And I believe him when he says he thought locking the watch in the glove box of his car 
would keep it safe. But just because Mr D thought he was taking a suitable precaution 
doesnt mean it would be fair to expect Covea to provide cover for the loss. This is because 
the endorsement doesnt cover Mr Ds intentions, but rather his actions.
Covea has stated that it only agreed to take on the additional risk of the watch in certain 
circumstances. It has pointed out that the endorsement clearly states that it will not pay for 
any loss unless the stipulations of the endorsements are complied with. The endorsement is 
designed to reduce the level of risk Covea is exposed to when insuring a high value item like 
Mr Ds. And Covea argues that an item left in an unattended vehicle, even one that is locked 
and alarmed, is at a higher risk of theft than when carried on the person.
Insurance is designed to transfer risk from one party to another, subject to agreement on 
certain conditions. In this case Covea only agreed to accept the risk if Mr D kept the watch 
on his person, in a locked safe or in a room that he was physically in. Covea is entitled to 
decide which risks it is prepared to accept and which it isnt, and Mr D agreed to comply with 
the endorsement by accepting cover. 
Covea only agreed to cover the risk associated with a watch of this value, at all, if the 
endorsement was complied with. Leaving the watch in a locked glove box of a locked car, 
while more secure than an unlocked glove box or car, doesnt meet the requirements of the 
endorsement. So, in these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to expect Covea to 
cover the specified value of the watch, or to retrospectively expect it to provide a different 
level of cover. 
Ultimately, I think Coveas decision to decline the claim in full is in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. I also dont think Coveas decision is unfair or unreasonable, 
considering all the circumstances. 
My final decisionFor the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr and Mrs D's complaint about Covea 
Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Adam Golding
Ombudsman