DRN-3332290
The complaint
Ms W complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
rejected a cheque payment. 
What happened
Ms W opened an account with RBS in March 2021. On 18 May 
2021 a transfer for £20,000 was paid into the account.  On the 
same day, Ms W sent a cheque for £20,000 to a business with 
the intention of buying shares. The cheque was submitted for 
processing and picked up by RBS for further checks. On 24 
May 2021 RBS called Ms W but was unable to verify the 
cheque was genuine. Ms W has explained she was unable to 
speak with RBS when it called as she was at the dentist. 
As RBS didnt confirm the cheque was genuine it was 
cancelled. 
Ms W has told us she travelled to a branch the following day to 
try and find out what had occurred. Ms W sent a new cheque 
which was the successfully paid. 
Ms W complained and asked RBS to compensate the costs she 
incurred when visiting the branch. Ms W also wanted a letter 
from the branch manager. RBS didnt go on to offer Ms W any 
compensation or agree it had acted unfairly. 
An investigator at this service considered Ms Ws complaint but 
didnt think RBS had made mistakes when processing the 
cheque and didnt ask RBS to do anything else. Ms W asked to 
appeal, 
so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in 
far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own 
words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by 
all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
In Ms Ws submissions shes pointed out there was enough 
money available in her account to pay the cheque. I agree 
thats the case. But RBS didnt stop the cheque due to 
insufficient funds. RBS account terms and conditions allow it to 
decline an instruction by a customer if it reasonably suspects 
fraud. In this case, RBS has pointed out the account had only 
been open for around two months and that the cheque for 
£20,000 was the first Ms W had issued. RBS says the size of 
the cheque and the fact no others had been issue flagged the 
payment for further checks. 
I understand Ms W feels RBS shouldve honoured the cheque 
when it was presented for payment, but Im satisfied there were 
reasonable grounds for it to contact Ms W and check the details 
with her. RBS contacted Ms W on 24 May 2021 and asked her to 
respond by 2pm. Ms W had explained that only gave around 
two and a half hours for her to respond and has questioned 
why the time limit was so short. RBS has explained that due to 
the way cheques are processed and cleared theres only a 
limited window when it can carry out further enquiries. RBS has 
confirmed 2pm on 24 May 2021 was the latest it could leave 
the query open before taking the decision to either approve or 
decline the cheque payment. 
I understand Ms Ws view that she wasnt given enough time to 
respond. And I accept Ms W wasnt able to take the call on 24 
May 2021. But I have to balance the inconvenience caused by 
RBS decision to decline the cheque against its obligation to 
protect customer accounts. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms W but Im satisfied RBS had to 
confirm the payment was genuine by 2pm on 24 May 2021 in 
order to process it. As it wasnt able to confirm the cheque 
details with Ms W by that time, Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for it to refuse to pay the cheque. 
Ms W has asked for a letter from the branch manager in 
response to the letters she sent. But Im satisfied RBS has 
responded to Ms W and shes aware of the circumstances that 
surround the cheque payment. As Im satisfied RBS has 
explained the reasons behind the decision to decline the 
cheque payment and havent found it made errors or treated 
Ms W unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman