DRN-4439187
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around July 2018, Mr D was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr D decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 2-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In May 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ds behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr D to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayment costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr D or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for delays in 
complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had led Mr D to 
believe the system would be immediately self-funding. 
But he did think the system had underperformed compared to Ps estimates from the point of 
sale. So, he felt this aspect of the complaint should be upheld. The investigator felt that 
Shawbrook should inspect and repair the system. He also felt Shawbrook should 
compensate Mr D for the period the system underperformed. 
Mr D, (through the CMC), said he agreed with the investigators view of the complaint, but 
reserved the right to check the compensation payment had been correctly worked out. 
Shawbrook initially didnt agree to our investigators view of the complaint but on review of 
the case, it agreed to the investigators view of the complaint. It inspected the system and 
carried out a repair. It also offered compensation in line with our investigators view of the 
complaint. 
Details of the offer was sent to Mr D (through the CMC), but we have not received a 
response. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 16 October 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Shawbrook replied asking for updated FIT information so it 
could do an updated calculation. I can see the CMC has sent this through. Neither party 
have made any additional comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr D could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr D and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr D says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these, along with the 
consumers testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is 
most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The cost of the system 
Im satisfied that Mr D was told that the cost of the system was £7,895. The quote and credit 
agreement set this out clearly. The total amount of credit is £5,895 (after deducting a deposit 
of £2,000) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £7,894.88. Mr D 
appears to have been given an interest free loan. His monthly payment is £245.62. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the credit agreement is clear and sets out exactly how much Mr D 
would be paying for the system overall as well as monthly. 
Self-funding 
Mr D has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. 
The what will you earn and save per year? Section of the quote sets out the estimated 
income Mr D could expect to receive by way of FIT payments and savings on energy bills 
from the system. 
I think its clear that Mr D could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of £176.78, 
which results in an average monthly income of £14.73. The expected year one electricity 
savings is £315.17 and, when taking into account the optional extras shown on the quote, 
the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £692.71.
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement set out that there would be a 
monthly loan repayment due of £245.62 (which is £2,947.44 annually). As a result, Im not 
able to conclude that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Finance repayments with three table showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. These are the terms of the loan that is usually 
offered to consumers  although as stated above, I can see Mr D appears to have taken a 
much shorter loan period based on his own preferences. 
But I still think the way the cost in relation to the benefits is set out in the quote is useful in 
ascertaining whether its likely he was told the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
Ive looked at the table for 60 months as this is the shortest length of the loan set out in the 
quote. This table shows the loan as repayable in 60 monthly payments of £118.40 and I 
think Mr D was fully aware that his monthly payments were higher than that. 
The table does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to receive by way of 
FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments over a 5-year period. So, I think it is apparent that the benefit 
provided by the system wouldnt cover the monthly loan payments of around £118. And 
therefore, it would have been apparent that it certainly wouldnt cover the payments of £245 
which is more than double the amount shown in the quote. 
Im satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting. So, I dont think I can reasonably 
find that he was told that his monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income 
and savings on energy bills.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Self-funding over a period of time 
That said, I do accept that Mr D was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The what will you earn & save per year? page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 10 the overall benefits that Mr D could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr D that the system would pay for itself by 
year 10, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think partly explains why he may 
not have been receiving the financial returns he may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr D couldve expected to receive 
from the system. Im not persuaded that the way in which the estimates were calculated was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr D entered into the 
contract, so I dont think this is sufficient for me to uphold the complaint on this basis.
I would add that, given the current increase in utility prices most consumers are now subject 
to, it may be that the system will be self-funding over a period of 10 years and the estimates 
may yet still materialise. So, overall, I dont think I have enough here, to make a finding that 
the estimates regarding the benefits the system will produce over the lifetime of the system 
amount to a misrepresentation. 
This then leads me to consider the performance of the system in terms of energy generated. 
Underperformance 
So, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract between P and Mr D. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2698.95 kWh a year. And the benefits shown in the quote were 
calculated based on that level of generation.
I have looked at Mr Ds FIT statements and meter readings, and can see that the system, on 
average, has generated 2260.61 kWh. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system hasnt performed as expected.
In the above assessment, I have taken into account that the meter was replaced on 29 
March 2019, and at that point, the system had generated 2,359.3 kWh. But even including 
this amount of energy, the system has overall still significantly underperformed. Shawbrook 
appears to accept this and has agreed to put things right as suggested by our investigator. 
Our investigator recommended Shawbrook should: 
Inspect and repair the system.
Compensate Mr D for the period of underperformance by giving him the difference 
between what the system has generated and what it ought to have generated in line 
with the sales documents. Shawbrook was also expected to add 8% interest onto this 
amount. 
Pay Mr D compensation of £300 for the inconvenience and upset caused (including 
the £200 previously offered by Shawbrook.) Shawbrook has since inspected the system and carried out a repair. The report prepared by 
the engineer says. 
So, it looks like the system has been repaired. 
Shawbrook says it has also calculated the compensation in line with our investigators 
recommendation and Ive seen nothing to suggest it hasnt been worked out correctly. 
So, while Im satisfied that the system was faulty and Mr D suffered a loss because of this, 
Im satisfied that Shawbrooks offer to put things right is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And I dont intend to ask it to do anymore. 
Summary 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that the system wasnt mis-represented to Mr D on the basis that it would be 
immediately self-funding. Im also satisfied that the assumptions used to estimate the 
benefits during the lifetime of the system were also reasonable even if such estimates may 
not have come to fruition. So, I dont uphold his complaint on this basis. 
However, I do think the system installed was faulty, and hasnt generated the amount of 
power it should have so Shawbrook should put this right. It appears all parties are now in 
agreement with this. And I think the offer made by Shawbrook now is fair and reasonable 
and I dont plan to ask it to do anymore. 
Putting things right
For the avoidance of any doubt, Shawbrook is expected to work out the following and pay 
this to Mr D:
1. From the date of installation until the date the repair was carried out:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mr D and what the sales paperwork set out as 
being the annual total income savings, 
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mr D
2. I can see Shawbrook has also now offered £300 compensation in total for the trouble 
and upset caused and I think thats a fair offer and Shawbrook should pay this to 
Mr D.
3. Shawbrook has already inspected and repaired the system so at this stage I dont 
think it needs to do anymore. 
Shawbrook has asked for updated FIT information to enable it to carry out another redress 
offer in line with my provisional decision. The CMC has sent these in which have been 
forwarded to Shawbrook. As neither party have made any other comments, I find no reason 
to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons 
set out above, I uphold the complaint.  
Putting things right
Shawbrook must work out the following and pay this to Mr D:
1. From the date of installation until the date the repair was carried out:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mr D and what the sales paperwork set out as 
being the annual total income savings, 
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mr D
2. Shawbrook has also now offered £300 compensation in total for the trouble and 
upset caused and I think thats a fair offer and Shawbrook should pay this to Mr D.
3. Shawbrook has already inspected and repaired the system, so I dont think it needs 
to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman