DRN-2938326
The complaint
Mr W complains about a number of payments made out of his Barclay Bank UK PLC 
account which he says he didnt agree to, and about the customer service he received when 
trying to dispute these payments.
What happened
Mr W says he signed up to a free trial on a social media app but the app took a payment 
from his account he hadnt agreed to. Mr W called Barclays and was told the app couldnt 
take any further payments. But the app then took a number of further payments of increasing 
amounts from his account over the following months.
Mr W made a number of calls to Barclays during this time, but Barclays couldnt offer a 
solution he was happy with. So Mr W complained both about the payments and about the 
service hed received. Barclays investigated the complaint and accepted it had given him 
incorrect information about how to dispute the payments and that there had been delays in 
its response. It offered him a total of £275 compensation. Mr W wasnt happy with Barclays 
response so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt the compensation Barclays has 
offered was a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint. Mr W disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W hasnt been able to give us any details about the app he signed up for the trial on, so I 
cant see whether or not he did agree to any payments being taken from his account.
Barclays has sent us a number of recordings of calls between it and Mr W. I understand from 
Mr W that there may be further calls that Barclays doesnt have copies of, but Ive listened to 
all the calls that are available which total a significant number of hours. And from these calls, 
I think its likely Mr W was told the initial payment the app took from his account wasnt a 
recurring payment and so it was reasonable for him to understand that the app couldnt take 
any further payments.
While what Barclays told Mr W about the initial payment not being a recurring payment was 
correct, I do think it could have done more to explain to him the circumstances under which 
further payments could be taken  as it seems clear from the calls that Mr W wasnt aware of 
this.
I also think, and Barclays has accepted, that it should have given Mr W the option to dispute 
the payments via a chargeback rather than just to raise a fraud claim. The chargeback 
process allows customers to dispute payments with the merchant who took them, in this 
case the social media app. But its not guaranteed to be successful. And as we dont know 
any details about the app or the trial Mr W signed up for, I cant say whether a chargeback 
wouldve been likely to succeed I dont think it would be fair to say he wouldve got the 
payments back if a chargeback had been done.
From listening to the calls, several of the people Mr W speaks to offer to cancel his card and 
send him a new one so that no further payments can be taken. I understand Mr W was living 
abroad at the time and so didnt want to cancel his card as he didnt know how long the new 
one would take to arrive. But I do think this was a reasonable suggestion for Barclays to 
make to resolve the situation, and I cant see what more it could reasonably have been 
expected to do to stop the further payments.
Mr W clearly spent a significant amount of time on the phone with Barclays. I think several of 
the people he spoke to were abrupt or dismissive, or could have done more to try to help 
him. It also appears several calls he made were cut-off and he didnt receive call-backs 
when he was told he would. So the customer service Mr W received when trying to dispute 
the payments wasnt of a reasonable standard. And I think this will have caused him distress 
and inconvenience.
As I said above, I dont think it would be fair to say Mr W wouldve got the payments back if a 
chargeback had been done. But I do think missing out on the chance to do a chargeback for 
the payments also caused Mr W distress and inconvenience.
Barclays has offered Mr W a total of £275 compensation. This is more than the total amount 
of the payments taken by the social media app. And, taking into account everything thats 
happened and the impact its had on Mr W, I think this is also fair and reasonable 
compensation for Mr W missing out on the chance to chargeback the payments and by 
Barclays poor customer service. I think this amount appropriately compensates Mr W for the 
distress and inconvenience hes been caused and is in line with the range of awards our 
service makes for this kind of distress and inconvenience.
I appreciate how Mr W feels about this case, but I dont think it would be fair to require 
Barclays to pay a higher amount of compensation than this.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £275 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay Mr W £275, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman