DRN-1994660
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) incorrectly reported adverse 
information on his credit file after it failed to stop applying charges to his current account.
 
What happened
Mr R was made bankrupt on 27 October 2017 and discharged a year later. Despite being 
made bankrupt, Halifax failed to close his account and continued to apply the monthly 
account fee which meant the balance became overdrawn. Information about the overdrawn 
account was reported on Mr Rs credit file between November 2017 and June 2019. 
Mr R complained and Halifax agreed it had made a mistake. Halifax refunded the £86.02 
balance that had been accrued and took steps to amend the information it had reported on 
Mr Rs credit file. Halifax also paid Mr R £100 and apologised. 
Mr R referred his concerns to our service and has told us his credit score dropped 
substantially due to Halifaxs actions. In addition, Mr R says Halifaxs actions impacted the 
recovery of his credit score over an extended period. An investigator looked at Mr Rs 
complaint and thought Halifax had dealt with it fairly. The investigator didnt ask Halifax to do 
anything else. Mr R asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Halifax incorrectly reported Mr Rs account status on his credit file after 
he was made bankrupt. Halifax has apologised for its error, paid Mr R £100 in recognition of 
the distress it caused and correct the information it reported. Mr R has told us he doesnt feel 
the settlement is fair. 
Our role isnt to fine or punish a business for making a mistake. We would normally expect a 
business to correct any error that had been made and award a settlement that fairly reflects 
the impact of the issues raised on the consumer. Ive thought carefully about how Mr R says 
Halifaxs error has impacted him. 
Mr R says that after being made bankrupt and subsequently discharged hes worked hard to 
improve his credit score. Mr R has shown that, when Halifax corrected its error, his credit 
score went up. Whilst I accept Halifax did incorrectly report information that impacted Mr Rs 
credit file, I think its important to note his bankruptcy is also reported. A bankruptcy will 
generally have a greater impact on a consumers ability to secure credit than the overdrawn 
account information Halifax reported. 
Mr R hasnt given any examples of a financial loss caused by Halifaxs error. And he hasnt 
provided any details of credit that was declined during the period in question. I havent seen 
any evidence to show Halifaxs error led to a financial loss for Mr R. 
I understand Mr R has worked hard to improve his credit score and that the information 
Halifax reported was very frustrating. But Im not persuaded that the adverse information 
Halifax reported has led to a loss or that the impact of the information would have been 
greater than the bankruptcy on Mr Rs credit file. 
Halifax has apologised, corrected the error and paid Mr R £100. Ive considered everything 
Mr R has told us about how the situation impacted him. Having done so, Im satisfied the 
£100 Halifax has paid is fair in all the circumstances. As Im satisfied Halifax has dealt with 
this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman