DRN-2965353
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have mishandled his legal expenses 
insurance claim.
Aviva use Arc Legal as an intermediary to administer their legal expenses policy on their 
behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of Arc Legal.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not set out everything 
again here. In summary, Mr S is unhappy with the way Aviva have handled his legal 
expenses claim. This includes, but is not strictly limited to:
He is unhappy with the panel solicitors instructed by Aviva. They have significant 
failings, misunderstood the claim and have also overcharged the insurer.
The legal advice provided by Avivas panel solicitors (whom Ill refer to as Firm L) 
was incorrect and inaccurate. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think Aviva had mishandled Mr Ss 
claim. Mr S disagreed, so his case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Time limits
Mr S has made several complaints to Aviva since he originally made his legal 
expenses claim back in 2017. They addressed several of his concerns in a final 
response issued on 21 February 2018. 
In this final response, Aviva addressed points such as the lack of updates Mr S was 
receiving on his claim, as well as his unhappiness with the negative prospects 
assessment that had been issued by the first panel solicitors Aviva had appointed 
(Firm I) in December 2017. 
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint and informed him of his right to refer the matter 
to this service within six months  that is by 21 August 2018. Mr S didnt refer his 
complaint to this service until 19 March 2020 and Aviva didnt consent to us looking 
into this part of his complaint as they said it had been made too late.
If a business doesnt consent, Im not allowed to consider a complaint which is 
referred to us more than six months after the date the final response letter is sent. 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1) can be found in the regulators' handbook of rules 
and guidance.
Given that Mr S did not refer his earlier complaint about Aviva to this service within 
six months of the date of the final response (21 February 2018) it has been referred 
too late and is out of time under the rules that apply.
I am, however, allowed to consider complaints made late where the failure to comply 
with the time limits was due to exceptional circumstances. But Mr S has not made us 
aware of any exceptional reasons why this complaint wasnt referred before the six-
month deadline.
Therefore, I cannot consider any of Mr Ss points of complaint that were addressed in 
Avivas February 2018 final response, but I can consider those raised in their later 
final response issued in February 2020 (the merits of which Ive addressed in the 
section below) as Mr S did refer this complaint within the six-month time limit. 
Merits
I note that several of the concerns Mr S has raised are to do with the quality of legal 
advice and the service hes received from panel solicitors and barristers that were 
instructed as part of his claim.
However, as the investigator has already pointed out, this service is unable to 
consider the quality of legal advice (unless its patently wrong) or the actions of legal 
professionals as this falls under the remit of the Legal Ombudsman. So I will not be 
commenting on any of these points within this decision, as Aviva are not responsible 
for the acts or omissions of independent legal professionals. Our role is to assess 
Avivas handling of the claim as the insurer, in light of the policy terms to determine 
whether theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably, and dealt with the claim fairly.  
The policy terms and conditions set out that Aviva will agree cover for a legal 
expenses claim so long as it has reasonable prospects of success, which will be 
determined by a lawyer. It goes on to say that if the lawyer is of the opinion that the 
claims prospects of success are not in the policyholders favour, Aviva will not pay 
any further costs and expenses towards it. 
In this instance, Aviva have been supportive in funding numerous legal opinions from 
both solicitors and barristers, including a direct access barrister found by Mr S in 
June 2018, a panel solicitor (Firm L) in January 2019, and more recently from an 
independent specialist legal advisor, who advised that Mr Ss claim had a less than 
40% chance of succeeding. 
I appreciate that Mr S doesnt agree with the legal assessments carried out on his 
claim. But as it stands, I havent seen that he had submitted a more favorable 
assessment  other than his own opinion  to show that his claim does have 
sufficient prospects of success. 
Generally, I consider it fair and reasonable for an insurer to rely on the advice of 
appropriately qualified professionals such as solicitors and barristers, unless there is 
anything to suggest that the legal advice provided was patently or obviously wrong 
(where even a lay person with no legal experience would be able to identify that it 
was incorrect, for example).
However, Ive seen nothing in this case that would suggest the recent legal 
assessments issued on Mr Ss claim (that advise it does not hold reasonable prospects of success) are patently wrong. So theres currently no basis on which to 
conclude that Aviva have acted unfairly by relying on the legal advice to withdraw any 
further funding. 
I appreciate that Mr S has a different opinion. But his own views on this matter 
cannot reasonably outweigh the assessment of qualified legal professionals such as 
solicitors and barristers. Indeed, even when a policyholder is himself legally qualified, 
he cannot act as an independent expert in his own cause.
Mr S says that the fact that his case was not struck out by the tribunal is an indication 
that the legal assessments/counsels advice provided on his claim were incorrect. But 
Im afraid this gives no indication that his claim would be successful. It just means 
that it can be heard by the tribunal, not that he will win his case.
Aviva have funded numerous legal assessments as a compromise when Mr S 
expressed his disagreement with them, despite there being no obligation on the 
insurer to do this (because any legal challenge in this regard typically has to be 
funded by the policyholder). Aviva have since provided Mr S with the option of a 
further legal challenge, but have said that he will now have to pay for it. And taking 
into account the costs they have already incurred in exploring the merits of Mr Ss 
legal claim, I do not consider this to be an unreasonable position for them to take.
So, given that the panel solicitors and counsel concluded that Mr Ss claim does not 
hold reasonable prospects of success  and given that he has not submitted any 
contrary legal opinion from his own solicitor to show otherwise  Im satisfied that 
Aviva have acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions by withdrawing any 
further funding. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, who understandably feels strongly 
about his claim. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Aviva have done anything 
wrong, so I will not be directing them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman