DRN-4210392
The complaint
Mr W has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc has delayed in taking corrective 
action after mistakenly linking his details with that of another account holder.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr W contacted Nat West after receiving arrears letters about missed 
repayments on a loan. Nat West told Mr W that he had been the victim of identify theft and 
that someone else had mirrored his personal details so that an outstanding loan account and 
current account would be linked to him. It undertook to disassociate his details from that of 
the other person and to contact the credit report agencies (CRAs) to ask for any adverse 
information to be removed.
Adverse information was still appearing on Mr Ws credit reports in July 2022 and he 
complained about being given confusing information. Nat West said it would contact the 
CRAs again and paid Mr W £50 for delay and lack of clarity in the explanations that had 
been provided.
Matters reached a head in August 2022 because Mr W desperately needed a loan to 
complete some building work at his home. However, he had several loan applications turned 
down due to issues with his credit history.
In its final response letter, Nat West confirmed that the issue was not the result of fraud. 
Instead, another customer with an almost identical name and the same date of birth as Mr 
W, had previously taken out a loan and had stopped making the repayments. During the 
collections process against the other person, it had mistakenly merged the customer details. 
As Nat West now accepted that it was its error, it paid Mr W an additional £750 
compensation.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I increased the compensation to a total of 
£2,500. Mr W responded with some additional comments that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nat West does not dispute that the problems Mr W has faced result from its error. In April 
2022 it undertook to carry out two tasks to resolve the matter. Firstly, the internal task of 
disassociating Mr Ws details from the other persons details. Secondly, the external task of 
contacting the CRAs to remove any adverse information that had been incorrectly attached 
to Mr Ws credit report.
Mr W was assured by Nat West in July 2022 that the first task had been completed. But this 
wasnt the case because Mr W received a statement for the other persons current account 
in August 2022. And in September 2022 he received two letters relating to the other person 
 one about the current account and one about the loan account.
Mr W was also assured in July 2022 that the CRAs had been contacted and that his credit 
file should have been amended by now and that there were no longer any financial links 
between him and the third party. Again, that wasnt the case as Mr W was able to see the 
adverse information was still present. Even after the third party accounts were removed from 
Mr Ws file, the third partys address was still showing as a link on one of the main CRAs. 
Nat West only mentioned the two main CRAs in its correspondence, but the adverse 
information was still showing on a third CRA. Problems continue to ensue because the third 
CRA then reset Mr Ws credit file so that it now shows virtually no information. 
Furthermore, Mr W is receiving contact from debt collectors. These talk about arranging a 
home visit and must therefore be quite worrying. These relate to a debt that the third party 
owes to another creditor but are the result Mr Ws details being linked with the third party by 
Nat West.
Mr W is having to spend time and effort sorting all of these issues out. And there are 
potentially other residual issues that might come to light. 
Theres no doubt that Mr Ws inability to get a loan was a direct result of the incorrect 
information on his credit file. This caused him great difficulty as he was unable to finance 
continuing building works on his house, leaving his property unfinished and unsecured for a 
time. Mr Ws wife was eventually able to get a loan and, as a last resort, they borrowed the 
rest of the funds from their elderly parents. However, this would have been a very difficult 
and stressful period for Mr W and his family.
When writing my provisional decision, I took into consideration what had happened, as well 
as the situation as it stands now. Mr W is still having trouble getting his data correctly 
restored by the third CRA. And, as mentioned above, there are potentially other residual 
issues that may come to light as a result of Nat Wests errors. So, increasing the 
compensation to a total of £2,500 was designed to take all of that into account.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr W has said that any amount of money is 
immaterial if the problem with his credit file isnt rectified. I completely appreciate his view 
and that hes in an uncertain situation currently. However, I think its necessary to draw a line 
under Nat Wests involvement and responsibilities.
Nat West asked the third CRA to amend the credit file by removing the adverse information. 
It did not ask the CRA to wipe the file. So, I cant hold Nat West responsible for the CRA 
failing to carry out its instructions correctly. I understand that Mr W is now pursuing a 
complaint directly against the CRA.
My decision remains that a more reasonable amount of compensation for the errors made by 
Nat West would be £2,500. So, it should pay Mr W a further £1,700 in addition to the £800 it 
has already paid him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and require 
National Westminster Bank Plc to pay an additional £1,700 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Carole ClarkOmbudsman