DRN-3662489
The complaint
Mr R complains that LEBC Group Limited didnt carry out an annual review of his 
investments.
What happened
Mr R held investments on a platform which were serviced by LEBC on a discretionary basis. 
Mr R says the annual review due during 2020 didnt take place.
LEBC says a review should have taken place in early 2020, but this didnt happen because 
of circumstances outside its control. It said it would refund the ongoing advice fees charged 
after September 2020 until Mr R ended his agreement in January 2021. But it said no fees 
were charged during this period.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that Mr R 
shouldnt be charged for the service he didnt receive. He thought LEBC should refund 50% 
of the fees Mr R paid from January to December 2020, plus compensation for the lost growth 
on the refund because the fee was taken from his portfolio.
LEBC didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
The review due in 2020 didnt happen due to the national lockdown and furlough of staff 
who would have co-ordinated the diary reviews.
Mr Rs review was not due until mid- 2020, so fees should be payable up until that date; 
all ongoing advisor charges ceased in September 2020, so no refund is due.
Mr Rs wife was invited to a review meeting, but she didnt see the invitations until March 
2021 when she checked her email spam folder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
The ongoing advisor fees covered the ongoing governance of Mr Rs investments and an 
annual review. The review due in 2020 didnt take place. So Mr R has paid for a service he 
didnt receive.
Whilst I accept the circumstances LEBC faced in 2020 would have made it difficult for it to 
provide continuity of service, Mr R was still paying it to provide the agreed service. I find he 
should reasonably have expected a review to be carried out in 2020.
The on-going advisor charge covers the various activities carried out by LEBC, including an 
annual review. I think the investigators recommendation to refund 50% of these charges is a 
fair and reasonable way of compensating Mr R. I dont think its unreasonable that the fees 
should be refunded from January 2020 to cover the lack of service Mr R received, and the 
resulting distress and inconvenience he was caused.
LEBC says no fees were charged after September 2020. But Mr R has provided evidence 
that the fees continued to be debited from his investment portfolio up to and including 
1 January 2021.
LEBC has provided us with information about the invitation it sent to Mr Rs wife about her 
review. But Mr Rs agreement was in his sole name and the communication between LEBC 
and his wife is not relevant to his complaint.
Putting things right
LEBC Group Limited should refund 50% of its monthly ongoing advisor fees from January 
2020 to January 2021 inclusive.
If the fees hadnt been charged from the portfolio, the money would have remained invested 
in line with the rest of the portfolio. LEBC Group Limited should compensate Mr R for the lost 
growth. It should calculate the amount his portfolio grew between the date each payment 
was taken, and the date he ended his agreement. LEBC should then pay him an amount 
equal to the combined lost growth on the 50% portion of the fees its refunding.
In addition, it should pay interest at 8% simple per annum - on the refund and the calculated 
lost growth - from the date Mr R ended his agreement until the date it makes the payment. *
LEBC Group Limited should provide Mr R with a copy of its compensation calculation.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires LEBC Group Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
LEBC Group Limited must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. LEBC Group Limited should pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman