DRN-2915026
The complaint
Miss O complains that AFL (Fleet Management) Ltd wrongly charged her £600 when she 
cancelled a personal contract hire agreement for a car. 
What happened
In December 2020 Miss O placed an order with AFL for a new car which she was to lease 
from it. The order note included details of the cars intended specification and of the 
proposed hire agreement. It also noted that delivery lead time  that is, the expected time of 
delivery  was March 2021. 
Section A of the order note also said that, under the Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 Miss O could cancel the order within 
14 days without any cancellation charges being due. AFL would not start to provide services 
under the agreement until after the end of the 14-day period or Miss O had provided her 
consent for it to do so. A box at the end of that section was ticked, instructing AFL to begin 
providing services immediately. Services meant credit broking services and the order of the 
car.
Section C of the order note set out the order terms and conditions.
Clause 5.6 said that AFL would not be liable for any delay in the delivery of the car and that 
any delivery date provided was an estimate only and was liable to change due to events 
beyond AFLs control. Such events included manufacturing and supply chain delays. 
Section 8 dealt with cancellation. Miss O could cancel the order with no cancellation fee 
within 14 days. Cancellation after AFL had begun to provide services or after it had ordered 
the car would be subject to the cancellation fees at clause 9. 
Clause 9 said that a fee of £600 would be payable in the event of cancellation outside the 
14-day period or if Miss O had asked AFL to provide services during that period. 
At the beginning of February 2021 AFL notified Miss O that the expected delivery date for 
the car was 23 April 2021. Miss O asked AFL to cancel the order on or about 19 February 
2021. AFL sought a £600 cancellation charge. 
Miss O disputed the charge, saying that AFLs advertising promised no hidden charges, 
such as administration or documentation fees. She referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered what had happened. 
Our investigator concluded, in summary, that AFL had acted in line with the terms of the 
agreement and not unfairly. Miss O did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised above the relevant parts of the agreement between Miss O and AFL. I 
think it is clear that there would be a cancellation fee of £600 if Miss O cancelled the order 
after 14 days or once AFL had started work on it. That is what happened. 
It is unfortunate that the estimated delivery date for the car was moved, and I understand 
that Miss O needed it as soon as possible. However, the order note made it clear that 
delivery estimates might be moved and that AFL would not be responsible if they were. 
I note too what Miss O says about AFLs advertising, but I do not believe that the 
cancellation charge was hidden. It was a fee which would not apply in most cases and was 
in my view of a different character from administration or documentation fees, for example. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require AFL (Fleet Management) Ltd to 
do anything further to resolve Miss Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman