DRN-2915926
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the valuation U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill placed on his 
stereo when they settled a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019, Mr A was in an accident and he was held at fault for it. Following this, Mr As car 
was declared as a total loss due to the cost of the repairs. When Mr As car was disposed of, 
Mr A says some of his personal possessions in the car werent returned to him  specifically 
the car stereo. 
Churchill acknowledged that the salvage agent wasnt made aware of these items before the 
car was disposed of. Churchill apologised and offered Mr A an amount for each item, 
including the car stereo.
Churchill initially agreed to pay Mr A £50 for the stereo, but Mr A didnt think this was 
enough. He then approached the dealership and asked them to provide a valuation for the 
stereo. The dealership said they contacted the cars manufacturer who confirmed due to the 
age of Mr As car, they were unable to provide a cost for the stereo. The dealership told Mr A 
they thought the value of the stereo was £1,000, but that this was purely an estimate based 
on their experience.
Mr A then approached an independent car audio specialist to get another quote. They said 
based on the product code provided by Mr A, the value of the stereo was £1,200. Following 
this, Churchill considered the information and agreed to increase their offer by a further £950 
(as theyd already paid Mr A £50) and explained that this was in line with the policy limit. Mr 
A remains unhappy with this and wants Churchill to increase this offer by a further £200.
Our investigator looked into Mr As concerns. He concluded that Churchill hadnt acted 
unreasonably when valuing Mr As stereo. And that they resolved the claim in line with Mr 
As policy. Mr A disagreed. He remained of the opinion that Churchill should pay him a 
further £200 for the stereo. So, the complaint has been passed to me. 
I considered and resolved an issue regarding elements of Mr As complaint that our rules 
didnt allow us to look into. So, this decision deals with the element of Mr As complaint we 
can look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When initially assessing Mr As claim, it seems Churchill relied on information provided from 
their engineer that the car stereo he had was a standard unit which, in his opinion, didnt cost 
more than £50. Therefore, I dont think Churchill did anything wrong in relying on this 
information when providing Mr A with the first valuation quote of £50.
 
Whats left for me to consider is whether I think Churchill have treated Mr A fairly in the 
£1,000 theyve paid him for the stereo. One of the elements insured by Churchill as listed in 
their policy terms and conditions is: permanently fitted in-car audio fitted as part of cars 
standard equipment  unlimited cover (otherwise cover is limited up to £1,000).
Mr A says the stereo was the one that came with the car and therefore, this should fall into 
the part of this clause which says the cover is unlimited. Mr A has added that because 
Churchill asked him to provide them with a valuation quote, that they should pay him the 
amount in this quote. 
Churchill accepted the valuation quote of £1,200 that Mr A provided them with from the 
independent car audio specialist. Following this, they then paid up to the policy limit which 
was £1,000. Having carried out some research of the product code provided by Mr A to the 
independent car audio specialist, I can see the stereo has a number of modern features 
such as in-built WiFi connectivity and smartphone control functions. However, it seems 
smartphone controls like the ones included in this model werent released until 2014 
onwards. With that in mind, I find it unlikely this was the stereo that was fitted in the car at 
the time as part of its standard equipment. I say this because the car was first registered in 
2006. So, I think Churchill have considered the claim fairly and in line with the policys terms 
and conditions by paying up to the £1,000 limit.
Mr A is claiming for an additional £200 but this amount is an uninsured loss and isn't covered 
under his policy. Usually, an uninsured loss can be claimed back from the party held at fault 
for the accident. In the circumstances of this case, Mr A was held at fault so there isnt 
anyone he can claim the additional £200 back from.
I note Churchill paid Mr A the £50 and then issued him with a cheque for a further £950. So, 
with this in mind, I wont be asking Churchill to do anything more.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman