DRN-3110286
The complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs R bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case. Ive decided that Mrs Rs PPI wasnt 
mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs R says she was told she had to take the PPI to get the credit card. The difficulty I 
have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed between Mrs R and 
Barclaycard when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place 
many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
But I note that the credit card application form Mrs R completed was filled in to show 
that she wanted the cover. And there was a separate box she couldve ticked if she 
hadnt wanted the cover. 
In addition, there was nothing on the form to suggest that taking the PPI was a 
condition of getting the credit card. 
Overall, from what Ive seen, I think Barclaycard made Mrs R aware that the PPI was 
optional and she chose to take it out.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mrs R but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Even though Mrs R 
says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to those benefits and wouldve been useful to her if she couldnt work. So I 
think Mrs R wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Mrs R would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Which means Barclaycard does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R. 
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because:
 Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because Barclaycard didnt 
tell Mrs R, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back to Mrs R any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman