DRN-3190846
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr E arranged for his boiler to be serviced by British Gas under his HomeCare policy. 
However, on the day of the appointment, the booking had disappeared from the British Gas 
app and Mr E realised it had been cancelled. When Mr E raised this with British Gas, he was 
told the appointment had been cancelled due to an emergency in the area.
Mr E complained to British Gas. When British Gas replied it said that due to a system error 
the appointment hadnt been allocated to an engineer. It initially offered £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. British Gas then increased this to £107.07, which took into account the cost of one 
months direct debit payment for the HomeCare cover.
When Mr E complained to this service, our investigator said British Gas didnt need to do 
anything further. He said the compensation already offered by British Gas was a reasonable 
response to the issue
As Mr E didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require British Gas to do anything further. I will explain why.
Im aware that Mr E has said that when he contacted British Gas on the day of the cancelled 
appointment he was first told it had been cancelled due to an emergency and then another 
person told him they didnt know why it had been cancelled. I havent seen anything in British 
Gas records to show what was said in those discussions, but I have no reason to doubt 
what Mr E has said. So, I can understand that Mr E would be unclear about why his 
appointment had been cancelled and which, if any, of the reasons he was given was correct.
Ive looked at why the appointment was cancelled. When British Gas investigated this, it 
found there was an error in the system, which meant the customer details werent showing. 
So, from what Ive seen British Gas provided the correct reason when it responded to Mr Es 
complaint, which was that the cancellation was due to a system error, despite this not being 
what he was told previously.
Mr E was also concerned that the appointment might have been cancelled as the result of 
previous complaints. However, I havent seen anything to suggest this was the case. Im also 
aware that Mr E was concerned British Gas didnt keep the phone calls related to his 
complaint to show what was discussed. From what Ive seen, it isnt unusual for British Gas 
only to keep calls for a particular time period and, as Ive already said, Ive no reason to 
doubt what Mr E said British Gas told him about the cancelled appointment.
Mr E said he wanted the payments for his HomeCare policy refunded. The policy was made 
up of a number of elements, including home emergency cover and cover for his appliances. 
So, the annual service was only one element of the policy. I dont think the appointment 
being cancelled meant the whole premium should be refunded, as there were other benefits 
available under the policy that the payments also covered.
British Gas offered Mr E £107.07 compensation, which included the refund of one months 
premium. Ive thought about the impact on Mr E, including that the appointment was 
cancelled on the day, without him being told, and that he was given different reasons for the 
cancellation. In the circumstances, I think the compensation offered was reasonable in 
response to what happened and I dont require British Gas to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman