DRN-3802533
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money she lost when 
she was the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In May 2022, Miss R felt the brakes on her car needed changing and so contacted a local 
garage she had used to service the car the previous month. The garage agreed to collect the 
car and carry out the work, but said Miss R had to pay for the work upfront. So Miss R made 
a payment of £340 from her NatWest account to the account details the garage gave her.
After the car was returned from the garage, Miss R didnt think the brakes had been 
changed. She says the garage initially ignored her messages and denied it had done 
anything wrong, before eventually admitting it hadnt done the work. And she says she took 
the car to another garage and a national repair company, who both confirmed the brakes 
hadnt been changed. So Miss R then reported the payment to NatWest as a scam and 
asked it to refund the money she had lost.
NatWest investigated but said Miss R had used the garage before and paid money to the 
same account details before. It also said the garage appeared to be a legitimate business. 
So it didnt agree she had been the victim of a scam, or to refund the money she had lost. 
Miss R wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said the garage appeared to be a 
legitimate business, as Miss R had used them previously. And they said the garages bank 
had told us there were no other claims made against the garage. So they thought it was 
more likely that this was a civil dispute between Miss R and the garage, rather than a scam. 
And so they didnt think NatWest should have to refund the money Miss R lost. Miss R 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require NatWest to refund the money Miss R 
lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
NatWest is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether NatWest should refund the money Miss R lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the garage set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Miss R had used this garage to service her car the month before she made this payment, 
and was clearly happy enough with the work it did then to ask it to carry out this work on the 
brakes too. So I think this suggests the garage was operating as a legitimate business. I 
appreciate that Miss R now has doubts about whether the service was carried out correctly 
too, but this appears to be based mostly on information she has been given by other 
garages  who would obviously benefit from carrying out additional work themselves. And I 
dont think shes provided any clear evidence that either the service or the work on the 
brakes wasnt carried out.
Miss R has sent us photos of the dashboard of the car, which shows that a service is due 
and the brake pads need changing. But this just shows that the cars internal computer 
thinks a service is due and the brake pads need changing, not that neither of these have 
actually be done recently. It is possible to change the internal computer without servicing any 
parts on the car, or to service the car and change the brake pads without updating the 
computer. So I dont think this shows that no work was done by the garage.
Miss R has also said she has been told the work wasnt done by another garage and a 
national repair company. But she hasnt provided any evidence from either of them that no 
work was done, or that replacement work had to be carried out. And even if there was 
evidence that the work wasnt carried out by the garage, this wouldnt necessarily show that 
it intended to scam her  as the work not being done could still have been the result of 
administrative or supply errors, rather than a deliberate scam.
Weve also received information from the garages bank that the account it holds is in the 
name of a business rather than an individual, that no other claims have been made against 
the garages account and that it has no concerns about the account. And scammers will 
usually try to scam a number of people at once, rather than just one person, which would 
then lead to a number of claims being made against the account. So I think this information 
suggests the garage was operating as a legitimate business.
I appreciate how Miss R feels about this case. But, based on the evidence I have, I dont 
think the garage set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her, or that she was the 
victim of a scam. So I dont think the payment Miss R made to the garage is covered under 
the CRM code, or that NatWest should be required to refund the money she lost.
Miss R has also mentioned that she received a speeding ticket during the time the garage 
had her car. But while using her car without her permission is a poor business practice on 
the part of the garage, I dont think it proves that the work wasnt carried out or that the 
garage was operating as a scam.
I sympathise with the position Miss R has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the garage. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold NatWest responsible 
for the money she lost.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman