DRN-4505381
The complaint
Mr K complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim under his pet 
insurance policy. 
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr K has a pet insurance policy which is underwritten by UKI. On 28 June 2023, he took his 
dog  who Ill refer to as B  to the vets as B had been lame. Mr K says Bs lameness 
came on following an accident whilst jumping for a ball approximately two weeks prior. Bs 
vet prescribed pain relief medication and advised B should have a follow up appointment if 
things didnt improve.
On 5 July, B was reassessed as the lameness hadnt improved. Following x-rays, Bs vet 
gave a diagnosis of a suspected bilateral cruciate problem but possibly also hip issue. 
Mr K submitted a claim for the cost of the treatment, but UKI declined it saying Bs lameness 
was the result of a non-emergency illness and hadnt required emergency treatment which 
the policy defines as immediate vet attention for a severe and unexpected illness in order to 
stabilise your pets condition.
Mr K disagreed and complained to UKI. UKI maintained its position adding that the clinical 
history indicated an underlying issue was the cause of Bs lameness as it hadnt cleared up 
after medication had been prescribed. It said because the vet had diagnosed cruciate 
disease / osteoarthritis as the most likely cause of the lameness, it wasnt satisfied there was 
evidence to show it was the result of an injury either.
Unhappy, Mr K brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it but didnt 
uphold it saying the vets note didnt suggest immediate veterinary treatment was required, 
nor that Bs condition needed stabilising. And she wasnt satisfied Bs lameness and 
diagnosis was the result of an injury.
Mr K disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached  and Ill explain why. 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), sets out rules and 
guidance for insurers to follow in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says insurers must handle claims promptly, fairly, and must not unreasonably reject 
a claim. So, Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Ks complaint. 
The starting point is the policy document which under vets fees says:
Youre covered for:
[] Up to £1,500 or 12 months of cover (whichever is reached first) for necessary 
treatment for each injury and up to £500 towards emergency treatment for an illness 
required to stabilise your pets condition.
Injury is defined as: Damage to one or more parts of your pets body as a result of one 
accidental cause. 
And illness is defined as Any sudden, disease, sickness, infection, failure or changes to 
your pets normal healthy state thats not caused by injury. 
Illness 
In order for Bs vet fees to be covered under the illness part of the policy, it needs to be 
shown that B required emergency treatment. UKI said this wasnt the case, and so, Ive 
looked at the evidence to decide whether its decision to rely on the policy exclusion that any 
illness that isnt sudden and unexpected and doesnt require emergency treatment, isnt 
covered, was fair. 
The clinical notes show B was seen two weeks after the incident jumping for the ball. Given 
there was a period of two weeks between the incident and B being seen by a vet, Im not 
persuaded B can be considered as having required immediate vet attention. And my 
opinion remains the same even if Bs lameness didnt present until a few days before Mr K 
took him to the vets in late June  as waiting a few days is also not indicative of B requiring 
immediate veterinary attention.  
Notably, when B was seen by the vet, the vet said he could be reviewed in 7 to 10 days if his 
lameness didnt improve following rest and medication. Given the vet was satisfied B should 
rest before further investigations were carried out, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable 
to conclude B had required immediate vet attention for a severe illness.
Ive also thought about whether Bs illness was unexpected. Having reviewed the clinical 
notes, its apparent B had a history of lameness, osteoarthritis, and had also previously been 
prescribed pain relief for a problem with his leg. The vet notes from 28 June 2023 say: B 
has had some lameness problems in the past and has had Metacam [pain relief / anti-
inflammatory medication] 3 weeks ago. And in April 2023 clinical notes say: [B] not on any 
meds currently but has Metacam to use when leg bad. So, Im not persuaded the cruciate 
problem can reasonably be considered as unexpected. 
Finally, whilst B was given pain relief and anti-inflammatory medication when seen in June 
2023, Im not persuaded this can reasonably be considered treatment to stabilise his 
condition as hed been prescribed this same medication for lameness only a few weeks 
prior.
So, based on the above, Im satisfied UKIs decision to consider Bs treatment as relating to 
a non-emergency illness and therefore, not covered by the policy to be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Injury 
UKI has also said the treatment cost isnt covered because Bs diagnosis of a cruciate 
problem wasnt the result of one accidental cause. But Mr K refutes this, saying the injury 
happened when B had an accident jumping for a ball  adding that B had been fine before 
the incident. Whilst the vet did consider whether the lameness was due to soft tissue damage (caused by 
jumping for the ball) - the vet ultimately concluded a diagnosis of bilateral cruciate problem 
and possible hip issue as the most likely cause of Bs lameness. 
As the clinical notes show B had previously been seen for lameness, and for issues with his 
leg in April 2023 - Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to show the lameness and 
resulting diagnosis of a bilateral cruciate problem was caused by a one-off accident (jumping 
for the ball). I appreciate Mr K says B was fine before the accident, but the clinical notes 
suggest otherwise  as B had been seen for lameness prior to the accident having occurred. 
And so, I consider UKIs decision to decline the claim on the basis that Bs cruciate problem 
wasnt the result of one accidental cause to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
know my decision will be disappointing for Mr K, but I hope for the reasons set out above he 
understands why Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman