DRN-3275247
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Equifax Limited are displaying incorrect information on her credit 
file.
What happened
Fraudulent loans were taken out in Mrs Cs name. The loan companies confirmed they were 
fraudulent and requested for them to be removed from Mrs Cs credit file. Mrs C also 
forwarded this correspondence to Equifax. But information about these loans remained on 
her Equifax file.
Meanwhile, Mrs C has been living at the same address for many years, and her council is 
reporting to Equifax that she has been registered on the electoral roll for that time. But this 
data is not on her Equifax file.
Mrs C complained. Equifax said she should raise a dispute about the fraudulent loans, and 
should contact her council about the electoral roll data.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs C and Equifax a provisional decision on 27 December 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be mostly upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Equifax have been particularly helpful here.
In regard to the electoral roll data, Equifax explained to our service that Mrs Cs council had 
recorded her address in one format, whereas Mrs C had given various different formats to 
her lenders. Indeed, for many of her accounts it seems her lenders were even given a 
different flat number to the one her council was recording.
Because the addresses were too different, it meant that if Equifax registered Mrs C at the 
address her council was reporting, then her electoral roll data would show on her credit file 
but her accounts with her lenders would disappear  as they were effectively registered at 
different addresses. That was why they hadnt been able to show her electoral roll data. 
They explained that Mrs C would need to contact her lenders and ask them to update her 
address to the same format as the one her council was using.
Now, that explanation seems fair enough. The problem is that Equifax only explained this to 
us, and not to Mrs C. They did not make it sufficiently clear to her why her electoral roll data 
wasnt showing up, nor did they give her clear instructions for how to fix this. Indeed, they 
even told Mrs C to take it up with her council or raise a new dispute afresh, and Im not sure 
what that wouldve achieved other than sending her on a bit of a wild goose chase.
So I think Equifax communicated poorly there. Ill get onto how they should put that right 
further below. As for getting the electoral roll data sorted, Mrs C will need to contact her 
lenders and make sure her address is in the same format as the one her council registers 
her as living at, including the same flat number. I will send Mrs C clarification on what her 
council is reporting as opposed to what her lenders are reporting. This will be on the 
covering letter.
In regard to the fraudulent loans, they should not be on Mrs Cs credit file. But based on the 
last report Equifax sent over, I can see that they were. And both lenders have confirmed that 
they asked Equifax to remove the data quite some time ago. I do not think it is likely that 
both lenders forgot to then put the request in. It suggests its most likely that the error was on 
Equifaxs end and that Equifax failed to remove the loans when the lenders told them to.
But even if the error wasnt on Equifaxs end, they should have at least acted when Mrs C 
complained about the fraudulent loans. She sent confirmation that they were fraudulent and 
asked for them to be removed. Equifax should have treated this as a dispute instead of 
requiring her to  in effect  dispute them again.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation to acknowledge 
their errors and the impact they had. Here, I think Equifax should have given Mrs C a clearer 
explanation about what was happening with her address data, along with clear instructions 
on how to put it right. They should have removed the fraudulent loans from her credit file 
when the loan companies asked them to, or at the least they should have raised a dispute 
on Mrs Cs behalf when she complained about the data and provided confirmation that the 
loans were fraudulent. Through their errors, Equifax have caused Mrs C some real trouble 
and upset, and have left data on her credit file that they would have known was incorrect and 
which would have adversely affected her file in the meantime. That needs to be put right.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
24 January 2022. But neither Equifax nor Mrs C sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Equifax Limited to:
Raise disputes on Mrs Cs behalf  or otherwise work together with the loan 
companies  to get any trace of the fraudulent loans removed from her credit file 
(including any search data); and-
Pay Mrs C £250 compensation.My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct Equifax Limited to put things right in the way I set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman