DRN-4299990
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the settlement offered by Covea Insurance plc following a 
claim on their home insurance policy for storm damage. 
Mr and Mrs B have been represented by a third party throughout this complaint, however for 
ease of reading Ive referred only to Mr and Mrs B in this decision. All references to them 
include the actions of their representative.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had home insurance with Covea. In February 2022 there was a storm that 
caused substantial damage to the property and outbuilding. They made a claim that was 
accepted. However Covea only offered a partial settlement for the roof of the property and 
the outbuilding, as it said there was pre-existing damage to both of these that wouldnt be 
covered under the policy.
It offered a contribution of £30,000 to cover the storm damage to the roof and £20,000 
towards the damage to the outbuilding.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this. They said the roof and outbuilding were in a good 
condition before the storm and this was demonstrated by the report carried out by the insurer 
before it agreed to provide the policy. They thought it should pay for the full repairs to both.
They made a complaint but Covea didnt uphold it so they brought it to this service. 
Our investigator thought Covea had offered a fair settlement for the outbuilding, based on its 
experts inspection of it. However she thought it should offer an additional £15,000 on top of 
the £30,000 offered for the roof as that would cover claim related damage.
Both Covea and Mr and Mrs B accepted our investigators recommendations for the roof 
settlement. However Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with her findings on the outbuilding. They 
said that the report from Coveas expert following the inspection of it was flawed and 
misrepresented the true damage to the outbuilding. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs B and Covea have agreed to our investigators recommendations regarding 
the settlement for the roof. I am therefore satisfied that this matter is resolved and wont 
comment further on this issue. If it hasnt done so already, Covea should pay an additional 
£15,000 towards this settlement, as recommended by our investigator and previously 
agreed.
This means the only matter outstanding is the settlement for the outbuilding. 
Covea has accepted there was a storm around the time of the damage. And that this caused 
damage to Mr and Mrs Bs home, including the outbuilding. However on inspection, its 
expert concluded that there were some pre-existing issues with the structure that meant the 
damage caused by the storm was worse than it would have been if it had been in a better 
condition. 
When settling a claim, an insurer is obliged to indemnify its customer for the damage caused 
by the insured peril. This doesnt include putting right issues that existed before the peril 
occurred. Especially where those issues meant the event caused more damage than it 
would have done otherwise. So its reasonable that Covea assessed the condition of the 
structure before the storm, when calculating its settlement.  
Ive looked at the report provided by Coveas expert. It identified a number of issues with the 
structure that it said were pre-existing including:
Downward movement caused by settlement that had caused distortion to the doors 
and an uneven floor.
The structure was twisting which indicates it has been unstable since construction.
Insufficient support at the base of the structure with rotting timbers supporting it.
However the report noted that there was some damage to the building that had been caused 
by the storm. And it provided an itemised list of this damage.  
I note Mr and Mrs B have disputed the findings of this report. Theyve said the photos 
provided are misleading and some of the findings completely false. However as this report 
was provided by a structural expert who inspected the property I find it persuasive. And while 
Mr and Mrs B have disputed its findings, theyve provided no expert evidence to show that it 
is incorrect. On that basis, I am more persuaded by the report. And I think Covea acted fairly 
by basing its settlement on that report.
Covea has also provided a scope of works for the damage that its expert identified as likely 
to be caused by the storm. This priced the work up at just under £18,000. Covea has offered 
a settlement of £20,000 to cover the storm damage for the outbuilding. As this is based on 
the findings from its expert report, and a fully priced scope of works, I think it has acted fairly 
in calculating this settlement. 
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs B have said about the pre-inception report instructed 
by Covea. As theyve said this didnt identify any problems with the outbuilding at the time. 
Ive looked at this report however it doesnt change my position. A pre-inception report 
generally is for insurers to assess the sum insured on the policy is adequate and to 
understand the risk the insurer is taking on. The report carried out in 2019 makes very little 
comment about the outbuilding. And only includes one image taken from a distance. So I 
dont consider this a persuasive account of the condition of the outbuilding at that time. 
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that Covea has offered a fair settlement for 
the outbuilding and I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I direct Covea Insurance plc to pay the additional £15,000 
towards the settlement for the roof as it has previously agreed to, if it hasnt already done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman