DRN-2094837
The complaint
Mr M says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him, allowing him to get into severe financial 
debt.
What happened
In July 2020 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint about loan 3.
A summary of my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of my final decision:
This complaint is about three loans MYJAR provided to Mr M between January 2017 and October 
2017. Mr Ms borrowing history is set out on the table below as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment 
Amount
1 08/01/2017 04/04/2017 3 £375.00 £175.26
2 14/04/2017 29/09/2017 6 £275.00 £85.02
3 17/10/2017 Outstanding 6 £650.00 £210.31
Mr M complained that he didn't think MYJAR had carried out suitable financial checks - if it had done it 
would have realised the severity of the position he was in. He was left with no choice other than to try 
to get payday loans to pay off other payday loans.
MYJAR didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said in its final response that it undertook a number of 
checks. These included searches on public databases, completing fraud checks and credit scoring. It 
also said it relied on information Mr M had provided concerning his budget and personal 
circumstances in the application and collected his income and expenditure breakdown. Each time Mr 
M applied for a new loan MYJAR said it asked for confirmation or an update on the information it held 
about Mr M. And it said the checks it carried out needed to be proportionate, so for short-term loans 
these were less extensive than those for larger, longer term commitments. Based on the checks it 
carried out and the information held about Mr M it said it believed the loans were affordable.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With 
this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish whether Mr M 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because 
the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Im intending to uphold this complaint from the time MYJAR 
gave Mr M loan 3. I will explain why.
All three loans were given within nine months and Mr M had paid off the first two loans when Mr M 
applied for loan 3. As I explained above, the checks early on the relationship needed to be 
proportionate. For all three loans Mr M gave his income and expenditure. For loan 1 he told MYJAR 
his income was £2,500 and his expenses as £900 including his housing costs and other creditor 
repayments. MYJAR seems to have adjusted this amount.
For loan 2 Mr M said his income was £2,500 and his expenses were £650 - again MYJAR adjusted 
this figure. The report MYJAR saw told it Mr M wasn't bankrupt or in another debt plan, no accounts 
had been opened in the last day and no accounts were overdue. I still think this was early in the 
lending relationship and I think the checks it carried out were proportionate for loans 1 and 2. I don't 
think its checks would have alerted it to the fact Mr M was having problems managing his money. So I 
dont intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loans 1 or 2.
For loan 3, this time Mr M said his income was £3,000 and his expenses £750. MYJAR has sent the 
information it saw. I can see on MYJARS own checks for loan 3, it should have noted Mr M had 
opened eleven new accounts in the last three months. I think on this basis MYJAR should have 
verified the information it had received.
MYJAR couldve gone about doing this several ways. It couldve asked for evidence of Mr M income 
in the way of a wage slip or it couldve obtained information about his outgoings via copies of bills. But, in this case, Mr A has provided a copy of a credit report which covers the period of the third loan. 
So, I dont think it is unreasonable to rely on the information I can see in this credit report.
From this report I can see that Mr M had numerous high cost short term loans with various other 
providers. It seems the cost of these loans were high, and that Mr M was consistently using high cost 
credit. It also was apparent Mr M had paid off other loans in the months before he took out loan 3. I 
think the cost of his outgoings meant this loan was unaffordable.
If MYJAR had carried out some further searches and investigated Mr Ms financial position more 
thoroughly as I think it ought to have done, for the reasons Ive explained, I think it would have seen 
that the repayment for this loan was unaffordable and unsustainable. I dont think MYJAR would have 
given Mr M his third loan.
So as things stand, Im intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 3.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
I asked both parties to come back to me with anything further they wished me to consider 
before making my final decision.
Neither party has come back to me with anything more they wish me to consider. So, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
I uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 3.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
As I said above, it appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3. If that is the 
case and MYJAR sold the outstanding debts to a third party, it will need to buy it back if it 
can and then follow the steps set out below. If it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
a. MYJAR must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 3, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the principal on this 
loan. If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then MYJAR must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated and paid on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
b. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M. It must not pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal it has already written-off.
c. MYJAR must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
loan 3.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.If MYJAR and Mr M do agree a repayment plan, I remind MYJAR of its obligation to treat 
Mr M fairly.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint about loan 3. MYJAR Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman