DRN-1689195
The complaint 
Ms Fs complaint is about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) and its decline of her claim under a 
travel insurance policy. She wants the claim accepted and paid. 
Background
Ms F and her children flew abroad in March 2019 with an airline, W, and while they 
were away, the return flights were delayed for more than four hours and then 
cancelled after theyd checked into the airport. Ms F said that she was told by the 
airline the cancellation was due to operational reasons and she noticed that it was 
still flying the next day.
Ms F said that the airline didnt give her any help, and she had to pay extra for hotel 
rooms, taxi fares, meals and flights home. W went insolvent days after their return. 
Ms F used chargeback and other methods to reduce her losses and made a claim to 
UKI under her travel insurance policy. It was declined.
Ms F complained to UKI about its decision.
UKI said that it believed that the flights were cancelled due to W being about to enter 
insolvency, which it said was excluded by the terms and conditions of the policy if the 
flight was cancelled by the operator.
Ms F didnt agree and brought her complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld.
UKI doesnt agree.
 
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should be upheld for these reasons: 
The policy says we will cover you for your additional accommodation, travel and 
refreshment costs if you have checked in and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is 
delayed by more than four hours beyond the time shown on your travel itinerary at 
the point of international departure. It also says that such claims arent covered if the 
flight is cancelled by the operator. It isnt obvious what this means as flights are 
cancelled by the operator (the airline), though it might be for a variety of reasons. It 
cant be a broad exclusion or it would mean a claim could very rarely be made. The 
exclusion doesnt mention end-supplier failure and I note UKI spent time trying to find 
out more about the cancellation; it doesnt seem to think the exclusion applies to all 
cancellations.
I note that UKIs own research supports Ms Fs account and that it isnt going to be 
possible to establish for certain why her flight was cancelled. It remains possible that 
the flight was cancelled due to the impending insolvency, but also mightve been for 
other reasons, such as issues relating to a connected flight as mentioned to Ms F. 
The airline was still flying the next day. Ms F has shown that an insured event has happened as she was delayed for more than four hours; UKI hasnt shown in my 
view that the exclusion applies.
And if Im wrong about UKI not showing that the exclusion applied, I still have to think 
about whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  The policy says that it does 
cover delayed departure and the costs connected to it, and the exclusion isnt written 
to explain what it means in clear terms e.g. if the cancellation is due to a mechanical 
reason, the claim is covered; if due to insolvency, it isnt. UKI has said Ms F needed 
to show that the cancellation wasnt due to insolvency, but the policy doesnt say this 
 the exclusion is ambiguous and UKI seems to be saying that cancellations by the 
operator can be covered but not if its due to insolvency. And theres no way a 
member of the public can find out why the cancellation happened, particularly as the 
airline has stopped trading. Ms F took out a policy which says that it covered her if 
she faced more than a four hour delay, and this happened as she has shown. I think 
its fair and reasonable that the claim is accepted and considered as Ms F suffered 
loss due to an insured event and supplied as much information about what happened 
as possible, as well as tried to mitigate her loss by using other methods to claim back 
some of her losses. The insolvency wasnt until two days after her return and UKI 
cannot show either why the cancellation happened or precisely what it meant by the 
phrase cancellation by the operator, so I think its fair to interpret it in Ms Fs favour.
 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Ms Fs 
complaint, UK Insurance Limited should:
  accept the claim and consider it in line with the terms and conditions of the policy;
 Interest at 8% simple interest a year on any payment made should be paid and calculated 
from the date of claim to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman