DRN-2580009
The complaint
Mr F complains that Connells Limited should have done more when advising him and his 
late wife, Mrs F, about life assurance and their joint mortgage.
The advice in this case was given by another company, acting as an appointed 
representative of Connells Limited. Connells in my decision will mean Connells Limited and 
their appointed representative. 
What happened
Mrs F sadly died less than a month after she and Mr F bought a home together. Mr F 
contacted Connells and asked about making a claim on Mrs Fs life assurance policy. But 
they told him she didnt have one. 
Mr F complained, raising general questions about the job Connells had done when advising 
him and Mrs F. Hes told us that Mrs F wouldnt have bought the house if shed known she 
didnt have life assurance. And he felt it wasnt right for Connells not to have looked into 
getting cover for her, when theyd arrange their joint mortgage. 
Connells said theyd not been able to get a life assurance quote for Mrs F when they met her 
because she was having medical tests. And they felt Mrs F knew she didnt have life 
assurance before she signed up to the joint mortgage with Mr F. While they could appreciate 
the tragedy of Mr Fs situation, they decided not to uphold his complaint. 
With the help of a representative, Mr F brought the complaint to us. Our investigator listened 
to what both Mr F and Connells said about the initial meeting, where no life assurance 
quotes were given to Mrs F. He found that was reasonable, given the circumstances. And he 
felt some telephone call recordings Connells provided showed Mrs F knew she didnt have 
life assurance in place. 
Our investigator also looked at the way Connells had responded to information requests 
Mr F made after Mrs F died. Our investigator felt Connells had been justified in initially only 
giving Mr F his own details, before later giving him Mrs Fs records as well. 
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators findings. So the case has come to me for a further 
review and a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by passing on my sympathies to Mr F for the loss he and his family have 
suffered. Its impossible not to feel the sadness of whats happened in this case. And I can 
appreciate the concerns he must have for his familys future finances. 
Looking at this complaint, Ive found the service Connells gave to Mr and Mrs F was 
reasonable. So although it wont be the outcome Mr F was hoping for, Im not going to tell 
them to do anything in response to his complaint. 
Key here is the meeting that took place between Mr and Mrs F and Connells in January 
2019. Ive seen some notes and documents produced at the time, which confirm Mrs F 
wasnt given any quotes for life assurance. 
Connells say this was due to Mrs F having medical tests at the time. The note Connells 
made of the meeting shows the medical tests were discussed with Mr and Mrs F. The 
representative at the meeting says they called to check with their life assurance provider at 
the time, and confirmed cover wasnt available for Mrs F because of the ongoing tests. 
While Mr F hasnt been able to remember the full details of the meeting, it doesnt seem to 
be disputed that Mrs F was having medical tests at the time. Im satisfied that explains why 
there was no quote for life assurance for Mrs F. An insurer would likely want to know if the 
medical tests showed a claim was going to be more likely. This could lead to changes in any 
policy they offered, such as higher premiums, or exclusions for any existing conditions. 
Mr Fs said he feels Connells shouldnt have arranged the joint mortgage using Mrs Fs 
income, if she couldnt get life assurance. But I can see Connells had recommended life 
cover for both Mr and Mrs F. It wasnt essential to have a policy to get the mortgage, so I find 
it reasonable for Connells to have simply recommended the cover, rather than insisted on it. 
Ive heard Connells calls with Mrs F after the meeting, up to the day she and Mr F moved in 
to their new property. Its clear from the calls that Mrs F knew she and Mr F didnt have life 
assurance from Connells. Ive heard her tell Connells a price theyd quoted to cover just Mr F 
was too high. And Mr Fs representative has also said Mrs F contacted a family member to 
ask about a quote for life assurance. To me, that all confirms she knew Connells hadnt set 
anything up. 
So with all this in mind, I cant see that Connells needed to do anything different here. 
Ongoing medical tests for Mrs F meant they couldnt arrange life assurance for her. They did 
enough to make it clear there was no cover offered for Mrs F. And doing that gave her and 
Mr F enough information to make an informed choice about whether to continue with the 
purchase, knowing they didnt have life cover. 
Finally, Ive considered Mr Fs comments about the time it took Connells to provide his and 
Mrs Fs details after hed asked for them under a subject access request. I understand 
Connells treated the first request Mr F made as being just for him, before later providing 
details for Mrs F as well when a further request was made. 
I can see how this confusion delayed Mr F being able to see and understand the full details 
of why he and Mrs F didnt have life assurance. But I can also appreciate there were legal 
requirements for Connells to keep the data they held secure. I believe those requirements 
were ultimately the reason for the delay here, rather than any mistake by Connells. So now 
the datas been provided, I find Connells dont need to do anything to put right Mr Fs 
dissatisfaction with their responses to his requests for data. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman