DRN-2421429
The complaint
Ms N says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms N took out PPI by phone in June 2004, several months after her mortgage started. Her 
PPI was part of a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) that in addition to PPI (accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover) offered life and critical illness cover. Ms N didnt select 
life or critical illness cover. Ms N paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms N disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the adjudicators view Ms N said we have found in favour of Halifax who have 
provided no information or documentation. I have weighed up the available evidence from 
both sides. As some of it is incomplete, my decision is based on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence we do have and what 
we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. As an independent and impartial 
organisation we dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to 
find in favour of one party over the other.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms N says she didnt know she had been sold PPI. Initially she said she couldnt remember 
how the insurance was sold to her, but later recalled that Halifax called her to sell her the 
policy, and it was not made clear to her that the PPI was optional.  
Halifax has supplied records confirming it was a phone sale, but it has no call recording or 
sales script available. This isnt unreasonable given how long ago the sale was. The bank 
does have a record of the PPI eligibility questions that Ms N answered. The fact Ms N 
selected only PPI - not the full TMMP package including life and critical illness  suggests to 
me there was a discussion between the parties and Ms N understood she had choices. Plus 
the sale took place months after Ms Ns mortgage completed which I think shows she 
wouldve known PPI wasnt mandatory, rather a separate, optional product.
Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made it clear Ms N had a choice about PPI - and she 
opted to take it. I can understand she might not remember this give how long ago the sale 
was.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms N, so it had to make sure it was right for her. Ms N says 
Halifax did no fact finding to understand her financial situation at the time. Halifax hasnt 
provided any evidence to show what checks it did to make sure the PPI was suitable, but 
this doesnt automatically mean the policy was mis-sold. What I need to decide is if Ms N 
has lost out because of any failure on the banks part. And based on what Ms N has told us 
about circumstances at the time I think the PPI seems to have been right for her. Ill explain 
why.
Ms N told us she was entitled to between six and 12 months sick pay and had savings or 
other insurances worth at least 12 months salary. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 24 
months for each accident and sickness claim. It also gave up to 24 months redundancy 
cover. This would have allowed Ms N to protect any lump sum payment from her employer, 
giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. I asked for further information 
on Ms Ns savings or other insurances, but she has been unable to provide more details. 
This is understandable given how long ago the sale was, but without knowing more about 
these other means I cant fairly conclude they meant Ms N didnt have a need for this policy. 
Also, the PPI would have allowed Ms N to use any savings for other living expenses whilst 
not working, or to keep them intact for her future needs. 
Ms N had recently borrowed a large sum over a long period, secured on her home. So the 
effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for her. Overall, I think 
this PPI policy, which gave her up to 24 months cover, would have been useful for Ms N if 
she was sick, had an accident or lost her job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Ms N all the information she needed before deciding to
buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made clear, but it was a reasonable price for 
the benefit it offered, and it was apparently affordable. I dont know that the bank pointed out 
the main things the policy didnt cover. But Ms N doesnt seem to have been affected by any 
of the main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the policy wouldve
changed her mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Ms N has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman