DRN-1577644
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way in with MBNA Limited sold him a credit card. He says the 
advert for the card was mis-leading. And it led him to take out the card when he otherwise 
wouldn't have. 
What happened
Mr H applied for and took out a credit card in April 2019. He explained he did this because it 
was advertised as having 0% interest on purchases for 28 months. 
In November 2019 MBNA wrote to Mr H, and explained it had noticed an error in the 
advertising for the card. It said that the advert hadn't been clear in explaining the terms of 
the agreement. Rather than any purchases made on the card within 28 months being 
interest free, the card instead offered 0% interest, for a period of 28 months, but only on 
purchases made within the first 60 days of the account being opened. 
MBNA apologised for this error. It said that because the error was its fault, it would honour 
0% interest - for a period of 28 months, on any purchases made between the April and         
8 November 2019 in Mr H case. And it would also allow any purchases within the next 30 
days to benefit from this offer too. It said after that 30-day period interest would be applied 
on any new purchases as per the terms of the agreement. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He said that he wouldn't have taken the credit card out if he 
had known the offer wasnt as advertised. And he has indicated he intends to close (or has 
closed) his account and transfer the balance to another card provider thereby incurring a 
balance transfer fee. 
Because Mr H disagreed with MBNAs proposed way to resolve the complaint, he referred 
the matter to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. She noted the 
actual credit card agreement Mr H signed did accurately explain the correct interest free 
offer. And she thought Mr H should have been aware of the terms of the account at that 
point.  So, she said the offer MBNA had made was fair. Because Mr H didn't agree with our 
investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
 MBNA has accepted it advertised the product incorrectly. As above, it said the advert had 
explained the card would offer 0% interest, on any purchases made in the first 28 months of 
taking out the card. But this wasn't right. Instead, the terms of the account were that any 
purchases made within the first 60 days of the account opening, would benefit from a 28-
month interest free period. 
Because MBNA has accepted the mistake it made here, I dont need to investigate this 
further. Its clear there was an error in the advert, and all parties accept this. 
So, Ive needed to think about whether MBNA has taken a fair and reasonable appraoch to 
put its error right. Ive considered all points both parties have made. And, having done so, 
Im satisfied MBNA has acted fairly. I know Mr H will be disappointed, so Ill explain why:
As above, the advert was incorrect. But, having looked at the credit card agreement Mr H 
signed when he took out the card, I can see the right terms and conditions were clearly 
explained at that point. And Mr H wouldn't have been able to take the credit card out without 
reading and signing this. 
Within the credit agreement a table was shown, highlighting that purchases made within 60 
days would benefit from 0% interest for 28 months. And the terms for balance transfers and 
money transfers were listed below. So, I think on reading this document, Mr H should have 
been aware the interest rate wasn't as he first thought. 
Thats not to say I think MBNA acted correctly in respect of the misinformation given in the 
advert. I dont. But I do also think the terms and conditions in the credit agreement were 
important and signing these confirms theyve been read, and the terms agreed. So, I cant 
ignore this when coming to my decision. At this point, if Mr H didn't agree to the terms, the 
document shouldn't have been signed and the application stopped. 
But I do think it is reasonable MBNA take some steps to rectify the misinformation it gave in 
the advert. But I dont think it should honour the whole interest free period. As above, the 
correct information was in the binding documents. And once MBNA realised its mistake, it 
wrote to Mr H to rectify this. MBNA has agreed to honour the interest free period from April 
2019 (when Mr H took the product out) until early December 2019 (a month after it realised 
its mistake and notified Mr H). I think this a reasonable way to address the error. I say this 
because MBNAs offer made sure Mr H wasn't at a detriment for anything he had already 
spent, on the understanding of a longer interest free period. And it allowed Mr H a further 
month to spend and take advantage of the offer, if needed. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with the decision I have reached as he feels strongly that 
MBNA made a deliberate mistake to attract new customers. But as our investigator has 
explained, we dont regulate MBNA and cannot fine or punish it. Our role is to look at the 
individual circumstances of    Mr Hs complaint and if a mistake is evident -as it is here, we 
look to ensure a fair resolution is reached.
Mr H has indicated that he has closed or intends to close his account and transfer the 
balance elsewhere. And that this will incur a balance transfer fee. But I dont think I can hold 
MBNA responsible for this. This is because the offer it made meant that any purchases 
made up to early December 2019 were still interest free for the full period originally offered. 
So Mr H hasnt suffered any loss as a result of MBNAs mistake. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that MBNA Limited's offer is reasonable. So, I don't 
require it to do anything more. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman