DRN-2197882
The complaint
 Mr U complains that UK Insurance Limited (T/A Direct Line) unfairly declined a claim he 
made under his insurance policy, which led to it avoiding his policy.
 
What happened
 Mr U is the landlord of a property that he rents out. This property is managed by a 
management agent on Mr Us behalf. 
When Mr U purchased his tenanted property, it had a sitting tenant, whod commenced their 
tenancy in July 2013. Prior to purchasing the property, Mr U had checked, and confirmed, 
with its managing agent that the tenant had a history of paying their rent on time. 
After purchasing his property Mr U continued to rent it to the sitting tenant. And, in August 
2017, he took out an insurance policy, with Direct Line, to insure that property. He renewed 
his policy with Direct Line in August 2018 and, again, in 2019.
Prior to the policy being incepted, Mr U was shown a statement of fact, which he was asked 
to agree to. This statement referred to assumptions that his tenant was either employed, 
retired, in full time education or in receipt of disability benefit. And Direct Line said Mr U had 
agreed that the statement was correct.
On 7 January 2020, police forced entry to Mr Us property causing damage to the entrance 
door. This was in response to a concern for welfare being raised about his tenant. 
Mr U contacted Direct Line on 8 January 2020 to claim for damage to his property. When he 
explained what had happened, Direct Line requested a copy of his tenancy agreement. It 
also asked him to confirm the employment status of his tenant. Mr U provided Direct Line 
with a tenancy agreement. But he said he didnt know information relating to the employment 
status of his tenant. So, he was asked to check and come back to Direct Line.
Mr U subsequently informed Direct Line that his tenant was an overseas citizen who was 
residing in the UK for the purposes of receiving long term medical treatment. But he couldnt 
confirm that his tenant was in receipt of disability benefit. So, Direct Line wrote to Mr U to 
explain it was repudiating his claim and avoiding his policy. It also said it had decided to 
retain the policy premiums hed paid.
Mr U complained to Direct Line about the decision it had taken. He said hed provided 
relevant information about his tenant, which had been correct to the best of his knowledge. 
So, he felt Direct Line had acted unfairly.
 
Direct Line didnt uphold Mr Us complaint. It said it was his responsibility to ensure hed 
provided correct information about his tenant when he incepted his policy. And it felt, in not 
knowing whether his tenant was in receipt of a disability benefit, hed recklessly provided 
information about them. It said, if it had been aware that Mr U hadnt known about the 
employment or benefits status of his tenant, it wouldnt have provided cover. So, it thought it 
had acted reasonably in avoiding his policy from the date of inception and retaining the 
policy premiums hed paid. 
Being dissatisfied with Direct Lines response to his complaint, Mr U referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and recommended upholding this 
complaint. She wasnt persuaded Mr U had made a reckless misrepresentation. And she 
was satisfied Mr Us tenant was in receipt of a qualifying disability benefit  albeit this 
couldnt be confirmed from the policy inception date. She recommended that Direct Line 
reinstate Mr Us policy, settle his claim and pay interest to recognise the delay in it doing so. 
Mr U accepted our investigators view. But Direct Line disagreed and asked an ombudsman 
to review this complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr U. I realise this has had a big impact on him. 
And I can appreciate how distressing it must have been for Direct Line to repudiate his claim 
and avoid his policy. So, Ive carefully considered what happened and whether Direct Line 
made an error  such that it needs to put right.
Direct Line thinks Mr U failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he took out his policy in 2017. And it said he failed to correct that representation when he 
renewed his policy in 2018 and 2019.
The crux of the misrepresentation here relates to the information Mr U provided to Direct 
Line about the employment status of his tenant. When he incepted his policy, and at 
renewal, he was asked to agree with a statement of fact that said: 
at least one of the tenants signing the tenancy agreement must, at the point of signing be 
either employed, retired, in full time education or in receipt of disability benefit. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr U answered yes to that statement of fact. Direct Line states this was 
a misrepresentation as Mr U didnt know whether or not the content of the statement was 
correct. And it said it hasnt seen any evidence confirming that Mr Us tenant was receiving 
disability benefit at the time the policy was incepted.
Where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information important to an insurer, as it 
does here, our service considers the appropriate legislation including The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance policy. The standard of care that is expected is that of a 
reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
For a misrepresentation to be a qualifying one the insurer must show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
Here, Direct Line thinks Mr U failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he incepted his policy. Its important when looking at this to decide if the insurer asked 
a clear question when the policy was taken out. 
Prior to Mr U taking out his policy, he was asked to agree with the statement of fact Ive set 
out above. Mr U hasnt disputed that he was asked whether he agreed with it. Im therefore 
satisfied this statement was something he was asked to agree with. 
I think the statement of fact Mr U was asked to agree with was clear. I say this because 
there can be no misunderstanding of what its asking. And Im persuaded this placed the 
onus on Mr U to take reasonable care in answering it not to make a misrepresentation. 
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr U couldnt confirm the employment 
status of his tenant when he reported his claim. He told our service, after referring his 
complaint to us, that he thought his tenant might be on benefits. 
Mr Us tenancy is managed by a managing agent. He told our service his agent informed 
him, when the policy started, that his tenant was in receipt of medical benefits. It appears Mr 
U accepted this without making further enquiries. 
I think its understandable that Mr U believed what he was told by his agent at the time he 
incepted his policy with Direct Line. He was entitled to rely on the information he was given. 
And I can understand why he might have thought his tenant being in receipt of medical 
benefits meant they were receiving a disability allowance. I dont think its reasonable to 
have expected Mr U to have made any further checks based on the information his agent 
provided.
I can see our investigator made enquiries with Mr Us managing agent whos provided 
evidence that shows the tenant is receiving a qualifying disability benefit at the present time. 
But, based on the available evidence, it isnt clear whether he was at the time that Mr U 
incepted his policy with Direct Line.
While the statement about a tenants employment status was clear, I think Mr U agreed with 
the statement with the information hed been given by his managing agent in mind. I dont 
think it would be fair to say he guessed the answer when agreeing to the statement. Mr U 
relied on the information hed been provided by his managing agent. So, I dont think I can 
fairly conclude that he failed to take reasonable care when agreeing to the statement.
Direct Line has explained it wouldnt have provided cover to Mr U in circumstances where he 
didnt know information about his tenants employment status. Ive asked it to provide 
evidence of its underwriting criteria to confirm this. But Direct Line hasnt complied with that 
request  the only information its provided our service is written confirmation that it wouldnt 
have insured Mr U. 
Direct Line hasnt shown me its underwriting criteria to prove that it wouldnt have insured Mr 
U had it known his tenant wasnt in receipt of disability benefits. In the absence of that 
evidence, even if I did think Mr U had misrepresented information about his tenant to Direct 
Line, I wouldnt be able to fairly conclude that he made a qualifying misrepresentation. And 
this means Direct Line has no remedy under CIDRA.In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not satisfied Direct Line was entitled to 
cancel Mr Us policy in accordance with CIDRA. And I think it should deal with his claim. I 
also think it should pay interest on any settlement sum from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Direct Line to rely on it to cancel Mr Us policy doesnt produce a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
 
Putting things right
 Here, Direct Line avoided Mr Us policy and retained the premiums hed paid. As Im not 
satisfied theres been a misrepresentation here, I dont think the avoidance was fair. I also 
dont think it was fair for Direct Line to refuse to consider Mr Us claim.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited (T/A Direct 
Line) to carry out the following redress.
1. Reinstate Mr Us policy.
2. Reconsider Mr Us claim and, if it accepts it, settle it in line with the policy terms that 
applied at the time of the insured event. 
3. Pay 8% simple interest* on the amount of any claim it pays from the date of the claim 
until the date of settlement.
4. Remove records of the avoidance from any internal or external databases on which it 
may have been recorded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires UK Insurance Limited (T/A Direct Line) to take off tax 
from this interest. UK Insurance Limited (T/A Direct Line) must give Mr U a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off it if he asks for one.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman