DRN-4194278
The complaint
Mr J believes Moneybarn No.1 Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a conditional sale 
agreement hed applied for.
Mr J is being represented in this complaint by Company I. For ease of reference, my 
decision will refer to any actions or comments by either Mr J or Company I as being by Mr J.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr J was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The agreement was for £4,795 over 47 months, with monthly repayments of 
£179.55.
Mr J has complained that Moneybarn didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Hes said that he had a poor credit history, struggled financially during the agreement, and 
his income was insufficient to cover all his financial obligations. He thinks that, had 
Moneybarn done a detailed review of his bank statements and his income and expenditure 
when they assessed his application, then they wouldnt have approved it.
Moneybarn considered this complaint, but they thought theyd done adequate checks, which 
showed that Mr J could afford the payments. And they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr J wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Moneybarn said theyd checked Mr Js credit file, which verified his income, and they 
estimated his other outgoings using data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). And 
this showed the finance was affordable to Mr J. They also said that Mr J had signed a 
declaration to confirm his net monthly income was no less than £1,662, and his non-
discretionary monthly income was no more than £1,158.
Our investigator said that Moneybarn hadnt been able to evidence the checks they said 
theyd done, so he couldnt say if they were reasonable and proportionate. So, he 
considered what Moneybarn wouldve likely seen had reasonable and proportionate checks 
been done. And from this he didnt think Moneybarn had done anything wrong by approving 
the finance.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think it was fair to say he had a continual 
balance of more than £700 in his bank statements, as this was his rent payment. And, if this 
was discounted, then his actual balance would be less than £2. Mr J also provided additional 
bank statements which he says shows the finance wasnt affordable to him.
Mr J also said that his salary was £1,657 a month, with committed expenditure of £1,158 and 
non-committed spending of between £490 and £540 a month. Which left him with minimal 
remaining income each month [because of] very poor spending habits.
Because Mr J didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr J would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr J 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Moneybarn didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Mr Js 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of application. 
While Moneybarn have explained in detail the checks theyve done, and what these showed, 
they havent provided any actual evidence of the checks themselves. So, without a copy of 
these checks, I cant be satisfied that what was actually carried out was reasonable and 
proportionate, and that no further checks were required. As such, Ive gone on to consider 
what Moneybarn would likely have found had reasonable and proportionate checks been 
carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr J would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Ive seen a copy of Mr Js credit file, dated 18 February 2022. While this is dated after the 
finance was taken out, Im satisfied that the historic data will give a good indication as to 
what Moneybarn would likely have seen at the time.
The credit file shows that, as of March 2021, Mr J had no active credit, his phone and 
insurance payments were up to date, and his bank accounts were all conducted within their 
overdraft limits. It also showed that Mr J had had two previous short-tern high-interest loans, 
otherwise known as payday loans, but these were repaid in 2018 and 2020 respectively.
However, the credit file also showed that Mr J had ten historic defaults. While the presence 
of defaults is not a reason to automatically decline a finance application, as different lenders 
cater to consumers with different financial needs, Id expect these to be factored into any 
affordability calculations.
Of the ten defaults, two were repaid by March 2021, and Mr J was contributing £15 a month 
to two of the others. The remaining defaults had an outstanding balance of around £13,000.Mr J has also provided bank statements for the period 1 January 2021 to 30 April 2021. As 
the finance agreement came into force on 9 April 2021, and while I wouldnt necessarily 
have expected Moneybarn to ask for bank statements, I think the bank statements for the 
three months prior to the agreement give a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely 
have discovered if theyd asked about Mr Js income and expenditure at the time.
The bank statements show Mr J received a regular income of £1,663 a month, and that his 
regular committed outgoings averaged £303 a month. This includes council tax, some utility 
bills, phone and broadband payments, payments to the two defaults, as well as subscriptions 
to entertainment companies. Mr J has also confirmed that his rent payment was £700 a 
month. Allowing £100 for the missing utility bills, and £15 a month to each default that wasnt 
being paid, this brings his committed expenditure to £1,193. 
Ive noted these are similar figures to the £1,657 income and £1,158 committed expenditure 
Mr J says was the case at the time. So, Ive calculated Mr Js disposable income to be £470 
a month, while he says it was £499.
Mr J has also provided copies of statements for a number of other accounts he had, for the 
same period. Each of these accounts had an equal amount transferred in from, and back 
into, his main account. And they dont show any additional committed expenditure.
Mr J has referred to his partner, and hes not said his was the sole income. So, with a 
reasonably assumed joint income to contribute to things like food, petrol, and clothing; Im 
satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks showed Mr J had sufficient income to 
support the £179.55 payment to Moneybarn.
I have taken Mr Js comments that he had very poor spending habits into consideration, 
and the bank statements show regular transactions to take away food companies, fast food 
restaurants etc. Its not for financial businesses to tell consumers where and when they can 
spend their disposable income, and it was Mr Js choice to spend his how he wanted. 
However, as these payments were non-committed expenditure, I dont think that Moneybarn 
shouldve deducted these as part of any affordability calculation.
As such, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr J, Im satisfied that, 
had Moneybarn carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, then theres no valid 
reason why they wouldnt have found the finance to be sustainably affordable. And its for 
this reason why I wont be asking them to refund all or part of the payments Mr J paid, or of 
any interest and fees he may have been charged.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything else to make me think Moneybarn acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Andrew BurfordOmbudsman