DRN-3651577
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that IG Markets Limited (IG) failed to process a joint account 
application and merge existing accounts into it. They complain IG responded too slowly to 
their request to move assets from an account of Mr C to an account of Mrs C. They complain 
IG was difficult to contact during this period and its service was not fit for purpose. They 
complain that in response to these complaints - and others they raised about the transfer of 
ISAs - IG acted unfairly by insisting they close all their IG accounts, even though IG had 
accepted some parts of their complaints. They complain that the reasons IG gave for closing 
their accounts included unfair comments about their conduct.
Background
The complaint points above relate to joint accounts, a share transfer between an account 
held by Mr C and an account held by Mrs C and IGs decision to stop doing business with 
Mr and Mrs C, which affected all their accounts. During this same period IG handled the 
transfer in and transfer out of ISA accounts held by Mr C and Mrs C individually. Their 
complaints about those ISA transfers are being considered separately.
What happened
Mr C had been a customer of IG since April 2012. 
On 9 January 2021 Mr and Mrs C posted application forms to IG. These were for two ISAs, 
cash ISA transfers, a trading account for Mrs C and papers to get a joint account. On 
25 January they complained to IG of a lack of progress with their applications and difficulty in 
getting through to IG on chat (an instant messaging service) or phone.
On 4 February 2021 Mr and Mrs C told IG it had shown total incompetence and a dilatory 
attitude in its handling of both ISA transfers. On 5 February they complained formally about 
IGs handling of their applications, including that no joint account had been set up.
Mr and Mrs C said the service was dreadful and having an impact on their financial and 
personal wellbeing. They said IG hadnt delayed when it closed a position on Mr Cs account 
on 27 January, causing him substantial losses. They said not having had the joint account 
set up impacts on the significant tax losses Mr C had incurred as a result of IG closing his 
positions. Later in February IG credited funds received for Mr and Mrs Cs ISAs.
On 13 March 2021 Mr and Mrs C spoke to IG about transferring shares from Mr Cs account 
to Mrs Cs new account and then into her ISA (calling this bed and ISA). IG was to provide 
Mr and Mrs C with more on how this could be done. 
Mr and Mrs C also told IG they hadnt heard back about their joint account application. 
On the same day IG emailed Mr and Mrs C saying it was looking into their transfer query and 
expected to have more for them on that on 16 March. It also told them it couldnt find the 
joint application  and asked whether they wished to proceed with it.
In reply on 14 March 2021 Mr and Mrs C told IG they had definitely sent an application for a 
joint account in the envelope with their other applications  and that they had previously 
complained about the account not being set up but hadnt received any reply. They also said 
they did wish to go ahead with the share transfer as soon as possible and they asked what 
the charges for that transfer would be. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt hear more from IG on 16 March 2021 about the share transfer like IG 
had suggested they might. They still hadnt heard more on 18 March. They say they couldnt 
contact IG by chat or get through by phone. So Mrs C bought the shares herself using cash 
in her ISA. They told IG this on 18 March and said the share transfer was no longer needed. 
They told IG a delay of a few days wasnt acceptable given the shares were subject to a 
takeover that could complete at any time. They said their mitigating action in buying the 
shares had risked extra costs and risked missing out on price moves. They said IG was 
broken and not fit for purpose and was failing in its duty of care to private investors. They 
said they wanted to complain about this as IG had failed to act appropriately and speedily on 
an important financial transaction. They didnt say anything more about their joint application.
IG got in touch with Mr and Mrs C on 20 March 2021 about what the share transfer would 
cost if it went ahead. Mr and Mrs C repeated what they had already told IG about this no 
longer being needed. On 3 April IG emailed Mr and Mrs C saying the share transfer would 
be done. Mr and Mrs C replied to IG in total frustration on 5 April. They said IGs message 
had caused them more work, worry and frustration  as it was totally incorrect, given that 
they had cancelled the share transfer request and this had been acknowledged. They said 
they had previously given feedback in response to a 3 April request in which they gave IG a 
zero rating and told you exactly what I thought of your service. They said the message 
further strengthened their view. They said IG had completely failed to act expediently on 
their instructions despite promises made. They said: Why are IG staff so incompetent?
On 8 April 2021 IG responded to complaints made by Mr C, including that the joint account 
hadnt been set up. It offered Mr C £200 and apologised for not setting up the joint account 
and for service issues largely related to being difficult to reach by chat or phone. On 20 April 
IG offered Mrs C £300 for largely the same things and a delay in crediting cash to her ISA.
On 22 April 2021 Mr and Mrs C complained about their experience with the share transfer 
and related service points. They said it was a total shambles and they were forced to 
cancel their plan as a result of unacceptable service delays. They said IG seem to treat 
Clients finances like Monopoly Money They asked IG to consider how it would like to be 
treated if it were the client and how it would expect to be treated and compensated.
At the same time Mr and Mrs C asked IG to increase the £200 it had offered Mr C, with the 
increase being to compensate for delay in transferring in his ISA. IGs complaint response 
had said that it couldnt see any failings on its part in relation to that transfer. Mr and Mrs C 
raised a number of further points and questions in connection with that.
Mr and Mrs C also said there were significant financial implications of IG not having set up 
the joint account they had wanted. They said it may cause thousands of pounds differences 
in our individual tax bills because the taxation of losses or gains are treated differently 
depending on ownership of the asset and have a cut-off date of the Financial Year end.
Mr and Mrs C said any future losses or loss of profits and the £30,000 of these Mr C had 
incurred on two positions on his account couldnt be apportioned jointly due to IGs failure to 
set up the joint account. They said IG had been negligent and failed in its duty of care.
On 8 June 2021 IG rejected the share transfer complaint, saying it wasnt reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs C to have expected IG to process the share transfer as quickly as they had expected. It later said this could take anything up to a week to complete. Mr and Mrs C 
have said IG took seven days to give details of the charges before starting any work on the 
transfer, so IG wouldnt have completed the transfer within a week.
IG also at that time told Mr and Mrs C it no longer wanted them as clients. It said it had at 
times found their language towards staff rude and their clear and continued dissatisfaction 
and frequent complaints in recent months led it to question why they had chosen to stay with 
IG. It said it would close their accounts after 90 days (on 6 September) and in the meantime 
they would not be able to purchase new stock.
Mr and Mrs C told IG they were deeply offended by its suggestion that it had at times found 
your language towards IGs staff rude. On 15 June 2021 in relation this, IG said: I do not 
intend to once again review your prior correspondence with IG purely for the purpose of 
substantiating a statement I made concerning your language towards IGs staff. Our action in 
issuing notice of termination does not need substantiating, however sufficient reason has 
already been provided to you on this matter.
Mr and Mrs C contacted us with a report on all the above on 24 June 2021.
On 12 August 2021 IG added: There comes a point where it is simply not practicable to 
maintain a business relationship  given your belief that IGs service is not fit for purpose, it 
does not seem to be in either of our interests to continue with the relationship.
Mr and Mrs C considered IG closing their accounts to be tantamount to bullying and taking 
advantage of its position. They also said IG wasnt reasonable to issue final responses 
instead of discussing their grievances. They told us that in insisting they close their accounts 
IG was using unfair clauses in its terms and conditions to close down fair criticism and 
silence those suffering as a result of unacceptable service in its role as a stockbroker
Mr and Mrs C didnt want to close their accounts but on 8 August 2021 they told IG they had 
contacted another provider and initiated a transfer of their ISA accounts. On 31 August they 
complained to IG about its handling of the ISA transfers out (and on 19 October IG offered 
Mr and Mrs C £50 for an error with Mr Cs ISA)  and also about the overall standard of 
service received from IG, the reluctance of IG to answer questions, IG ignoring requests to 
justify their personal accusations against their clients or discuss their clients grievances and 
closing down accounts to avoid any conversations they may find embarrassing.
The provisional decision I sent the parties outlined events as I have above and neither party 
has taken issue with that sequence. My provisional decision upheld the complaint in part. It 
said there were shortcomings in IGs service so it should compensate Mr and Mrs C for the 
frustration and inconvenience caused - in particular the difficulty they had contacting IG by 
phone or on its chat and IGs failure to set up the joint account. It said IG should pay them 
£300 for all this. It also said the failure to set up the joint account hadnt caused a financial 
loss that IG should redress. It also said IG was entitled to end the business relationship and 
its decision to do so was reasonable given that the gap between its service and the service 
Mr and Mrs C wanted put both parties at risk of loss - noting the share transfer transaction in 
particular. It also said the evidence didnt justify what IG had said about rude language being 
used towards IGs staff. It said IG should apologise to Mr and Mrs C for that suggestion and 
for having suggested that it gave grounds for closing their accounts.
IG responded and had nothing new to add. 
Mr and Mrs C rejected my provisional decision. They said they were extremely disappointed 
with the response. They made a number of other points, including, in brief summary:Just before the cancellation of their accounts they had very many problems and errors 
with IG on all the accounts they held or had applied for. They both experienced errors 
and delays on the transfer of accounts both into and out of IG and on the transfer of ISA 
cash out of IG. A substantial loss was incurred by Mrs C as a direct result of the delay of 
the ISA cash. IGs sub-standard and very poor service, exacerbated by our even slower 
responses, have involved them in many, many, hours of unnecessary work and research 
to try to resolve matters.
IGs accusations were totally unprofessional and had denigrated Mr C and it had refused 
to provide supporting evidence. 
It wasnt fair for IG to cancel all their accounts worth around £126,000 in an apparent 
revenge action brought on due to multiple, justifiable complaints against IG that were 
mostly upheld by IG. It was not reasonable for IG to do this without giving them any 
chance to discuss the situation.
While acknowledging their complaints and frustrations were justified, my provisional 
decision failed to enforce any measures to make IG raise its standards to what one 
would reasonably expect from a global financial institution. It allows IG to get away with 
only paying a small fine for carrying out work to an inappropriate standard, rather than 
upholding correct business or working standards. In the long run this can be harmful. I 
was influenced by our service not meeting its own standards meaning I cant criticise IG.
My provisional decision lacked regard for their reasonable expectations, was consistently 
lenient towards IG and didnt provide adequate protection for them as customers paying 
for a financial service and entrusting IG with around £126,000 of their investments. Nor 
did it compensate them adequately for the hours of work and distress required to make 
IG acknowledge its many shortcomings.
Each of their complaints had been considered in isolation without regard to the other 
errors and poor service that permeated IGs interactions with them. My assessment was 
long but only covered some of the shortcomings and failings they had reported.  
As elderly clients paying for services from a global company in the financial services 
sector, they were fully justified in expecting IG to provide a standard of service expressly 
required from a professional regulated company entrusted with pensioners hard-earned 
savings. Before trading apps, clients would contact brokers in person or by phone and 
trades were executed almost immediately. Stock market prices change in milliseconds, 
so accuracy and speed are absolutely necessary to protect clients finances and fulfil a 
stockbrokers duty of care to its clients. It seems in the 21st century it is unreasonable for 
members of the public to expect businesses to perform well and provide good and 
efficient service, even when the service is paid for. Sadly, financial institutions have very 
much lower standards of governance and enforcement than that of yesteryears. 
Many institutions are currently performing disgracefully but that isnt the standard by 
which IG should be judged. A few businesses still perform well and they brought to my 
attention one that performed far better when handling the transfer of their ISA monies. 
Also they have received prompt restitution recently from other financial organisations or 
regulators for things that went wrong. 
Unnecessary delays in expediting client instructions are tantamount to negligence. My 
provisional decision seems to say it is acceptable for IG to choose to give a sub-standard 
service even though it applies high charges, appearing to completely ignore IGs duty of 
care obligation whilst entrusted with large sums of clients money. IG is fully supported in 
its total lack of regard for its clients financial or mental well-being. They on the other hand have absolutely no leeway regarding their slow response or payment.
It appears clients have to wait an undefined and protracted period for payments, despite 
payments having become faster in banking, but must pay immediately to protect the 
position of the broker. This totally unequitable situation allows large firms to abuse their 
position and profit from the extended retention of client monies, understaffing, poorly 
trained and under supervised staff and the failure of governing bodies to adequately 
police and penalise them.  
IG cancelled their accounts in revenge after they justifiably complained of shortcomings. 
My provisional decision was alarmingly lenient towards IG, which at best has abused its 
position, using an unjustified and unsubstantiated reason to close their accounts. It is 
insulting to suggest that IG make a hollow apology for unjustifiably denigrating them, by 
accusing Mr C of using rude language towards its staff and citing this as a reason to 
close their accounts, particularly given the involvement of a senior supervisor in all that.
Failings are not everywhere but, where they are, the solution is not to cancel accounts 
and then prevaricate on expediting share and cash transfers, nor to denigrate clients but 
to raise standards of ethics and performance, rather than further alienate those that have 
helped fund their bonuses.
The purpose of their approach to our service was to seek assistance after they felt 
abused, aggrieved, bullied, denigrated and frustrated by very many errors and poor 
service from a global financial services company of which Mr C had been a loyal client 
since 2012. This a David and Goliath situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint on the same basis and for broadly the 
same reasons as in my provisional decision. Ive briefly summarised my reasons below. 
IG failed to process Mr and Mrs Cs joint application like it should have done. Mr and Mrs C 
mentioned tax implications but havent pointed to any losses that did actually arise from this. 
They have mentioned positions closed before the end of January 2021 that made losses and 
might have been held on the joint account instead. But in my view those losses arose before 
IG could reasonably have been expected to get the joint account open. Also there were still 
ways, in the absence of the joint account, Mr and Mrs C couldve organised the ownership of 
positions so as to divide potential losses between them. In this regard I note that Mrs Cs 
account was up and running before the end of the tax year. 
Taking everything into account, what I have doesnt make me think that IGs failure to set up 
the joint account caused Mr and Mrs C tax or other losses for which IG should pay redress. 
But the fact IG didnt process - and it seems lost - the application, was clearly frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs C. In addition, IGs phone and chat facilities during the period werent offering 
them the level of service they ought to have been receiving - IG has accepted that contacting 
it was difficult due it says to very high demand for its service at the time - causing frustration 
and inconvenience. So I think it fair IG pays redress to Mr and Mrs C for that. 
Turning to the share transfer, I dont find IG at fault for not having carried this out in the few 
days before Mr and Mrs C decided to take alternative steps  during which time they were 
awaiting information on costs of the transaction, rather than awaiting its execution. IG had 
said the reply about costs might come straightaway (the next working day) but it came four days later than that. So it was slow and was also after Mr and Mrs C had told IG they werent 
going ahead with the transfer. They received a further communication about this some days 
later. These late and out of date responses no doubt caused inconvenience and annoyance. 
I think it fair that IG pays redress of £300 to Mr and Mrs C for inconvenience and annoyance 
caused by the shortcomings Ive identified above. To be clear, my redress is for detriment 
IGs failings caused Mr and Mrs C  it isnt intended to punish IG or to act as a deterrent.
I dont overlook that the failings Ive identified above were experienced by Mr and Mrs C in 
the context of other issues, with their ISAs. Ive mentioned the ISAs above in that context, 
although the specific issues with them are being considered elsewhere. But I reach my view 
on redress in this case mindful of the overall situation.
Turning to IGs decision to close Mr and Mrs Cs accounts, I note this was permitted under 
its terms and I take that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances of this case. I also note that, as Mr and Mrs C have said, the way in
which IG failed to live up to their expectations was a way IG itself acknowledged was not
good enough in some respects, as indicated by its offers of redress. 
But I am persuaded IGs decision to close the accounts was made after IG took the view that 
there was a gap between the level of service Mr and Mrs C expected and wanted and the 
level of service IG was offering or could deliver. Also Im persuaded that IG took the view 
that this gap wasnt just due to IGs errors  and so was liable to persist rather than being 
something it could fix. I say this bearing in mind that IG made its decision after rejecting 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the share transfer on the basis that the timescale in which 
they had expected that to be carried out wasnt something IG could or would aim to meet. 
Also I note that the consequences of the gap between the service Mr and Mrs C wanted and 
what IG was willing to provide, were not trivial  according to Mr and Mrs C it carried the 
potential to cost them thousands of pounds in tax losses or to cost IG thousands of pounds 
in compensation payments. With this in mind, I dont find IG at fault for taking the decision it 
took to end the business relationship. I dont think it would be fair to require IG to provide its 
services where it has grounds to think it likely its services, if provided to the standards it aims 
for, would be found wanting.  Also Mr and Mrs C, on their own evidence, could suffer large 
losses as a result of that service and they might avoid those by doing business instead with 
a firm able and willing to meet their requirements. Overall, ending the relationship appears to 
me to have been a reasonable course of action for IG to have taken.
I would emphasise that I do not take this decision lightly. Mr and Mrs C rightly point out that it 
would be unfair for IG to close their accounts on the grounds that they raised complaints 
about its service  perhaps even more so if those complaints were justified. But I find that IG 
did have a valid and reasonable reason as Ive described above. 
My view is also reinforced by Mr and Mrs C having objected to IG issuing final response
letters in reply to their complaints, as opposed to entering into ongoing discussions with
them about the issues and about its level of service. In my view it was reasonable for IG to
issue its final response to each complaint and it is not at fault for not wishing to enter into
further discussions about how its service levels might be increased or about the merits of not
increasing them. I dont see that it would be reasonable to expect IG to have entered into 
discussions with Mr and Mrs C about upgrading or altering the service it offered in general.
So, taking everything into account and forming a view on what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances, I have decided there arent grounds to find IG at fault for the decision it 
took to close Mr and Mrs Cs accounts.I note though that one of the reasons given by IG was that Mr and Mrs Cs language had
been rude to IGs staff. Mr and Mrs C have complained about IG making that suggestion. 
Ive considered this carefully.
I note that the service IG offered Mr and Mrs C did fall short in various ways which will have
been frustrating  so it isnt surprising if they expressed their frustration and dissatisfaction.
Indeed they were entitled to do so regardless of whether their complaints about the service
were justified or not. But Ive not found, in the correspondence and calls Ive been given,
anything that in my view obviously corresponds with or could fairly be said to support IGs
suggestion that Mr and Mrs Cs language towards IGs staff was rude. I note that when 
asked to particularise and justify that suggestion, IG chose not to do so - instead preferring 
to emphasise that it did not see continuing the relationship as likely to be mutually beneficial.
With all this in mind, I dont find grounds to justify IGs suggestion concerning language rude 
to its staff, and I find IG should not have said this to Mr and Mrs C or suggested that this 
gave valid grounds for closing their accounts. I can understand why this upset Mr and Mrs C. 
Mr and Mrs C say requiring IG to apologise would result in a hollow apology. I do accept 
that an apology one has to make has a different quality to an apology volunteered. But I still 
think it just and appropriate that IG apologises to Mr and Mrs C for the suggestion it made 
and our rules give me power to make directions - so Ive decided to direct IG to apologise.
In light of all Ive said above and for the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint on the basis and to the extent Ive said above. I thank all parties for their 
assistance and Im grateful to Mr and Mrs C for all their prompt and detailed submissions.
Putting things right
IG Markets Limited should pay Mr and Mrs C £300 for the inconvenience and upset caused 
by the failings Ive identified in the transactions above. IG Markets Limited should also send 
Mr and Mrs C a written apology for suggesting that they used rude language towards its staff 
and for suggesting that this gave it grounds to close their accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. IG Markets Limited should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman