DRN-1341414
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for a mortgage in 1995. 
The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The policy was in Mr Hs sole name and 
gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was said in the meeting but Ive looked at the available paperwork. On 
their mortgage application form Mr and Mrs H indicated that they wanted PPI. And the form 
gave them the option to select or decline PPI. Mr H then completed and signed a separate 
PPI application form, answering a number of questions to confirm his eligibility. The cost of 
the PPI was set out separately on this form.
Overall, I think Halifax made it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs H chose to 
take it out for Mr H. I can understand they might not remember this given how long ago the 
sale was.
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr H to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what I know of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr H says he was entitled to a generous sick pay allowance, but he is unsure now of the 
exact benefit. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 
months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave him up to 12 months 
redundancy cover which would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy 
payment from his employer, giving increased financial stability whilst he wasnt working. 
Mr H also said he had some savings but the PPI would have allowed him to use these to 
cover other living costs whilst he wasnt working, or to save them for their future needs. 
Mr and Mrs H were borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. So the 
effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs H if Mr H was sick, had an accident or lost 
his job. I know Mr H has told us he cancelled the policy in 2008 when he realised the cover 
wasn't as good as his work benefits. But he hasn't been able to confirm the details of his sick 
pay in 1995, or how much he had in savings. So I can't fairly conclude that at that time his 
circumstances were such that he wouldn't have bought the policy if he had been better 
advised.  
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs H all the information they needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. The cost was made clear on the PPI application form and the cover was 
apparently affordable. But I dont know that the bank pointed out the main things the PPI 
didnt cover. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
- Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
- To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman