DRN-3868484
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined an 
income protection claim and cancelled the income protection element of a suite of policies 
hed taken out including life and critical illness insurance (the policies). Hes also unhappy 
with the service received by L&G.
Although Mr W is being represented in this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout as he 
is the policyholder.
What happened
Mr W applied for the policies in or around April 2020 through a broker. When doing so, he 
was asked a number of questions  including about his health and medical history. L&G 
agreed cover and the policies commenced. 
In early 2022, Mr W made claims on the income protection policy in relation to time off for a 
hip operation, and for sepsis (the claim). L & G requested medical information. And upon 
receipt, and consideration, of the same, the claim was declined. It concluded that Mr W had 
made a qualifying misrepresentation when answering certain questions when applying for 
the policies. L&G said that had Mr W declared a problem with his hip, it wouldve still offered 
him income protection but wouldve applied an exclusion to the policy. However, because it 
also concluded that Mr W had answered certain questions without any care as to whether 
the answers given were right it cancelled the income protection policy from the date it started 
but refunded the premiums paid for it. 
Unhappy, Mr W complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what happened and 
didnt uphold his complaint.  Mr W disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Declining the claim and cancelling the income protection policy
When considering this issue, Ive taken into account The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) as I think its relevant here. CIDRA requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case L&G) has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G says Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering medical questions about whether hed ever had arthritis or joint trouble when 
applying for the policies  and had received treatment over a continuous period of 4 weeks 
or more, during the past 12 months. 
Overall, I think L&G has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr Ws claim under the 
income protection policy. And also cancelling this policy and refunding premiums back to the 
start date. Ive set out my reasons below.  
When first applying for the policies, Mr W was asked a number of questions about his 
medical history including: 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
Lupus, fibromyalgia, gout or any type of arthritis, neck, back, spine or joint 
trouble, for example rheumatoid arthritis, sciatica?
Ill refer to it as the medical question and the parties agree that Mr W answered no.
Im satisfied that the medical question is clear, and I dont agree that there were 
shortcomings in the question as Mr W says. 
When L&G reviewed Mr Ws claim, it concluded that hed answered the medical question 
incorrectly.  Thats because in April 2020  so around six months before applying for the 
policy  Mr W had attended a telephone triage appointment with a doctor. His GP notes 
reflect that this was due to known hip OA and he wanted the doctor to prescribe him with 
an anti-inflammatory painkiller which hed run out of because he didnt find paracetamol or 
codeine effective. 
Further, at the end of December 2022  so a couple of months after applying for the policies 
 his GP notes reflect that he had ongoing hip pain. Its also reflected that Mr W thought his 
mobility had become progressively worse in the last 12 months. Theres mention of Mr W 
wanting a steroid injection and being advised many years before that he may need a hip 
replacement later in life. I think this further supports that the reason Mr W consulted with his 
doctor in April 2020 was due to his hip. 
Given Mr Ws medical records, Im satisfied that L&G has fairly and reasonably concluded 
that he answered the medical question incorrectly. 
Mr W says he answered no to the medical question because it had been over five years 
since hed last seen a doctor in relation to his arthritis. However, Im satisfied that L&G has 
reasonably concluded that the telephone appointment which took place in April 2020 related 
to his arthritis (or at the very least joint trouble). He wanted the doctor to prescribe 
medication to help him manage the pain. And Im satisfied that a reasonable person would 
reasonably interpret this appointment as having seen a doctor. So, I dont agree with Mr W 
that there wasnt a doctors visit to declare. 
I think the medical question clearly asks whether Mr W had seen a doctor or other medical 
professional. I dont think a reasonable person would conclude that the question was limited 
to an in person appointment  particularly as the application was made shortly after the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic where it was common to have medical appointments 
by telephone or, otherwise, virtually.
Im satisfied L&G has fairly concluded that Mr W made a qualifying misrepresentation under 
CIDRA. And that its fairly concluded that Mr Ws misrepresentation was deliberately or 
recklessly made.
Taking into account Mr Ws explanations about why he answered questions in the way he 
did, I dont think hes given a credible explanation supported by the facts for the 
misrepresentation having occurred when considered against the medical evidence, 
summarised above. Nor do I think there are any credible mitigating circumstances to explain 
why he answered certain questions about his health in the way that he did. 
Given the nature of the medical evidence  particularly the GP note from April 2020 -  I think 
L&G has fairly concluded on the balance of probabilities that Mr W knew, or must have 
known, that the information given was incorrect or misleading (or  at the very least - acted 
without any reasonable care as to whether the information was correct or misleading). And 
as the medical question was asked before agreeing to insure Mr W, I think he ought to have 
known that the question being asked was relevant to L&G  or he didnt care about whether 
or not it was relevant to it.
L&G has provided underwriting guidance showing that if Mr W had answered the medical 
question correctly  and it had been aware of his hip problem/arthritis  it wouldve added an 
exclusion. So, I think the answer to the medical question mattered to L&G and was directly 
relevant to its decision to offer Mr W the policies  including income protection cover  on 
the terms it did. 
Ive looked at the actions L&G can take in line with CIDRA when its concluded a deliberate 
or reckless misrepresentation has taken place. Under the legislation its entitled to cancel the 
policy and retain the premiums. And it doesnt have to pay any claims made on the income 
protection policy as it can treat the policy as if it never existed. 
Thats what L&G has done here, albeit its agreed to refund the premiums paid for the policy 
to the start date. I think thats more than it was reasonably required to do, and I think its 
acted fairly and reasonably.  
Its important to add that L&G also concluded that Mr W had incorrectly answered no to 
another question when applying for the policy about whether (during the last 12 months) hed 
had any medical condition, illness or injury for which hed received treatment over a 
continuous period of 4 weeks or more. I dont think I need to make a finding about whether 
Mr W had answered this question incorrectly based on the medical evidence  and whether 
hed made a qualifying misrepresentation (deliberate, reckless or careless). Thats because 
even if he hadnt made a qualifying misrepresentation when answering this question, for the 
reasons set out above, I think L&G has reasonably concluded that hed (at the very least) 
answered the medical question without any reasonable care as to whether the information 
was correct or misleading. 
L&G has also redrawn the remainder of the suite of policies in line with its underwriting 
guidance on the basis that the income protection policy was optional and, so, a severable 
benefit. L&G offered Mr W the opportunity to cancel the remaining cancel cover and refund 
the premiums paid to the start date if he didnt wish to proceed with the revision of the policy 
terms. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
DelaysWhilst the claim was being assessed by L&G, Mr W complained about the way in which the 
claim was being handled including delays. L&G has an obligation to handle complaints fairly 
and promptly.  
After the complaint was brought to our service, when providing its response, L&G told us that 
it agrees that it caused some avoidable delays with the management of the claim and 
offered £400 compensation in recognition of the impact this had on him. 
I can see that this was a worrying time for Mr W, which wouldve been exacerbated by the 
delays caused by L&G assessing the claim. And he spent time chasing L&G for an answer 
which I accept would be frustrating. Im satisfied £400 compensation fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Putting things right
L&G should pay Mr W £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ws complaint but only in respect of his concerns about the service he 
received after claiming on the income protection policy. I direct Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited to pay him £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman