DRN-2568198
The complaint
Ms L has complained about the way Unum Ltd dealt with her income protection claim.   
What happened
Ms Ls representative has brought the complaint on her behalf. All references to Ms L 
include any submissions made by her representative.
Ms L has a group income protection insurance policy through her employer with a deferred 
period of 26 weeks, underwritten by Unum. The policy pays a benefit if Ms L is unable to 
work due to illness or injury during the deferred period and beyond.
In 2018, Ms L became unwell and made a claim. But Unum declined the claim as it didnt 
think Ms L met the definition of incapacity. 
Ms L complained and so Unum re-assessed the claim and decided Ms L did meet the 
definition of incapacity. It made a backdated payment to her in May 2019 and also offered 
£200 compensation for the delay. Ms L returned to work in April 2019 and so Unum ceased 
payment of benefit from that date.
Ms L remained unhappy as whilst she was without pay or benefit, she had to borrow money 
and her condition worsened. And she didnt feel Unum had kept her updated. She became 
absent from work again in April 2019. Unum reviewed the medical evidence but didnt think 
there was enough to show that Ms L had had a relapse in April 2019 and so it declined to 
pay any further benefit. 
Ms L referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
didnt think Unum had acted fairly so she asked it to re-assess the claim from when Ms L 
became absent from work again. She said Unums delay in accepting the claim had caused 
significant distress and inconvenience and recommended it pay 8% simple interest per year 
on the benefit amount and £1,000 compensation.
Unum agreed to re-assess the claim but didnt agree compensation of £1,000 was 
warranted. Ms L also disagreed with the level of compensation as she said she had to use 
credit to buy every day essentials such as groceries and her credit rating was affected which 
she says hasnt been taken into account.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The group income protection policy pays a benefit if Ms L is unable to work due to illness or 
injury after a deferred period of 26 weeks. 
Ms L became unwell in 2018 and after the deferred period ended, was due payment of 
benefit from October 2018. Ms L confirmed in her complaint form to us that her employer 
had made a payment to her until November 2018 and Unum had agreed to make a payment 
to her in December 2018 whilst assessing the claim, as a gesture of goodwill, due to delays. 
Ms L didnt receive any payment in January 2019 and in February 2019, Unum declined the 
claim. 
Ms L started a phased return to work in March 2019 and resumed full time work in April 
2019. But she then became unwell again and absent from work towards the end of April 
2019.
Following Ms Ls appeal against its decline of the claim, Unum agreed to accept the claim 
and paid Ms L benefit up until April 2019, when she returned. It made this payment in May 
2019 and so between January and May 2019, Ms L did not receive any pay or benefit and 
had to borrow money from her ex-husband. He confirmed he provided financial support to 
pay rent, utilities and buy food. Ms L also turned to other friends and family as her ex-
husband wasnt able to cover all of her outgoings. 
Unum agreed to re-assess the claim for the period after April 2019 and Ms L has confirmed 
the claim was accepted and that benefit has been paid and backdated. I wont comment on 
that aspect of the complaint any further. If Ms L is unhappy with the time it took to re-assess 
the claim or the way the re-assessment was handled, she will need to make a new complaint 
to Unum.
My decision is limited to the initial decline and delay. As the claim was accepted and paid, 
what remains in dispute is the amount of compensation Unum should pay to Ms L. 
The investigator had recommended £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms L when Unum initially declined her claim. I agree that it had unfairly declined 
the claim in the first instance as it had medical evidence available to it in January 2019, 
which demonstrated that Ms L met the definition of incapacity. And had it accepted the claim 
at an earlier stage, Ms L wouldnt have been deprived of the benefit payment between 
January and May 2019. 
Ms L has explained how the delay in receiving the payment affected her, which Ill 
summarise here:
She was never told what stage the claim was at, if extra information was needed or when 
a decision would be made.
She needed financial support from October 2018 and she chased for updates regularly. 
By the time Unum confirmed it would cover the payments, Ms L was frantic with worry, 
not sleeping and suffering with anxiety and depression. 
Her ex-husband had to step in to support her. By the time Unum agreed to cover the 
payments in October 2018, Ms L had already borrowed money on credit and from family 
and friends. When she received the payment, she re-paid some but not all as her 
borrowing was more than her income. 
During Christmas 2018, Ms L was withdrawn and it was a very difficult time having to 
chase for payment and to make ends meet. By the end of January 2019, Ms Ls ex-husband had to move in with her and he covered 
almost all of her expenses for that month. 
After Unum declined the claim, Ms L went into a deep depression. And her ex-husband 
again covered her rent and expenses. 
By March 2019, Ms L decided to go back to work to keep a roof over her head. She 
agreed to a phased return but she didnt earn enough to cover her expenses and so her 
ex-husband agreed to help her financially again. 
Ms L went back to work in April 2019 and although she appeared to be coping, she had 
sleepless nights and deep depression. In addition, her daughter was also unwell. 
In May 2019, Unum paid Ms L for the period up to April 2019 but this wasnt enough and 
she remained in debt and was being chased by creditors. 
Ive seen the following evidence in Ms Ls medical records:
In February 2019, Unum declined the claim. Ms L saw her GP and the medical notes 
show she may be fit to work on a phased return. She started a phased return to work in 
March 2019. She also told her specialist that her brother had lent her a large sum of 
money to manage her finances as she had spent all of her savings.
In March 2019, Ms L went back to work on a phased return and started full time hours 
from 7 April. She went off again on 22 April 2019 due to low mood.
In May 2019, her medical records show she was referred to a psychologist, was now 
stable and back on medication and felt positive. Unum agreed to accept the claim and 
made payment up to April 2019, which is when Ms L returned to work.
Unum says it paid £200 compensation to recognise the delay in the payment but didnt think 
£1,000 was suitable compensation as it didnt have details of the impact on Ms L. Ive 
considered everything Ms L has said as well as all of the available medical evidence and 
reports to consider the impact of Unums delay on Ms L.
Its clear from the above history, that Ms L had to borrow money to manage her finances and 
also had the support of her ex-husband. I agree with the investigator that the delay in accepting the claim caused financial hardship 
and unnecessary and avoidable distress to Ms L at a time where she was already struggling 
to cope with her mental health. Unum should have accepted the claim in January 2019 and 
as it didnt do so until May 2019, Ms M was deprived of benefit payments for four months. In 
this case, Im persuaded by Ms Ls testimony and how the delay in receiving benefit caused 
her stress, anxiety and embarrassment. 
As set out above, Ms L has clearly explained that she had to borrow money from family 
members and at the time of borrowing such large sums, she wouldnt have known that she 
could pay this back. In addition, she was relying on her ex-husband for support when dealing 
with the appeal to Unum and this significant distress and inconvenience lasted until she 
received the decision from Unum in May 2019. So, for a number of months, Ms L was faced 
with uncertainty and distress about finances which could have been avoided had Unum 
accepted the claim in January 2019.
Ms L doesnt think £1,000 takes into account how her credit rating was affected. But the 
£1,000 is in addition to the 8% simple interest which Unum should have paid to recognise 
that Ms L was deprived of the funds for a number of months. And Ms L also told her 
specialist that she had borrowed large sums of money from family members which she 
would have been able to pay back when she did eventually receive money from Unum. 
In addition, Ms L received payment each month until December 2018 but has noted that she 
was still in debt. Unum paid what was due under the terms of the policy and if Ms Ls 
outgoings were higher than the benefit due to her, I cant hold Unum responsible for that or 
ask it to compensate Ms L for that.
In addition, as set out above, the evidence from March 2019 onwards demonstrates that Ms 
L had successfully completed a phased return to work and had started full time hours on 7 
April 2019 until she became absent again on 22 April 2019. At that point, Unum were correct 
to request medical evidence but decided there was insufficient evidence to demonstrate 
incapacity. However, Ms L remained off work and continued to seek medical help and so 
Unum should have requested and reviewed further medical evidence, which it agreed to do. 
Following its re-assessment of further medical evidence, it agreed to pay the claim. The-re-
assessment of the claim doesnt form part of my decision so I cant consider the impact of 
Unums actions when it re-assessed the claim. If Ms L thinks Unum took too long when re-
assessing the claim, she would need to make a further complaint to Unum. If she remains 
unhappy with any response she receives, she can refer her complaint to this service as a 
new complaint. Anything covered in this decision, which is the period up to April 2019, wont 
be looked at again.
So overall, I think £1,000 compensation and 8% simple interest per year is appropriate in all 
the circumstances of this case. If Unum hasnt already paid the 8% simple interest, it should 
do so now and calculate this from the date each payment was due, to the date the payment 
was made. And it should pay the £1,000 compensation directly to Ms L as the distress and 
inconvenience payment doesnt form part of the insurance contract between Unum and the 
policyholder.
Ms L has talked about the distress and inconvenience caused to her ex-husband and 
daughter, but I can only consider the impact on her and cant ask Unum to compensate her 
ex-husband or daughter.
In addition, Ms L says Unum failed to keep her updated. But Ms Ls employer is the 
policyholder and so Unum would contact her employer. I wouldnt expect Unum to update 
Ms L directly.   My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Unum Ltd to:
Pay Ms L £1,000 compensation directly for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on the benefit amount which was paid in May 2019, 
from the date each payment was due, to the date payment was made, if this hasnt 
already been done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman