DRN-3663261
The complaint
Mr Y has complained about the mid-term additional premium he was charged for his motor 
insurance by Advantage Insurance Company Limited when he changed his address.  
What happened
Mr Y held a motor insurance policy with Advantage.  
In August 2021 he told them that he would be moving house in September 2021. 
Advantage advised that there would be an additional premium of £103.22, comprising 
£83.22 pro rata increase in premium and £20 change fee. 
Mr Y paid this, and then later tried to cancel it because he felt the increase was too much, 
and that it didnt seem right. 
He complained, but Advantage refused to reduce the increase in costs, saying that the 
increase would have been based on historical data for the postcode together with other 
facts. 
Mr Y considers that his new postcode is lower risk and the circumstances of the move make 
his car safer, not more at risk. He complained that Advantage havent explained how the 
increase has been calculated, that they are taking advantage, and that they didnt respond to 
him about his request for information on cancelling the policy. 
Mr Y brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ys complaint and he thought that Advantage 
had acted fairly. 
Mr Y disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
As we arent a regulator, I cant say what an insurer should charge for a policy, nor comment 
on whether a policy is too expensive, or a policy increase is too high. As long as the insurer 
treats all customers in similar circumstances the same, they are entitled to charge what they 
feel is appropriate to cover risk. Different insurers may have different tolerances for the same 
risk, and that is why premiums are variable between insurers. 
However, what this service can do though, when a consumer complains about the price he 
or she has been charged, is look at whether the insurer has treated the consumer fairly, and 
whether it can explain why its charged the price it has. We can then explain to the consumer 
that weve checked the price theyve been charged and are satisfied that theyve been 
treated fairly, and in line with the way the insurer has treated all its other customers with 
similar circumstances. 
Unfortunately, Im unable to do this for Mr Y. 
We expect insurers, when dealing with a mid-term adjustment, only to re-rate on the factor 
that has been changed, in this case the new address. As the new address presents a 
change in risk, its fair to reassess the risk posed but everything else should remain the 
same. We dont think its fair for an insurer to use it as an opportunity to review all the factors 
and re-rate the entire policy. 
So, to ensure that Advantage have treated Mr Y fairly, I have asked them to provide me with 
the evidence and data which shows how the additional premium was calculated. The 
premium increase over the year is significant, at over a 50% increase. 
Advantage have provided me with ratings documents for before and after the change, but 
the figures on these documents dont bear any relation to the premiums charged, and there 
is no explanation of how any differences in the ratings have impacted the premiums.
I have subsequently asked Advantage to provide further comments on how the ratings feed 
into the premium calculation but they have responded that they have no further comment to 
make. 
  
And so, Im unable to explain based on the evidence provided by Advantage, why Mr Y has 
been charged an additional premium when he changed address. In the absence of that 
explanation I think a fair and reasonable resolution for Mr Ys complaint is for Advantage to 
refund the additional premium of £83.22 plus interest for the date it was collected until the 
date of the refund. 
I wont be asking them to refund the change fee as this has been correctly charged in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy for undertaking the address amendment. 
Cancelling the policy
Mr Y complained that Advantage didnt tell him how to cancel the policy when he asked. 
I cant see that they did respond specifically on that issue, but Ive looked at the updated 
policy documents which were sent to him on 30 August 2021. This document gives Mr Y 
information about cancelling the policy. It says that premiums will be refunded on a pro-rata 
basis for the period of cover that hasnt been used, minus the 14 day cooling off period and 
any other non-refundable fees. It also advises to get in contact to cancel the policy.
Im satisfied that Mr Y was provided with sufficient information regarding cancelling the policy 
and so the responsibility was with him for contacting Advantage to cancel the policy if he 
was unhappy with the premiums.
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to partially uphold Mr Ys complaint and I 
invited the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent Mr Y and Advantage a copy of my provisional decision. Both have replied and 
accepted my provisional decision.
I am therefore making my final decision for the reasons Ive summarised above. 
 Putting things right
In order to put things right, I think Advantage should refund Mr Y the £83.22 additional 
premium he has paid, plus 8% statutory interest on that sum from the date that it was paid 
until the date of the refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ys complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right as above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman