DRN-2936724
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim on his motor insurance policy 
following the theft of his car.
 
What happened
Mr Ps car was stolen when he had left the key in the ignition whilst he retrieved some 
belongings from his house. AXA declined the claim because of the keys in car exclusion in 
Mr Ps policy. It later also said that Mr P had acted recklessly. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was unfair 
for AXA to rely on the keys in car exclusion as he thought Mr P hadnt left the car 
unattended. And he thought it was unfair for AXA to say that Mr P had acted recklessly due 
to the circumstances of the theft. He thought AXA should deal with the claim, adding interest 
to any settlement, and pay Mr P £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
AXA replied that its policy stated that it wouldnt cover any claims where the keys were left in 
the car, so it thought it had acted correctly in declining the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
The policy terms that AXA relied on to decline the claim were:
Section 2: Loss or Damage:
What is not covered:
(I) Loss of/ or damage to the Insured Car arising from Theft when the ignition keys, lock 
transmitter or entry card for a keyless entry system are left in or on the Insured Car whilst it 
is unattended.
(m) Loss of/ damage to the insured car arising from Theft if the insured Car was not switched 
off, properly locked or if any door, window, roof opening, removable roof panel or hood was 
left open or unlocked
I think these are common exclusions in motor insurance policies, and I dont find them 
unusual or unreasonable. But they are significant, and I would expect them to be set out in 
the policy wording and in the summary or Key Facts document. And I can see that the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) sets out the exclusion for keys left in the 
unattended car. And so I think its reasonable for AXA to rely on it to decline a claim.
The circumstances of the theft were described by Mr P to AXAs investigator and to our 
service and have been consistent throughout. It was early morning in winter and so still dark. 
Mr Ps car was parked on his driveway by the front door. Mr P said he put the key in the 
cars ignition, but he couldnt recall if hed turned on the ignition. He stepped back inside his 
front door to collect some belongings. The door was left ajar and was two to three feet away 
from his car. Mr P locked his house, turned around and then saw his car being reversed out 
of his driveway. He wasnt able to stop the thief. 
So the key was in the ignition of the unlocked car. I think it was most likely that the ignition, 
and therefore the cars lights, were on as this would have alerted a thief to the opportunity for 
theft. But Mr P was never more than three feet away from his car which was on his driveway 
in a residential area. He had stepped inside his front door, but this was left ajar. 
Therefore I think Mr Ps proximity was such that he was in a position to likely deter a thief. 
And so Im satisfied that Mr P hadnt left his car unattended. The keys in car exclusion relies 
on the car being unattended. For this reason, I think it was unfair and unreasonable for AXA 
to rely on the keys in car exclusion to decline the claim. 
AXA also said it relied on the exclusion that the car was unlocked to decline the claim. But I 
think the term implies that the car must be locked whilst unattended. And so I think, for the 
same reasons Ive given above, its unfair for AXA to rely on this exclusion to decline the 
claim as Im satisfied that the car wasnt unattended.
AXA later said that Mr P had been reckless, and this was a further reason to decline his 
claim. I can see that the policy, under General Conditions, requires Mr P to take reasonable 
steps to protect his car from loss or damage. But the test we use, as established by the 
courts, is that to be deemed to have acted recklessly a consumer must recognise that there 
is a risk but not take steps to avert it. 
In Mr Ps case, he was parked on his driveway close to his door in the dark of early morning 
when it was unlikely there would be anyone around. So Im satisfied that Mr P didnt consider 
there was a risk involved in stepping back into his house to collect his belongings. And so I 
think it was unfair and unreasonable for AXA to decline the claim for this reason. 
And so, in conclusion, I think AXA unfairly and unreasonably declined Mr Ps claim for the 
theft of his car. And I think it should now consider this. If a settlement is made, I think AXA 
should add interest to this as Mr P has been without his car and money for some time. And I 
agree with the investigator that AXA should reasonably pay Mr P £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset declining his claim has caused him. This is amount is in keeping with our 
published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
1. Deal with Mr Ps claim under the remaining terms and conditions of his policy.
2. If a settlement is made, AXA should add interest to this at the rate of 8% simple from the 
date of loss to the date of payment .
3. Pay Mr P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
repudiation of his claim. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. So AXA must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman