DRN-3372654
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement by Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited was not of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In January 2021 Mr W entered into a five-year conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
for a used car. The car was seven years old and had covered nearly 104,000 miles. It cost 
£5,990. 
In April 2021 Mr W had the car serviced. The service included a diagnostics check and 
cleaning of the diesel particulate filter. 
In August 2021 Mr W noticed a knocking sound coming from the engine. Unable to resolve 
the issue, he raised it with Moneybarn. Further investigation indicated the noise was coming 
from one of the cylinder heads, but that the engine would need to be dismantled to establish 
the exact cause. In September 2021 the car broke down. 
Moneybarn was unable to deal with Mr Ws complaint promptly and referred him to this 
service. Later, it suggested that an independent inspection be carried out; that took place in 
early December 2021. It confirmed that the likely cause of the knocking sound was a failure 
of a piston or crankshaft bearing. The inspecting engineer did not however believe that the 
fault had been present or developing when the car was delivered to Mr W. Moneybarn did 
not consider therefore that it was liable to Mr W.
Mr W referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered his 
complaint. He was not persuaded that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at delivery and so 
did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditional sale agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in all the 
circumstances  including its age, price and mileage. 
The car in this case was seven years old and had a very high mileage. Its price was 
significantly lower than the price of a similar new car. I think most people would expect it to 
need some work during  and possibly quite significant work  during the course of the 
conditional sale agreement.
The independent inspection report concluded that the faults most likely developed after Mr 
W had taken delivery of the car, and it noted that he had driven it around 4,000 miles since 
delivery. 
Satisfactory quality does cover matters of wear and tear. What is wear and tear depends on 
a number of factors, but I think the mileage and age of the car  even at the point when Mr 
W took delivery  is significant here. Whilst many vehicles can, and do, continue without 
problems for longer than this one, I think that the problems here can be put down to age and 
use of the car. I am not persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality. It follows that I 
cannot properly uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman