DRN-2970123
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd. She isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a theft claim under her motor insurance policy. And the fact that it avoided 
her policy (treated it like it never existed) and turned down her claim. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint as well, but as Accredited Insurance 
are responsible for it, Ill just refer to them in this decision.
What happened
Mrs H took out her car insurance policy with Accredited Insurance online. And when her car 
was stolen she made a claim under her policy. 
Accredited Insurance looked into the circumstances surrounding the theft but ultimately said 
shed answered the question it asked about her employment status incorrectly. And it 
considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it 
to avoid the policy and decline the claim. 
Mrs H complained to this service and one of our investigators looked into things for her and 
upheld her complaint. He thought that Accredited hadnt shown that there had been a 
misrepresentation by Mrs H or the named driver on the policy and thought that Accredited 
Insurance should reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim. And that it hadnt acted fairly 
when it cancelled the policy and so it should remove any cancellation markers and pay Mrs 
H a small amount of compensation for the stress and inconvenience all this has caused.
Accredited Insurance didnt respond to the Investigator or provide its underwriting criteria 
showing that it would have acted differently. So, the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Accredited Insurance thinks Mrs H failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she didnt disclose that she was unemployed. 
Ive looked at all the information both sides have provided and Im satisfied that Mrs H didnt 
misrepresent her position. She said in her application that she was a Housewife in what 
was described as her main employment. Although I accept that this could be construed as 
unemployed I think Mrs Hs description of why she wasnt working (looking after her 
grandchildren) sits with this. And as our investigator explained Accredited Insurance could 
have questioned this at the point of application if it wished as Mrs H had been very clear in 
answering its questions. 
But I think it is clear that Mrs H description of her occupation at the time of application was 
fair. And I think she took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she applied 
for the policy in March 2019. So, although Accredited Insurance may not have insured Mrs H 
(according to the snippet of their underwriting criteria that it provided) if she was 
unemployed. It would of insured her on the basis of the correct information she provided 
upon application.
Turning to the additional driver information that was provided, the named driver said that his 
main occupation was as a Labourer. While Accredited Insurance has gone on to say that he 
was employed as a delivery driver and it had some information to support this position. 
So, I can understand why Accredited Insurance suggested that there was a 
misrepresentation here. However, our investigator has clearly asked it to provide its 
underwriting criteria showing that it wouldnt have insured the named driver, but it hasnt 
provided this. Its not enough for an insurer to just hint or suggest that this is the case, it 
needs to show us. And the named driver maintains he wasnt a delivery driver. 
As such, I cant be sure whether this would or wouldnt have affected cover in any event. 
And Accredited Insurance could have looked to simply remove the named driver from cover 
if it wished. So, I dont think it would be fair for Accredited Insurance to avoid the policy, 
retain the premium and decline the claim.
Ultimately, I think that Mrs H took reasonable care and provided a true answer to Accredited 
Insurances questions. So in effect, as there wasnt a misrepresentation and Accredited 
hasnt shown that it wouldnt have offered cover for the named driver Im upholding this 
complaint. And therefore, the actions taken by Accredited Insurance are unfair and not in line 
with CIDRA.
Given this I dont think Accredited Insurance has acted reasonably in declining the claim and 
avoiding the policy. So I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case, is for Accredited to reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy and to pay Mrs H £150 compensation for the 
stress and trouble all this has caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. And I require 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to;
reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy;
remove any record of the cancellation from any internal or external databases and 
provide a letter of explanation to Mrs H; andpay £150 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman