DRN-4397845
Complaint
Mr R complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement were 
unaffordable. 
Background
In January 2023, Oodle provided Mr R with finance for a used car. The purchase price of the 
vehicle was £4,848.00. Mr R paid a deposit of £103.40 (£396.60 of the £500 he paid was for 
settling the outstanding balance on his previous agreement) and entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with Oodle for the remaining £4,744.60. 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £3,147.36 (comprising of interest of 
£3,146.36 and an option to purchase fee of £1), and a 56-month term. This meant that the 
total amount to be repaid of £7,891.96 (not including the deposit) was due to be repaid in 55 
monthly instalments of £140.91, followed by a final instalment of £141.91. 
Mr Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Oodle had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint 
should be upheld. Mr R disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Rs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
Oodle needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Oodle needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr R before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Rs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Oodle says it agreed to this application after Mr R provided details of his monthly income. It 
says it also carried out credit searches on Mr R which showed some outstanding balances. 
But when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr Rs living expenses were 
deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the other 
hand, Mr R says the monthly payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr R and Oodle have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Oodle didnt simply accept Mr Rs declarations at face 
value as it carried out credit checks. However, given what Oodle would have seen on the 
credit checks, its debateable whether it was reasonable to rely on an estimate of Mr Rs 
living costs, rather than finding out more about what they actually were. 
That said, I dont think that this makes too much of a difference here as Oodle is still likely to 
have lent to Mr R even if it had found out more about his actual living expenses. I say this 
because the information Mr R has provided does appear to show that when his committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from his monthly 
income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due 
under this agreement. 
I accept that Mr R might have been using an overdraft. But this doesnt in itself mean that 
Oodle shouldnt have lent. Particularly as Oodle was providing Mr R with the funds to buy a 
car and his previous car finance agreement was being settled so he wouldnt have to make 
the payments to that agreement going forward. 
Furthermore, what I need to think about here is what did Oodle need to do in order to answer 
the questions its initial checks left unanswered  in other words, what were Mr Rs actual 
regular living expenses (bearing in his credit commitments were already validated by the 
credit search)?  given this was a first agreement and Mr R was being provided with a car 
rather than cash. 
While Mr Rs existing indebtedness has some relevance, bearing in mind the information 
provided now does not clearly demonstrate that Mr Rs living costs meant that he couldnt 
afford the monthly payments, Im satisfied that doing Oodle doing more wont have led to it 
reaching a different conclusion on lending to him. 
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while its possible that Oodles checks 
before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr R may not have gone far enough, 
Im satisfied that carrying out further checks wont have stopped Oodle from providing these 
funds, or entering into this agreement. 
So Im satisfied that Oodle didnt act unfairly towards Mr R when it agreed to provide the 
funds. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for       
Mr R. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least consider that his 
concerns have been listened to. 
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like to remind Oodle of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it be the case that Mr R is experiencing 
difficulty making the payments to his agreement.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman