DRN-2089032
The complaint
Mr L says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him irresponsibly. 
Mr L is also unhappy in the manner that Satsuma dealt with his complaint.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Satsuma agreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and made an offer in-line with the adjudications recommendation. But 
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators outcome. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part 
of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr L took 6 instalment loans between June 2015 and June 2018. Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £800 13/06/2015 18/12/2015
2 £600 27/02/2016 09/03/2016
3 £800 30/04/2016 17/08/2016
4 £1,600 21/09/2016 10/02/2017
5 £400 06/05/2017 24/05/2017
6 £1,000 15/06/2018 27/08/2018
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Satsuma to have granted loans 1, 2, 3 or 6. But
he thought the remaining loans (4 and 5) shouldnt have been given.
Satsuma accepted that something may have gone wrong when it provided loans 4 and 5, so
it agreed to refund interest on these loans together with 8% simple interest. It also agreed to
remove any adverse information about these loans from Mr Ls credit file.
Mr L appears to agree with the adjudicators view about loans 4 to 6. But he disagrees that
Satsuma wasnt wrong to lend loans 1 to 3. In summary, Mr L feels all these loans shouldnt
have been lent as:
his overall financial situation was poor at the time;
he had seven outstanding defaults and other credit commitments which Satsuma
wouldve known about had it completed appropriate credit checks;
thered been signs of financial difficulty during loan 1 as he couldnt keep up with the
repayments.
Mr L also says the adjudicator hasnt considered what he has said about Satsumas
complaint handling, including the time taken to review his complaint.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website. And while Im still intending to partly uphold Mr Ls
complaint, I think an additional loan should be upheld and Ive explained why below.
Mr L doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Satsuma wasnt wrong to
lend loan 6. It seems therefore that this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I
need to make a finding about it.
Ive also not considered whether Satsuma should have lent loans 4 and 5 as it has already
agreed it shouldnt and offered to put things right in line with the adjudicators
recommendation. I understand that a cheque has been sent to Mr L for the value of the
refund for these loans. So instead, this decision will focus on whether Satsuma did anything
wrong when it lent loans 1 to 3.
For the lending that remains in dispute, Satsuma had to assess it to check if Mr L could
afford to pay back the amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in
a way which was proportionate to the circumstances. Satsumas checks could have taken
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the
repayments and Mr Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages
of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Satsuma should have done more to establish that any
lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearlydemonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his instalment
loans  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able
to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The
Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
loans 1 and 2
Loan 1 (£800) was due to be repaid over 52 weeks with weekly repayments of around £29.
Mr L declared an income of £1,985 and monthly expenditure (housing, financial and other
commitments) of £736. Satsuma also carried out a credit check and included any undeclared
credit commitments that it could see together with a further buffer. For loan 1 this meant
Satsuma used overall expenditure of £1,338.94. Leaving Mr L with around £646 of
disposable income.
Considering the amount borrowed and with no previous lending history, I think the checks
went far enough. And based on the checks Satsuma completed Im satisfied that loan 1
wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable.
I think its important to say that I dont think Satsuma at this stage was required to complete
a full review of Mr Ls circumstances. Furthermore, the information a consumer might see,
when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender
at the time of application. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some
data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may
explain any differences between the information Satsuma saw and what Mr L says shouldve
been seen.
I appreciate a couple of scheduled repayments were declined during loan 1. From what I can
see though, weekly payments were broadly paid throughout the actual term of the loan and
no defaults or late payment fees were charged. Following each declined payment, the actual
weekly repayment due was made without any significant delay. So, whilst I appreciate that
Mr L hadnt made every repayment on the due date, I dont think there was quite enough
evidence by this point to say that he wouldnt be able to repay loan 2s weekly repayments
(around £23) sustainably as a result.
Loan 2 (£600) was lower and taken out over two months after loan 1 had been repaid. Mr L
declared significantly higher financial commitments for this loan (£500). Satsuma also
increased the expenditure declared further by an additional buffer (including any undeclared
credit commitments it saw) leaving Mr L with a disposable income of around £265.
Looking at everything together, I think the checks went far enough and I think it was
reasonable for Satsuma to consider loan 2 was affordable and sustainable.
loan 3
Loan 3 was lent the month after loan 2 was repaid. There was an increase in the loanamount to £800 with similar repayments to loan 1. It was also the third time that Mr L had
taken out a loan which was due to be repaid over 52 weeks. And the manner in which Mr L
used loan 2  taken out and repaid within a month  is similar to how a payday loan would
be used. And Loan 1 was also repaid much earlier then scheduled.
So by now I dont think it was reasonable of Satsuma to have relied on what Mr L told it 
after all Mr L was now potentially extended his indebtedness for a further 12 months. Instead
Satsuma needed to gain a full understanding of Mr Ls actual financial position to ensure the
loan was affordable and was able to be repaid sustainably. This couldve been done in
several ways, such as asking for evidence of outgoings, or as Ive done here, looking at Mr
Ls bank statements. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether
there was any other information that Satsuma mightve needed to consider about Mr Ls
general financial position.
From what I can see when looking at Mr Ls bank statements before loan 3 was lent, his
overall credit expenditure (including credit cards, personal loans, car finance and short-term
loans) exceeded his income. So, in my view he was unlikely to be able to repay loan 3 in an
affordable and sustainable way.
Im therefore upholding Mr Ls complaint about loan 3. And Ive set out what Satsuma should
do to put things right as detailed below - Ive also included loans 4 and 5 which as Ive
explained Satsuma has already agreed it shouldnt have lent.
complaint handling
Mr L complained to Satsuma on 9 April 2019 and it acknowledged the complaint on 15 April
2019. I can see that Satsuma was late in issuing its final response letter, but it did refer Mr L
to this service on 4 June 2019 as it was unable to reply in the eight-week regulatory time
limit. And Id expect Satsuma to issue a holding letter if it wasnt in a position to issue a full
response to the complaint.
Mr L then referred his complaint to us on 8 June 2019. Mr L was therefore able to refer the
complaint to us for consideration despite the delay, although I can appreciate his
disappointment at not receiving a response.
Mr L is also unhappy with content of the final response and has made several comments
about it. Im not going to address every point raised by Mr L (or by Satsuma for that matter).
Here Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and what I think
affects the outcome. But Ive considered everything each party has said to decide what I
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr L responded with the following points 
for me to consider;
Satsuma had already admitted fault in relation to loan 6. In its offer issued 24 
January 2020, Satsuma conceded to refund interest on loans 5 & 6. Therefore, Mr L 
says loan 6 should be added to loans 3,4 & 5 in the total refund.
Satsuma issued Borrowing Summaries for each loan which include the term how 
much did your loan cost. The figures quoted seem to be different to what Satsuma 
are using to calculate the redress in their previous offer. A Borrowing Summary, is a record of the cost of the loans. So, Mr L wishes for the interest refunded to reflect the 
Borrowing Summaries. He has calculated this to amount to be £3,765. However, if 
Provident honours its Borrowing Summaries, he would be prepared to ignore loan 6 
and accept £2,773 plus interest.
 
Satsumas offer dated 24 January 2020 implies it was making an offer for loans 5 and 6. We 
got in touch with Satsuma and it would like to offer an apology for the confusion as it has 
explained that the offer and redress calculations were based on loans 4 and 5. But due to a 
typo, its letter included the agreement numbers for loans 5 and 6. Id also point out that if Mr 
L has cashed the cheque that was provided with the letter Satsuma is entitled to take this 
sum into account when working out the redress. 
Our adjudicator had previously looked into Mr Ls sixth loan and could see that this was 
taken out around 13 months after Mr L repaid loan 5. The adjudicator thought the break in 
lending was substantial enough to consider loan 6 as a separate chain of borrowing to loans 
1-5. Subsequently, after investigating loan 6, he didnt think Satsuma did anything wrong 
when it provided the loan. Having reviewed loan 6 again, I agree with the adjudicator and I 
dont think Provident was wrong to have provided this loan given the break in lending and 
what it knew about Mr L at the time. 
Prior to receiving my provisional decision, Mr L told us he agreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for loans 4, 5 and 6. But he wanted an ombudsman to look into his concerns for his 
first three loans. Following Satsumas offer letter, its understandable that Mr L believed 
Satsuma had also upheld loan 6 due to the way the offer was presented. But Im satisfied 
that this seems to be an error, and that Satsuma has provided the redress calculations for 
loans 4 and 5. As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Satsuma were wrong to 
approve Mr Ls third loan as well and therefore, any redress will need to include this loan as 
well. 
Mr L has provided a Borrowing Summary for each of his loans. The figures quoted under 
how much did your loan cost seems to be the cost of the loan had Mr L run each loan to 
term. But, for many of the loans Mr L repaid his loans early, meaning he wouldnt have paid 
as much interest. 
But to be clear Satsuma will need to work out how much interest (including any late fees and 
charges) Mr L actually paid for each loan that it was wrong to provide  so loans 3, 4 and 5. 
It is this sum that is refund along with 8% simple interest. It may be helpful if Mr L accepts 
the final decision that Satsuma provides him with a breakdown of how it calculated the 
refund. 
Satsuma didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, taking 
everything into account I still think Satsuma was wrong to have provided loans 3  5. And 
Ive outlined below what Satsuma needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
Considering what Satsuma has already agreed to do, in order to put things right it should, in
total:
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 3, 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about loans 3, 4 and 5 from Mr Ls credit file;
provide Mr L with a breakdown as to how the above refund has been caculated*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold Mr Ls 
complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman