DRN-4029299
The complaint
Miss S complains through a representative that My Finance Club (MFC) provided her with 
loans without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Miss S took three loans from MFC and Ive outlined a summary of her borrowing below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm of 
agreement 
(days)
1 £400.00 17/06/2021 28/07/2021 38
2 £400.00 28/07/2021 12/08/2021 28
3 £300.00 17/08/2021 28/09/2021 28
MFC didnt respond to Miss Ss representatives complaint, instead after eight weeks, the 
case was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and it wasnt upheld. He concluded MFC 
made a reasonable decision to provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate 
checks which showed the loan repayments to be affordable. He also didnt think MFC 
needed to have verified the information Miss S had provided. 
Miss Ss representative didnt agree, and initially provided a copy of Miss Ss bank account 
statement. The adjudicator went back and explained to the representative why he didnt think 
MFC needed to have reviewed these. Miss Ss representative then asked for a final decision. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the amount shed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ss income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S. 
MFC was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss S was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint.
Before these loans was approved, MFC carried out he same sort of checks. Firstly, MFC 
asked Miss S about her income, and she declared that for all three loans she earned £2,846 
per month. And for each loan MFC verified Miss Ss income by obtaining a copy of her wage 
slip so it knew the information Miss S had provided was accurate. 
In terms of monthly expenditure, her total monthly outgoings were the same for each loan 
that was granted. In total Miss S declared monthly outgoings of £1,965 to cover items such 
as housing, food, transport, creditors and other. This left monthly disposable income of £881 
to afford her largest repayment (due for loan 1) of £521.60.
Before the loans were approved MFC also carried out credit searches and it has provided 
the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
MFC carried out credit searches there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one 
to a specific standard. And what MFC couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not 
react to the to the information it received.  In my view, MFC was also entitled to rely on the 
results it was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in anyway 
inaccurate. 
Ive reviewed the credit file results MFC received for each loan and there isnt anything 
contained within it that wouldve given MFC cause for concern. Miss S appeared to be 
managing her existing creditors well as she was within her credit limits set for her credit 
cards and there wasnt any evidence of missed or late payments. The credit check results 
wouldnt have prompted MFC to have carried out further checks into Miss Ss financial 
position. 
Ive also considered that loan 1 was repaid slightly later than planned. However, this seems 
to have occurred because the original payment due date wasnt aligned with Miss Ss pay date. The system notes show that Miss S requested to move the loan repayment date and 
MFC agreed  which wasnt an unreasonable course of action to have taken. Its worth 
saying as well that loan 2 was also repaid. So, I dont think, given that loan history MFC 
needed to be any more concerned at loan 3 then it had been for the other loans. 
There was nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led MFC to believe 
that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Miss S had provided. So, while Miss S has provided her bank statements, in this case, 
taking account of her loan history it wouldve been disproportionate for MFC to have 
considered them. 
Given the relativity short period of time Miss S borrowed from MFC, I think it was reasonable 
for MFC to have relied on the information Miss S provided such as details of her expenditure 
to show she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayment she was committed to 
making. MFC also verified her income. Finally, there also wasnt anything else to suggest 
that Miss S was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be 
unsustainable for her for any other reason. 
Im therefore not upholding Miss Ss complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman