DRN-2519133
The complaint
Mr Ms complains that he was mis-sold a loan by Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank as he wasnt given information about how the early settlement figure would be 
calculated on his loan.
What happened
Mr M entered into an agreement with Tesco for a personal loan of £35,000 in August 2016. 
The total amount of interest was £16,079.56 which was spread across a total number of 84 
repayments. The total amount payable was £51,079.56 with agreed monthly repayments of 
£608.09.
The Fixed Sum Loan Agreement includes the following words:
At the beginning of the loan we work out the interest youll pay over the whole length of your 
loan and add this to your loan amount. We calculate your interest charge by applying interest 
at a monthly rate based on the APR to the balance of your loan, as reduced by your monthly 
repayments. We add this to the loan amount then divide this total by the number of monthly 
repayments.
Mr M said the above wording indicates his interest and capital payment to reduce equally 
over the term of the loan, so this is what he expected. He said nothing is mentioned in the 
agreement he signed which was contrary to this expectation.
Pages 2 and 3 of the agreement states he can repay all or some of the loan early. It includes 
the following:
You can make additional payments to reduce what you owe including repaying the loan off in 
full. If you pay off your loan early in full we will make an interest charge of 28 days deferred 
interest and it may also include an amount equal to 30 days interest
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that when 
Mr M applied for the loan, he was provided information about the interest rate, total interest 
payable and total amount payable. The investigator agreed that no specific information was 
given to Mr M regarding the allocation of payments. Tesco confirmed it doesnt give details 
regarding payment allocation, but this can be requested as per the credit agreement. The 
general terms of the credit agreement confirm customers can request a breakdown of 
repayments (amortisation table) explaining the difference between capital and interest for 
future repayments. The investigator thought as this information wasnt requested over the 
course of the loan, he couldnt agree that Tesco has acted unfairly by not giving this 
information to Mr M.
The investigator considered the specific section from the Fixed Sum Loan Agreement quoted 
by Mr M and mentioned above. He thought this section relates specifically to Mr Ms monthly 
repayments over the full term of the loan. He didnt think this section indicates how the early 
settlement figure would be calculated. He noted further that the Agreement specifically 
outlines that payment allocation information can be requested.
The investigator couldnt agree that Tesco had misled Mr M or that the credit agreement 
gives any inaccurate information about payment allocation when calculating the early 
settlement figure. He also thought it wasnt unusual for loans to be based on an amortisation 
schedule in the way this loan was.
Although Mr M wasnt provided with specific information regarding payment allocation before 
entering into the loan the investigator didnt think it was fair to say Tesco did something 
wrong by not providing this when there was no requirement to do so, especially since Mr M 
didnt request for this information.
Finally, the investigator didnt think the loan had been mis-sold to Mr M. The investigator said 
Tesco highlighted the key facts relating to the loan including the monthly repayments, 
interest and term and this was agreed by Mr M. Early settlement figures are calculated in line 
with Tescos procedures and information about this can be requested.
Mr M disagreed. He said all the commercial terms should be written clearly for the consumer 
to understand what they are signing up to. By allowing loan providers to add this is available 
upon request into their agreements defeats the purpose of consumer law and transparency 
between the customer and the service provider especially when there is an unequal 
bargaining power between the two parties. When he eventually received the information 
about how the payments were allocated, he was provided with a document that an ordinary 
citizen would find it difficult to understand. He reiterated that the credit agreement did not 
explain the payment allocation. He thinks the approach taken by Tesco isnt the approach 
taken by some other banks and he thinks those banks take the approach he was expecting 
Tesco to take. He thinks it is crucial to have the information at the outset about how amounts 
would be calculated if an agreement comes to an early end. He maintains he was mis-led 
both at the outset when no one explained to him how the agreement works and during the 
loan when he was told by Tescos we are not legally allowed to give that information. He 
thinks the literal interpretation of the agreement means that the interest and capital payment 
to reduce equally over the term of the loan, so this is what was expected.
The investigator issued a second view. In it he said he didnt think saying that something is 
available on request means that Tesco wasnt being transparent. He noted the basic terms 
of the loan were presented at the start of the loan and he didnt think its unreasonable for 
specific terms about how interest is calculated to be made available upon request as its 
reasonable to think that the majority of customers complete repayments for the full term of 
the loan as its a loan intended for long term borrowing. The investigator further noted in the 
document titled Understanding your loan interest there is a section thats subtitled allocation 
of interest under where it says the following:
At the start of the loan, a higher proportion of your monthly repayment is allocated to 
repaying interest. However as you start to make more repayments, we allocate less of the 
monthly repayment to repaying interest and more towards reducing the capital until your loan 
is completely repaid.
The investigator thought this was a clear explanation of how the interest is allocated. He 
couldnt agree that Mr M had been misled into thinking that the capital and interest reduce 
equally over the term. The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for the interest 
calculations not to be provided at inception. It was enough that they were available on 
request. The investigator reiterated his view that the sentence Mr M thinks is key was 
explaining things when the loan is paid over the whole length of the term. He thought the 
information Mr M had about the explanation of allocation of interest clearly indicates that the
interest and capital arent reduced equally over the term of the loan.
Mr M disagreed. He maintained there was no certainty of terms in the initial agreement that 
his repayments were being used towards the interest over the first few years. Had he known this his decision to enter into this agreement would have been different. He also wanted to 
point out that he entered into this agreement online. So, it is not unreasonable to expect 
clarity and transparency from the outset.
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision not because I disagreed with the outcome proposed by the 
investigator but because I intended to make some points that Mr M and the business hadnt 
had the chance to respond to.
I said I had a great deal of sympathy for Mr M. I thought, when he came to think about 
paying off the loan, he did expect to have to pay less than he had to pay. I thought he would 
have found this even more frustrating when he tried to find out what was going on and was 
told that he couldnt have some of the information he wanted for legal reasons. And when 
he eventually got more information, he found that the calculations were not easy to follow for 
anyone who was not, as he said advanced in mathematics. I noted in its final response 
Tesco did say that it would pass on Mr Ms feedback on how early settlement figures (ESF) 
are calculated to its relevant teams. I said I was pleased to see this. I also said Mr M is 
clearly a highly articulate and sensible person and so if he misunderstood how the ESF was 
calculated then reviewing the terms to see if they can be made clearer would be beneficial.
All the above however didnt mean I agreed with Mr M that Tescos misled him or that he 
was mis-sold. I thought it was reasonable for Tesco to say that some information was 
available on request. As I said before, I found Mr M to be an articulate and sensible person I 
thought he would have been more than capable of requesting this information if he had 
wanted to see it before entering into the loan. I didnt think the fact that he applied for a loan 
online changed that. I said I thought it was most likely it wasnt something that concerned 
him until he decided he wanted to pay off his loan. And it was only then that he looked at the 
information he had and incorrectly deduced how the ESF would be calculated. 
I said I could see why he made the deduction he made based on the wording he had in front 
of him, but I thought in doing so he took a leap in interpreting a clause which I saw as 
explaining how the monthly repayments were calculated to make them even across the term 
of the loan. Mr M had said that the way Tesco apportions payment isnt how some other 
lenders do this exercise. I said it is, however, in line with the most common way Id seen. 
Consumers are protected regarding the calculation of ESFs by the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. Tesco had stated that the rebate was calculated in line with 
that regulation and I said I couldnt see anything which suggests that wasnt the case.
So, in conclusion, I said I didnt think Mr M was misled when he took out the loan. I didnt 
think Tesco had a responsibility to explain how payments would be allocated at the outset of 
the loan given it offered to provide this information on request. I didnt think the clause Mr M 
had pointed out should be read in the way that he read it. And I didnt think Tesco had acted 
unfairly although I did understand his frustration.
Responses to my provisional decision
Tesco accepted my provisional decision. Mr M didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has asked me to consider anything new, I see no reason not to confirm my 
provisional decision and do so here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman