DRN-3037382
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has continued to deal with her claim for water 
damage to her home unfairly under her home insurance policy. And hasnt paid her 
adequate compensation for whats shes been through.
What happened
Mrs Bs home was water damaged in 2013 and she claimed to AXA. She was unhappy with 
the handling of her claim and repairs and brought a complaint to our service. In February 
2017 an ombudsman sent a final decision and said AXAs compensation of £1,900 was fair.
After this it became clear that AXAs suppliers hadnt made sure Mrs Bs property was dry 
and the works to the kitchen and lounge had to be stripped out and redone. That meant Mrs 
B and her family had to move out of the property again while AXA put this right.
Mrs B made another complaint to AXA about the problems it had caused and said AXA had 
made it more difficult for her to move home. In August 2017 AXA offered £2,000 further 
compensation which Mrs B rejected. She brought a further complaint to our service and 
another final decision was sent in October 2019. The ombudsman considered what had 
happened since the previous decision and said compensation of £2,500 should be paid. 
AXA paid Mrs B £2,000 for a lost watch and wouldnt increase this in the absence of 
evidence of her ownership, or the model. Mrs B said she had provided AXA with a copy of 
her fathers will stating that the watch was to come to her plus a photo of the watch. 
Mrs B said poor workmanship by AXAs contractors meant kitchen repairs took several 
months to complete. She said AXA had taken seven years to part complete a wet wall and 
floor. She said AXA acknowledged her floor was wet in August 2017 and admitted it had 
carried out repairs incorrectly. She said AXA insisted on a further survey.
Because of long-running differences between Mrs B and AXA over her home claim they 
agreed to use an independent surveyor. His report set out work to conclude the claim. Mrs B 
subsequently said she didnt accept the report, but AXA she had accepted settlement based 
on the surveyors arbitration and it had paid accordingly. It said Mrs B had chosen to employ 
the surveyor to carry out the work and her dissatisfaction with him wasnt AXAs concern. 
Mrs B complained to AXA again about poor repairs and damp, particularly in her kitchen, her 
sink, loss of her watch, damage to her garden, claim handling and not being able to sell her 
home. She wants substantial compensation for AXAs negligence causing her loss of seven 
years of decent family life and preventing her from moving from a damp, unfinished house.
Our investigator said we couldnt consider things already subject of our final decisions, or 
anything more than six months before Mrs B brought her latest complaint in October 2020. 
She said Mrs B had received a guarantee about the kitchen and the supplier had agreed to 
repair the units. She said AXA had paid Mrs B £150 for her electrical socket and £350 for her 
garden and £2,000 for her watch, which Mrs B hadnt proved ownership of. She said AXA 
had recently made an update payment to Mrs B for her alternative accommodation. 
Concerning AXAs claim handling our investigator said Mrs B agreed that the surveyor that 
reported on the claim be appointed to manage it and so it was no longer under AXAs 
control. She didnt think AXA needed to do anything more in respect of Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this and requested an ombudsman review her complaint. She said 
shed never accepted the assessment of her kitchen and hadnt employed the surveyor. She 
said we have been negligent in our reviews and wanted her previous complaints re-opened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mrs B has made a further request for the information we hold about her 
complaint. Because of exceptional demand this may take several months, but it doesnt 
affect the outcome of her complaint. I have decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I 
realise this is not the outcome she was hoping for, but I hope she will understand my 
reasons for reaching my decision. 
AXA paid Mrs B £2,000 for her lost watch in December 2019. It said in the absence of 
information of ownership and the model it wouldnt pay any more. Insurers generally want to 
verify claims for high value items and its the policyholders responsibility to prove their loss. 
Mrs B hasnt shown ownership of the watch to AXA and it is entitled to know the exact 
model. In the circumstances I think AXAs offer of £2,000 in settlement is reasonable. If Mrs 
B provides verification of her claim in future, AXA should review this.
Mrs B wants us to re-open her previous complaints and re-consider the issues she has 
raised from 2016 onwards. I cant consider any complaint issues that Mrs B has raised that 
have been addressed in our previous final decisions. This means I cant consider previous 
delays and handling issues or whether or not Mrs B was disadvantaged by AXA in trying to 
move home, or the compensation AXA has paid her about the things that went wrong. 
Our ombudsman who wrote the final decision in October 2019 said that, appointing an 
independent expert was a constructive way forward in the circumstances. Given the state of 
the relationship between Mrs B and AXA I think the appointment of the independent surveyor 
was a positive step in the resolution of the claim and I think this led to several issues being 
resolved. This arrangement started before the ombudsmans decision and shortly after AXA 
paid further compensation for its poor claims handling. 
From what Ive seen, Mrs B agreed that the surveyor that reported on her claim would take 
over the management of the claim on her behalf and paid him from her cash payment from 
AXA. I can see that she has since disavowed the surveyors report and this arrangement, but 
I dont think that is AXAs fault. I dont think AXA are to blame for issues that occurred under 
this arrangement and I think Mrs B needs to direct any problems to the surveyor. To be 
clear, the surveyor hadnt been contracted by AXA and arent under AXAs control. 
So far as Mrs Bs sink is concerned she mentioned that it has been shoddily fitted, and AXA 
has offered her £300 for this work. I havent seen an estimate for this work and so I cant say 
if this is reasonable. Mrs B needs to tell AXA if the offer is acceptable, or why it isnt. AXA 
has said it will check if a guarantee for the kitchen units can be transferred to Mrs B. 
AXA agreed the approach to the work put forward by the independent surveyor and so its 
unfortunate the relationship between the surveyor and Mrs B has broken down. AXA has 
recently said that its approach to the claim is to maintain a list of claim issues and it will remedy these where it has liability or explain that it doesnt have liability. I think this is the 
best way in which the parties can continue towards completion of the claim. AXA said 
several items on the list have been dealt with but it feels its difficult to keep Mrs B focussed 
on current matters rather than issues dealt with historically, or in prior complaints. 
 
I havent found reason for AXA to pay Mrs B further compensation for its handling of her 
claim since our service sent the previous decisions. However, I think all parties should make 
it a priority to work together to resolve any outstanding issues with the repairs carried out at 
Mrs Bs home. This means focussing on current issues and not what has happened or not 
happened in the past. I trust AXA will continue to assist Mrs B in her contact with the 
surveyor, or deal with the issues directly if necessary, and any remaining work that is 
required will be completed as soon as is possible.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman