DRN-2536048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined their claim 
for subsidence. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have home insurance with RSA. In October 2018 they made a claim as they 
noticed a crack where their conservatory joined their property and were experiencing 
problems with closing the patio door.
RSA sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the problem. They produced a report that concluded 
the foundations of the conservatory werent built deep enough, considering the proximity of 
vegetation. 
In April 2019 RSA wrote to Mr and Mrs R to inform them that it was declining their claim. It 
said the conservatorys foundations were only 350mm deep which was below building 
guidance and regulations at the time of its construction. It said because of this, the exclusion 
in the policy for poor workmanship applied, so the claim wouldnt be covered.
Mr and Mrs R didnt think this was fair. They said the conservatory had been built by a 
reputable building company and so they assumed they had followed all relevant building 
regulations. So they said it wasnt fair that they were penalised for them not having done so. 
They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said that building 
regulations dont apply to conservatories so it wouldnt be fair to judge the structure against 
these. She said the structure had remained in place without any problems for at least 15 
years, so she didnt think it was fair for RSA to say it hadnt been built with effective 
foundations.
Mr and Mrs R accepted our investigators findings. However RSA didnt. It said the main 
buildings foundations were around 1,300mm deep, which also should have indicated 
350mm wasnt deep enough. It said although building regulations dont apply to 
conservatories it is good practise to ensure the foundations are sufficient and they provide a 
good guide. It says as the foundations were significantly less than this, it shows faulty 
workmanship and would be excluded from cover. RSA asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured to prove that there is an insured peril 
a problem thats covered by the policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the claim or
to prove an exclusion in the policy applies.
In this case, RSA has accepted that there is an insured peril  subsidence caused by 
vegetation. However it has said that the subsidence has occurred because the foundations 
of the conservatory werent built deep enough into the ground. And it says this means the 
exclusion for faulty workmanship applies. 
 
The policy states, under the section for subsidence cover:
Your insurer will not pay for loss or damage:
Arising from poor design, defective materials, or faulty workmanship.
So I can see that subsidence claims are excluded where the damage has been caused by
faulty workmanship. I need to decide whether RSA has applied this exclusion fairly in this 
case.
In its assessment of Mr and Mrs Rs claim, RSA has pointed to new buildings guidance and 
buildings regulations. As our investigator said, these regulations and the guidance dont 
apply to conservatories. So I agree it wouldnt be fair to say that just because the structure 
didnt meet these requirements, that the conservatory was poorly built. 
However, that doesnt mean we wouldnt consider these at all. We would expect builders to 
ensure that any structure they built would be suitable, and the foundations would support the 
structure for a reasonable period of time. To ensure that, wed expect them to consider a 
number of factors, including the ground conditions and good building practise. And building 
regulations are a good indicator of this as they set out the requirements for other single 
storey structures.
Building regulations have changed over time, so the date the conservatory was built is 
relevant when considering these. There is some uncertainty around when it was built, and 
Mr and Mrs R no longer have the paperwork from the time. However they say it was around 
1996. RSA say they were told previously it was around 2003 so it thinks it was more likely to 
have been then. Either way, for both of these dates the building regulations pointed to the 
same codes of practise, which generally considered a minimum depth of 900mm in clay soil 
to be suitable. As the conservatory has foundations of 350mm, I can see this is significantly 
under the minimum requirement contained in the regulations at the time. 
However, this isnt the only relevant consideration here. There is uncertainty around the build 
date, Mr and Mrs R have maintained that it was built around 1996. However RSA says it was 
told this was 2003. So based on this, the latest it was built is 2003, but the earliest is 1996. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt experience any problems with the structure until they made the claim in 
2018. This is a minimum of 15 years from the date it was built, potentially over 20 years. So 
while I can see the foundations were a lot shallower than building regulations required for 
properties at the time, I dont think its fair to conclude that there was faulty workmanship. 
The conservatory has stood without any problems for potentially 23 years, so the 
foundations were suitable enough to hold the structure for that time  and werent required to 
comply with building regulations.  
RSA has also said the builders should have taken more consideration of the vegetation in 
the area of the conservatory when calculating the foundations depth. However, other than 
pointing to new house building guidance  which isnt relevant to conservatories  it hasnt 
explained exactly how they would do this. I can see there is an apple tree 2.5m away from 
the conservatory which appears to have caused the subsidence. So I agree this should have 
been one of the factors the builders considered. However with the uncertainty around the 
date the conservatory was built, and further uncertainty about when the tree was planted, it 
is difficult to know exactly what information the builders would have based their calculations 
for the foundations on at the time. But again, as the foundations held the structure for at least 15 years, I dont think there is enough to say the foundations were defective. So I dont 
agree RSA has proved there was faulty workmanship.
So while I accept the foundations are quite a bit shallower than building regulations required, 
as conservatries arent required to meet these regulations and the structure has stood for a 
significant period without problem, I dont agree theres enough to say that the subsidence 
has occurred due to faulty workmanship. If the foundations had been unsuitable, I would 
have expected Mr and Mrs R to have experienced problems much sooner than they did.
For these reasons I dont think RSA has done enough to show the exclusion applies here. I 
will therefore require it to consider Mr and Mrs Rs claim in line with the other policy terms 
and conditions, without applying the exclusion for faulty workmanship.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I require Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc to consider their claim for subsidence in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman