DRN-2350971
The complaint
Mrs C complained about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when trying to 
make a payment.
Mrs C would like more compensation than HSBC offered her.
What happened
Mrs C and her husband travelled over 150 miles from home to view a car which Mrs C was 
interested in buying. She saw the car, at a private sellers house, and decided to buy it. 
Using her mobile app, Mrs C transferred £1 to the seller, to check she had the correct 
details, before trying to make the larger transfer of the remaining balance. The £1 transfer 
went through successfully. 
Mrs C then tried to make the remaining payment for £13,499, but couldnt. She tried splitting 
it into smaller payments, but it still wouldnt work. As it was after 8 pm, HSBCs phone lines 
had closed. Mrs C and her husband had to decide whether to drive all the way home and 
return the next day, or stay locally in a hotel. They decided to stay in a local hotel. This was 
a difficult decision for them because of worries about the Covid situation.
The next morning, Mrs C rang HSBC at around 8.45am. The adviser said that sometimes a 
large payment would be stopped for fraud checks. She told Mrs C that there was a maximum 
of £10,000 which could be authorised by mobile or over the phone. But Mrs C would be 
allowed to transfer more by online banking, though there would still be security checks and 
no payment could be guaranteed to go through. Mrs C explained that shed had to stay 
overnight in a hotel, as well as the inconvenience. The adviser offered £50, but Mrs C said 
the hotel and food had cost £100. The adviser agreed to pay £100 compensation, which Mrs 
C accepted, saying she hoped the payment would go through.
Mrs C transferred the money by online banking just before 10.30am, but the car seller didnt 
receive it. Mrs C rang HSBC again at 11am, and spoke to another adviser. The adviser said 
the payment could take up to two hours, but had been marked as completed from their end. 
She also explained that sometimes there could be checks at the receiving bank end as well.
Mrs C rang HSBC again at 12.45 because the online payment shed made at 10.30am still 
hadnt gone through, even though it was more than the advertised two hours after shed 
authorised it. She complained, saying that shed been getting mixed messages. She pointed 
out that the second adviser hadnt told her there was a security problem or put her through to 
the fraud team, but had just said it could take two hours. Mrs C explained it was 
embarrassing that the payment had repeatedly not gone through, and she hadnt known she 
couldnt use the app for a payment of that size, because it wasnt something shed normally 
do. She said that after speaking to the first adviser, shed thought everything would go 
through, but hours later it still hadnt. 
While she was on the phone to HSBC, she received a text message from HSBCs fraud 
team asking her to contact them. Mrs C then rang the fraud team back, went through 
security, and the funds were released around 1.15 pm. 
The money transferred to the car sellers account around 45 minutes later.
In its response to Mrs Cs complaint, HSBC said the delay had been caused by security 
checks. Mrs C replied, setting out in full what had happened, with all the phone calls shed 
had to make, the fact that she hadnt been contacted within two hours by the fraud team, and 
the stress which had been caused by all the waiting around, which had wasted her precious 
only day off. She explained that the Covid situation had made it more stressful when 
deciding whether to stay overnight in the area where she was buying the car, and she said 
she felt let down by HSBC.
HSBC agreed with Mrs C, and said that its phone banking team should have noticed that it 
had been stopped by the fraud team for further checks. It said it had given feedback to the 
relevant team members. HSBC explained that it had a lot of transactions to monitor, but 
agreed that the time Mrs C had had to wait was a long time, and offered her an additional 
£100 compensation, making £200 in all.
Mrs C was still unhappy and complained to this service. She explained that the whole 
experience had been very traumatic under the Covid situation. It had been a big decision to 
buy the car at a distance in the first place, because of Covid, because of the travelling, going 
to someone elses address, and then having to decide whether or not to stay in a hotel. 
HSBC had given inconsistent explanations, and shed felt cross, anxious and embarrassed. 
She felt that HSBC had handled the situation very badly and the compensation wasnt fair or 
good enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He thought that £200 compensation, and 
feedback to the appropriate HSBC team members, was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs C didnt agree. She said the inconvenience endured was terrible, and was all due to 
HSBC. Shed been given very varied advice on the day, and the last phone call had been 
appalling as the adviser hadnt read the notes and was wrong on every aspect of the call. 
She said that she would like £400 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mrs C had a really stressful, difficult and embarrassing experience, and I 
sympathise that it was so unpleasant for her.
Looking at what happened, HSBCs second adviser didnt pick up that the online banking 
payment had been flagged for fraud checks. As Mrs C accepted, fraud checks are 
necessary. But if the second adviser had noticed that the payment had been flagged for 
fraud checks, Mrs C could have spoken to the fraud team and been verified soon after that 
second call around 11am. Instead, it was around 1 pm before the fraud team sent Mrs C a 
text, meaning that the money wasnt released until around 1.15pm. So I consider that the 
failure to notice that the 10.30am payment had been flagged for fraud checks led to a delay 
of just over two hours.
I also agree with Mrs C that it was more than the advertised two hours before the fraud team 
contacted her about the 10.30am payment. And the third adviser kept her on long holds, and 
didnt always get the detail of her complaint right. So, although the first adviser had been 
helpful and friendly, and had pointed out that there would still be security checks, the second 
and third advisers didnt provide a good service. There are some aspects of this stressful experience, however, for which HSBC wasnt 
responsible. I do understand that its difficult to separate these out, during what was clearly a 
horrible time for Mrs C. But compensation is based just on what the bank did wrong. And I 
cant say it was HSBCs fault that it was after the 8pm closing time when Mrs C needed to 
speak to someone on the evening she wanted to make the payment. Thats what led to the 
difficult and costly decision about whether to stay in a hotel. Nor would it be reasonable to 
order HSBC to pay extra compensation for the fact that the Covid situation made buying the 
car a long way from home much more  stressful, with the worry about the travelling, visiting 
someone elses address, and staying in a hotel in the pandemic. Thats not to say I 
underestimate this stress, which I quite understand would have been really unpleasant. But I 
cant attribute it to HSBC failings.
So the HSBC failings for which I consider it should pay compensation to Mrs C were the call 
with the second adviser which led to a two hour delay in the payment being resolved, and 
the customer service from the third adviser. I find that £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for that, and is in line with what wed normally award in similar complaints.
My final decision
My final decision is that I find that HSBC UK Bank Plcs £200 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint for additional compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman