DRN-2906454
The complaint
Ms W complains that Morses Club PLC was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Morses Club provided Ms W with five loans between November 2015 and September 2016.
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £200 Nov-15 Mar-16
2 £200 Feb-16 Aug-16
3 £300 Mar-16 Sep-16
4 £300 Aug-16 debt sold
5 £300 Sep-16 debt sold
Ms W says that Morses Club didnt carry out adequate checks before lending and had it 
done so the loans wouldnt have been provided. She says the loans have resulted in her 
being depressed and unable to sleep.
Morses Club explained its approach to lending. It said that affordability assessments were 
undertaken before each loan with its agent visiting Ms Ws home and going through her 
income and expenses.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough to say that the loans shouldnt have been 
provided. She considered the loan amounts, what was apparent about Ms Ws 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender and didnt think it wouldve been 
proportionate to require Morses Club to ask Ms W for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. For the later loans, our adjudicator did think Morses 
Club shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Ms Ws financial situation. But 
said she havent seen anything in the information provided which suggested had this 
happened Morses Club would have realised the loans were unsustainable.
Ms W didnt accept our adjudicators view. She said the loans caused her severe hardship 
resulting in her becoming depressed and needing medication. She said Morses Club knew 
that she couldnt afford the loans and contacted her about taking out a new loan as soon as 
she repaid a previous loan.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
The checks carried out before the first loan was provided were proportionate and as 
these suggested the loan was affordable I didnt find I could say this loan shouldnt 
have been provided.
The second loan was taken out while the first was still outstanding. I thought the 
checks carried out before this loan was provided were proportionate and having 
considered the combined repayment amounts on loans 1 and 2 I found this loan 
appeared affordable. 
Ms W took out a third loan less than a month after the second loan had been taken 
out and on the same day that the first loan was repaid. This loan was for a higher 
amount, £300 with a finance charge of £195. While I thought it too early in the 
relationship to say that a pattern of borrowing had emerged which showed further 
lending would be unsustainable I thought the timing of these first three loans meant 
that further checks should have been carried out at this stage.
The combined repayments Ms W was required to make for loans 2 and 3 were £25 a 
week. I considered the information in Ms Ws application and the credit search that 
was carried out. While there was some adverse information recorded on Ms Ws 
credit report I didnt think this, or the other information gathered, was enough to say 
that this loan shouldnt have been provided.
As with loan 3, I thought further checks should have been carried out before loan 4 
was provided. However, I didnt find I had enough evidence to say that had further 
checks taken place Morse Club would have realised the loan wasnt sustainably 
affordable.
Ms W then took out a fifth loan in September 2016 on the same day she repaid loan 
3 and while loan 4 was still outstanding. Her credit report showed a county court 
judgement was recorded against her in July 2016. I think that based on this and the 
other information Morses Club had about Ms Ws borrowing, Morses Club should 
have realised that Ms W was struggling to repay her debts and that lending to her at 
this time wasnt sustainable. Therefore, I upheld Ms Ws complaint in regard to loan 
5.
Ms W responded to my provisional decision saying that Morses Club completed the forms on 
her behalf and included income that shouldnt have been included.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out 
proportionate checks to make sure that Ms W could repay the loans in a sustainable 
manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent the repayment amounts and the consumer's income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses Club was required to establish 
whether Ms W could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
I have considered Ms Ws comments in response to my provisional decision. While she has 
said that the forms were completed for her, Ms W signed the forms and I have nothing to 
suggest she wasnt aware of the information they contained. I can see a reference which 
could relate to a disability living allowance, however even taking this into account, I do not 
find I have enough to say that the first four loans shouldnt have been provided.
I think that by the time of loan 5, further checks would have shown Ms W was struggling to 
manage her money and I think it unlikely Ms W would be able to sustainably repay this loan. 
Therefore, as I set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 5.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses Club should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not provided loan 5 to Ms W.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses Clubs liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
In the event that loan 5 has been sold to a third party, Morses Club should take back the 
loan and take the actions set out below. If Morses Club is not able or willing to do this it 
should ensure the new owner of the debt takes the actions set out below.
If there is still a balance outstanding on loan 5, all interest and charges on this loan 
should be waived and all payments made should be treated as though they were 
payments of capital such that Ms W only repays the capital amount borrowed. If this 
results in overpayments then these should be refunded to Ms W along with 8% 
simple interest calculated from the date of the over payment to the date of 
settlement*.
Any adverse information regarding loan 5 should be removed from Ms Ws credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. Morses 
Club must give Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint regarding loan 5. Morses Club PLC should 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman