DRN-3699614
The complaint
Mr N complains about the level of service and the fees charged by I Go 4 Ltd in regard to his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N took out a policy through I Go 4 Ltd. It validated his details and found that a fault claim 
had been disclosed as non-fault. It reduced Mr Ns No Claims Discount (NCD) and it applied 
an additional premium and a charge for the change. Mr N was unhappy as hed provided 
proof of five years NCD. I Go 4 Ltd apologised, waived the charge and amended the 
premium. Mr N cancelled the policy. I Go 4 Ltd then said Mr N owed an amount for his time 
on cover and a cancellation fee, totalling £124.74. Mr N remained unhappy.
our investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought I Go 4 Ltd 
had reasonably relied on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) for information about 
Mr Ns claims history. And she thought it was for Mr N to contact his insurer to amend any 
incorrect details. But she thought I Go 4 Ltd shouldnt have charged Mr N an administration 
fee for changes made online or for changes it had to make. She thought it should reduce the 
amount he owed to £89.74.
I Go 4 Ltd replied that the administration fee was applied when the customer didnt make the 
change themselves online and this was done by the back office team. Mr N replied that he 
didnt think he should be charged a cancellation fee when the reason hed cancelled was 
that he was unhappy with I Go 4 Ltds customer service.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr N 
and to I Go 4 Ltd on 17 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
I could see that neither party had objected to the Investigators explanation around the NCD 
issue. I agreed that it was reasonable for I Go 4 Ltd to rely on CUE for a record of Mr Ns 
previous claims. This may not be accurately reflected in his proof of NCD as it may be 
protected. I thought I Go 4 Ltd reasonably corrected its error and explained that Mr N should 
contact his insurer to correct CUE. So I didnt consider that aspect of Mr Ns complaint 
further.
But neither party agreed with the Investigators view on the fees charged at cancellation. Our 
approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its terms and 
conditions and fairly and reasonably.
Like the Investigator, I looked at the list of fees and charges that was provided to Mr N when 
he bought his policy:
What you will have to pay for our services
All other changes to your policy  completed online £0
Completed via telephone -£35
Your policy is a contract for 12 months. If your insurance is cancelled for any reason you will 
be charged £75 in addition to the charge made by your insurer for the cover you have 
received.
Please note all fees charged are non-refundable in the event of cancellation.
When Mr N cancelled his policy, I Go 4 Ltd charged him for his time on cover and a 
cancellation charge. I could understand that Mr N felt unhappy with the level of service he 
received from I Go 4 Ltd. But I thought the cancellation charge was clearly set out in the 
policys terms and conditions. And, as Mr N cancelled outside the 14 day cooling-off period, I 
thought it was fairly applied. I also thought it was fair for I Go 4 Ltd to make a reasonable 
charge for its services and I thought £75 was in keeping with other cancellation charges Id 
seen. 
I Go 4 Ltd said the charge for time on cover included the insurers charge of £14.74 which I 
thought was fairly calculated on the basis of a daily charge. It said it also applied a £35 
charge for its administration of the policy when it changed the claims information. 
But in its response to Mr Ns complaint, I Go 4 Ltd had already waived the £35 fee for the 
changes of claims information. I Go 4 Ltd later said there were multiple changes on the 
policy and so the fee was charged twice. But the only other changes that I could see were to 
the NCD entitlement and subsequent premium. And I Go 4 Ltd agreed that these changes 
were wrongly applied due to its own errors. So I didnt think it would be fair to apply a charge 
for something that it had done wrong.
In any case, the policys terms and conditions stated that there was a £35 fee when changes 
are made by telephone. And I couldnt see that Mr N made any changes by telephone. But 
no fee is charged when the changes are made online. There was no mention that a fee 
would be charged for amendments made by I Go 4 Ltd. So I didnt think it would be fair or 
reasonable for I Go 4 Ltd to apply this charge in Mr Ns circumstances. 
In summary, in keeping with its terms and conditions, I thought I Go 4 Ltd should only charge 
Mr N for the insurers charge for time on cover and its cancellation fee, £89.74 in total.
Subject to any further representations by Mr N or I Go 4 Ltd, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require I Go 4 Ltd to waive its 
administration fee and charge Mr N £89.74 for the cancellation of his policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr N nor I Go 4 Ltd has provided any further representations for me to consider. So I 
can see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require I Go 4 Ltd to waive its administration fee and charge Mr N £89.74 for the 
cancellation of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require I Go 4 
Ltd to carry out the redress set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman