DRN-1661812
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Cofunds Limited will only transfer cash from his stocks and shares ISA 
to another provider's cash ISA electronically. This is limiting for him as he wants to transfer 
to a provider that will only accept cheque transfers.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr B's complaint in which I explained why I didn't think it 
should be upheld.
To briefly recap the background to the complaint, here's an extract from that provisional 
decision.
"In May 2019 Mr B instigated the process of transferring cash held in his Cofunds stocks 
and shares ISA to another provider's cash ISA. His first attempt failed because the 
new provider would only accept this type of transfer in cheque form. This was followed by 
several further attempts with other providers where the same problem was encountered. Mr 
B's representative complained to Cofunds but it didn't uphold the complaint. It confirmed that 
it didn't facilitate cheque payments and that monthly platform charges would continue to be 
applied until a successful transfer took place.
The complaint was referred to this service and our investigator concluded that it should 
be upheld. He highlighted related industry guidance and felt that Cofunds should try to reach 
a compromise with Mr B's intended new provider so the transfer could be completed. He 
also suggested that Cofunds refund the platform charges incurred by Mr B since June 
2019, when the transfer might otherwise have been completed. He also thought Cofunds 
should pay £75 in lieu of lost interest that would've been earned from the new cash ISA, and 
trouble and inconvenience caused.
Mr B accepted this, but Cofunds didn't. It noted that the quoted industry guidance was 
from 2014, so circumstances had changed significantly since it was drafted. Cofunds also 
didn't think it should be held responsible for what was, in effect, a 'compromise' situation."
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me to 
review. And I reached a different conclusion to that reached by the investigator. 
I said, in part:
"While I can understand Mr B's frustration with the situation, I don't think I can 
reasonably hold Cofunds responsible for it. I think its decision to use only electronic transfer 
of funds in these circumstances is a reasonable commercial decision that it's entitled to 
make.
I note the industry guidance highlighted by the investigator. But the processes described 
are recommendations only and are not prescriptive. And Cofunds make a reasonable point 
in stressing that the guidance was issued in 2014. The environment in which ISA providers are now working is significantly different to then, with a far greater proportion of activities 
being electronically-based rather than paper-based."
Mr B didn't accept my view. He provided detailed comments, which I'll summarise here: 
The 2014 guidelines promote the use of cheque transfers, or alternative 
arrangements to be made. 
The company acting against the primary guidance should be the one to resolve the 
situation. 
In what way is my provisional decision fair to Mr B?
If I recognise Mr B's frustration I should be able to pinpoint someone who should've 
acted differently.
Cofunds did not try to discuss the matter with Mr B or provide the name of a suitable 
provider to transfer to electronically.
He's surprised that my view is that other providers should not adhere to the 
guidelines.
Cofunds should've maintained flexibility in their systems in light of the guidelines.
In specific reference to the guideline document, Mr B said it should be good practice to 
follow them and noted they'd not been updated, so were still current. He pointed out that the 
guidelines said that where there was no bilateral agreement between the parties, cheques 
should be used. Further, the guidelines actually prohibited the use of electronic transfer 
unless there's agreement between the parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the further 
submissions, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I noted in my provisional decision, I think it's important to stress that while there are 
clearly other parties involved in this situation, I'm looking solely at the actions, or inactions, of 
Cofunds to determine whether it acted incorrectly, or unfairly. And I think the nub of the 
matter now is whether Cofunds' lack of adherence to the industry guidelines constitutes it 
acting incorrectly or unfairly.
I've given a great deal of further thought to the matter in light of Mr B's further comments. 
And I'd emphasise once again that I do have sympathy for his position. But, I nevertheless 
remain of the view that as an on-line platform developed since the issuing of the guidelines, 
it's reasonable for Cofunds to have taken the commercial decision to limit its transactions in 
these circumstances to electronic ones. 
As Mr B has acknowledged, the guidelines are clearly designated as recommendations only 
and not prescriptive. They were issued under the auspices of several trade bodies, not 
HMRC, in 2014, at the point at which transfers between stocks and shares ISAs and cash 
ISAs became legal, to give help and guidance to parties on the then new process.
At that time, the issuing of cheques for all sorts of transaction was far more common. In 
the intervening years, trading platforms and the sort of on-line transactions that Cofunds, 
and others, deal in have become the norm. In that environment, I'm satisfied that Cofunds' 
stance is a reasonable one. As such, I don't think I can fairly uphold a complaint against 
it for, in effect, failing to follow non-prescriptive guidance that, while not yet superseded, 
isn't really representative of the current financial environment. 
In respect of how Mr B can now take this matter forward, as I noted in my provisional 
decision, Cofunds has indicated that one of the providers he initially wanted to transfer to 
has, on occasion, accepted electronic transfers in these circumstances from Cofunds. So, again, I think the best course of action may be to follow this possibility up to try to put in 
place a solution. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman