DRN-3655868
The complaint
Mr G complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In July 2016, Mr G was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr G decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In March 2017, Mr G complained to P that hed not received any feed-in tariff payments. He 
then realised that he had to apply to receive these payments. He said this had not been 
explained to him at the time of sale, which is why he hadnt done so. 
In December 2020, Mr G emailed Shawbrook. He complained that:
P said the system would be self-funding through the feed-in tariff income and 
electricity savings. 
Birds were nesting under the panels and hed had to pay to resolve this issue. P had 
not warned Mr G of this possibility.
However, Mr G had used an incorrect email address and the complaint was not received. 
In August 2021, the CMC made a claim under Section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook on Mr Gs 
behalf. The CMC said that:
P misrepresented the benefits of the system since the benefits did not cover the 
monthly loan repayment. 
Mr G only receives about £10 per month in feed-in tariff payments. 
His electricity bills have increased since the system was installed. 
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr G or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. It 
felt the issue with birds nesting under the panels was simply a maintenance issue. And given 
that P had not offered a maintenance package to Mr G, Shawbrook was not responsible for 
this.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr G and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Given what Mr G was told by the salesperson the only reasonable conclusion that 
can be drawn is that Mr G was misled into thinking the system would be self-funding. 
He wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if hed been told it wouldnt pay for itself 
until after the loan was repaid. 
Mr G was entitled to rely on what he was told by the salesperson. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr G paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr G could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr G and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr G says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Gs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Gs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr G was told that the cost of the system was £8,600.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £8,600.00. The monthly payment was £92.32. The total 
amount of credit is £8,500.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£16,717.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Gs recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,600.00, it would 
cost Mr G more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr G has said that he was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the Mr Gs recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to 
decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr G could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr G could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £213.44, which results in an average monthly income of £17.78. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £92.32. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr G could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £217.33 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr G the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £558.26. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr G entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £90.82. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £90.82, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr G could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits he could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mr G wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr Gs version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr G that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr G was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 30 years. This shows that by year 19 the overall benefits that Mr G could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr G that the system would pay for itself by 
year 19, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the 
contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is generating 
electricity in line with the contract between P and Mr G. I have looked at Mr Gs FIT 
statements and it seems that his system is underperforming compared to the generation 
figure quoted on the sales paperwork and MCS certificate. This wasnt raised with 
Shawbrook as part of the initial section 75 claim, so if Mr G is concerned with the 
performance of his system he should contact Shawbrook further about this. 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mr G hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr G couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr G entered into the contract.
With regards birds nesting under the solar panels, I do not think Shawbrook bears any 
responsibility for this. To my knowledge, solar panels are not usually installed with 
protection against this eventuality. And on the rare occasions birds cause issues in this 
way the solar panel owner can reasonably expect to deal with it as part of maintaining the 
system. 
Shawbrook has provided information on Mr Gs complaint to P about the FIT application 
process. P sent Mr G new forms to complete after he complained, however P refused to 
offer any compensation because it said that Mr G had been told from the outset (in the 
contract and via email) that he had to make the application. I can see this is stated on the 
quote on the page that he signed. And Mr G was sent the FIT application form with his 
welcome pack via email on 18 April 2017. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr G to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman