DRN-4268238
The complaint
S, a charity, complains about the service it received from Lloyds Bank PLC when it opened a 
new bank account.
S has been represented in this complaint by Ms G one of Ss trustees.
What happened
S was formerly a social enterprise. In early 2022 it told Lloyds that it was planning to become 
a charity. Lloyds said this meant that it would need to open a new bank account. S started 
an application for the new account over the phone in mid-March 2022. The application 
process wasnt fully completed, as the call ended before Lloyds had finished confirming 
some necessary details. Lloyds subsequently called S three times that same morning to try 
to complete the call but was unable to get through to S. It left a voicemail with a number for 
S to call back.
In late June 2022 Ms G phoned Lloyds to ask for an update on the new account. Lloyds told 
S that its application for a new account had been discontinued, on the basis that S hadnt 
been in touch for 90 days.
S became a registered charity in July 2022. The same month, it started the account 
application process again. It went through the application with Lloyds on the phone. Lloyds 
said it would send S the application pack. But one of Ss trustees was overseas and unable 
to provide the evidence that Lloyds required. To avoid further delay, S decided to remove the 
trustee. Lloyds notes of the call say that Ms G said she would call it back when that had 
been done.
S sent an application form to Lloyds in August 2022, but part of the form was missing, and 
only one party to the account had signed it. The account was eventually open and ready for 
use at the end of September 2022, after Lloyds received the completed application form and 
all necessary signatures.
Ms G says S phoned Lloyds several times during the 90-day period after first starting the 
application, and was sometimes told the application was in progress, and sometimes that it 
couldnt be found. 
Ms G has explained that S couldnt apply for larger grants while it was a social enterprise. 
She says it delayed converting to charitable status, as it didnt have a bank account. But it 
eventually decided to go ahead with the switch to charitable status in July 2022, as it couldnt 
wait any longer. 
Ms G told us that applications to a particular fund needed to be submitted by the end of May 
2023, but that S wasnt able to apply, as it hadnt been a charity for over a year. She says 
that other funding bodies also required applicants to have been in existence for a year. And 
she says that if S had had its new bank account in time for it to change to charitable status in 
April 2022, as originally planned, it wouldnt have lost out.
Lloyds wrote to S in August 2022. It said that S had phoned it multiple times to chase the 
application, and had been given conflicting information. In the end the application had been 
withdrawn as Lloyds didnt have all the required information. It enclosed a cheque for £100 
to apologise for the poor service S had received.
In October 2022 Lloyds wrote again to S, apologising for the service it had received. It said 
that at several points during the application process its lack of communication had played a 
big part in delaying the opening of the account. And it acknowledged that it had given S 
conflicting information about what information and documentation was needed. This had 
caused confusion and had meant that S had needed to seek clarification from Lloyds. All this 
had meant that it had taken a lot longer to open the account than expected. Lloyds credited 
Ss account with a further £300 by way of apology. And it asked for details of any funding S 
had lost out on as a result of the delay in account opening, and any costs S had incurred in 
phoning it during the application process.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but thought that Lloyds had already done 
enough to put things right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Lloyds to do any more than its already done to resolve the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ss complaint is essentially that Lloyds didnt communicate with it adequately about what 
was needed in order to open Ss bank account. It says this caused it inconvenience and 
resulted in wasted time. It also says it missed out on funding opportunities that it would have 
been eligible for if Lloyds had dealt properly with the account opening.
It isnt clear why the phone call in March 2022 was cut off before it was finished. But 
whatever the reason, Im satisfied that Lloyds made it clear to S in a voicemail shortly after 
the interrupted call that it needed S to call it back. It provided a number to call. The next 
record Lloyds has of contact from S was in late June, when Ms G called for an update. Ms G 
says she called Lloyds numerous times in the intervening period, but she hasnt provided 
evidence to support this. The call list shes provided shows the call made in late June 2022. 
Theres also a record of that on Lloyds system. But theres nothing in between. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds carried out a thorough search for records of calls with S between 
March and June 2022 and it didnt find anything. Ms G has referred to a call shown in her 
call list in early June 2022 to Lloyds helpline. Lloyds has traced that call, but its records 
show that it concerned Ms Gs own bank account, not Ss account. So despite what Lloyds 
said in the letter it sent S in August 2022, enclosing the £100 cheque, Im not convinced that 
S did, in fact, contact Lloyds about the account application between the calls in mid-March 
and late June 2022.
I think it would have been clear to S that Lloyds needed S to contact it for the account 
application to progress. Lloyds could, perhaps, have been more proactive in chasing the 
application up, but I dont think I can fairly say that it was wrong not to do so. I think it was 
reasonable of Lloyds to assume that if S wanted to go ahead with the application, it would 
get in touch as requested. As it was, S did eventually contact Lloyds for an update, but based on the evidence 
provided, Im satisfied that this was not for more than three months after the initial call. By 
that time, the application had been discontinued and had to be started again. I dont think 
Lloyds can fairly be held responsible for the resulting delay.
S has referred to a particular funding opportunity that it says it missed out on because it 
hadnt been a registered charity for a full year by the end of May 2023. But it follows from 
what Ive said that I dont find that Lloyds can be blamed for the delay in setting up the 
charity. 
Ive noted that in the complaint to Lloyds Ms G referred to protected characteristics  a 
reference to characteristics protected under the Equality Act 2010  and mentioned 
discrimination and bias. But Ive seen nothing to make me think that Lloyds dealings with S 
and its accounts involved any bias or discrimination, or any failure to make reasonable 
adjustments to reflect any protected characteristics that Ss representatives may have had.
S was eventually registered as a charity just a few weeks after discovering that the account 
application had been discontinued. Its new account was opened around two months after the 
charity was registered. 
Some delay was caused by the fact that one of Ss trustees was unavailable over the 
summer and was ultimately removed so as not to delay the application further. I can see that 
there was some confusion and discussion between S and Lloyds about whose signatures 
were needed. Lloyds has accepted that it provided conflicting information about what it 
needed in order to open the account, and that it took longer to open as a result. 
I can appreciate that the lack of clarity around what was needed caused S some 
inconvenience. But I consider the compensation that Lloyds has already paid S to be 
reasonable to reflect this. I acknowledge that Ms G says nothing has been received, but 
Lloyds has provided a copy of Ss bank statement, which shows the credit of £300 to Ss 
account made on the same date as Lloyds issued its final response to Ss complaint.
Taking everything into account, I dont consider that I can fairly ask Lloyds to do more to 
resolve the complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that the compensation that Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid to S is fair. 
So I dont require it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman