DRN-3203096
The complaint
Mr B complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) failed to 
refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in time. He feels hes missed the 
opportunity to claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In July 2019, Mr B instructed FTR to pursue PPI claims on his behalf with his lenders. In 
September 2020, he said FTR told him one of his lenders Ill call L didnt uphold his claim, 
but if he completed the sent documentation, theyd refer his PPI claim to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for them to consider his complaint. Mr B completed and returned the 
documents a few days later. FTR submitted his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. But the Financial Ombudsman Service said that the complaint had been brought to 
them too late as it was over six months since L hadnt upheld Mr Bs PPI complaint. Mr B 
complained to FTR.
FTR said theyd emailed and sent text messages to notify Mr B that he could refer his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service within a six-month timeframe, but he hadnt 
responded. FTR said the letter they sent in September 2020 was sent after the six-month 
deadline for Mr Bs PPI claim to be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service and 
apologised for this.
Mr B wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTR had sent messages to Mr Bs mobile phone within the six-month 
timeframe so the opportunity to bring the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
had been given to Mr B. 
Mr B disagreed, he said he hadnt received the non-uphold letter from L neither had he 
received any text messages from FTR. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base 
my decision on what I think most likely happened.
Its not in dispute that Mr B instructed FTR in July 2019 to act on his behalf in pursuing PPI 
claims against his lenders. And Mr B had successful claims. In March 2020, I can see one of 
his lenders, L sent notification to FTR, along with a copy of the letter they said they sent to 
Mr B saying Mr Bs PPI claim for three accounts had been successful and the amount of 
compensation they offered. In the same notification I can see they told both Mr B and FTR 
they didnt uphold his complaint about mis-sold PPI for account *5147. 
The letter went on to say Mr B would receive his compensation by cheque within 28 days. 
And said if he was unhappy with their final response, he needed to get in touch with them  
within six months of the date of the letter. The notification also gave referral rights to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, with the same six-month deadline. 
I know Mr B said he didnt receive this letter, but I can see the letter was addressed correctly 
and I cant hold FTR responsible for non-delivery of a letter sent by a third party. Im also 
unaware of any issue with the receipt of the redress Mr B was offered in this letter for his 
mis-sold PPI claims for accounts, *1406, *8702 and *7377. So, I think Mr B would have been 
aware that his mis-sold PPI claims with L had been investigated and hed some successful 
claims with them. 
In July 2019, when Mr B signed FTRs letter of authority instructing them to act for him, he 
would have also agreed to their terms and conditions. FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may be required to complete additional forms and information for the purpose of 
proceeding with a FOS claim
Ive looked at FTRs records and can see the contact details supplied in the application 
shows an error with Mr Bs email address, so any emails sent wouldnt have been received 
by him. But the mobile telephone number is the same as that given to us. And the 
application shows Mr B gave FTR permission for him to be contacted through this channel.
FTRs records show five text messages were sent to this mobile phone *8170 in July 2020. I 
think the messages were clear in that Mr Bs PPI claim hadnt been upheld by his lender and  
what steps Mr B needed to take. The text message provided a link for Mr B to give his 
authority for FTR to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and made clear 
FTR couldnt progress his claim without his authority. Again, I understand Mr B says he 
didnt receive these text messages, but FTR has shown the mobile number the messages 
were sent to, and the date and time the messages were sent. So, I cant hold FTR 
responsible for Mr B not receiving or reading the messages sent to his mobile telephone 
number. 
I can understand Mr Bs frustration as he hasnt been able to check whether the decision 
made by L was correct in not upholding his PPI claim. But L had investigated and upheld 
three of his other accounts with them. And I cant know whether the Financial Ombudsman 
Service would have said otherwise for the decision theyd reached for account *5147.  
Its unfortunate that the letter sent by FTR to Mr B, 18 September 2020 was already outside 
of the timeframe for referring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. L sent 
their final response letter to Mr B, 17 March 2020, which meant hed till 16 September 2020 
to bring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. But as outlined above FTR had 
sent a link for the documentation needed to refer Mr Bs complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to Mr B from 1 July 2020, well within the six-month timeframe. So, I 
cant hold FTR responsible as Mr B had the opportunity to refer his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service within the six-month timeframe allowed.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman