DRN-3188953
The complaint
Mrs J complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against her legal
expenses policy. Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in full. In summary, Mrs J has home insurance with Aviva which includes legal
expenses cover. In October 2017, Mrs J notified Aviva of a legal expenses claim in
relation to the proposal by the owner of adjacent land to build houses in breach of a
restrictive covenant for the benefit of her property. Aviva declined the claim and said that
the policy excludes cover for planning law.
I understand that in March 2018, the owner of the land adjacent to Mrs Js property
obtained planning permission. In May 2018, Mrs J, via her solicitor, put Aviva on notice
of a potential claim against the policy in relation to opposing an application to the Upper
Tribunal (Lands Chamber) to modify certain restrictive covenants. Aviva declined Mrs Js
claim. It said that her claim against the policy didnt fall within the definition of legal
proceedings in the policy.
In January 2020, Mrs Js opponent applied to the Upper Tribunal (Lands Chamber) for
variation of restrictive covenants. Mrs J asked Aviva to accept her claim for cover. In
March 2020, Aviva asked for further information and said that it would ask its specialist
panel solicitors to consider the matter and, if the assessment was positive, it could
consider instructing Mrs Js solicitor. Ill refer to Avivas panel solicitors assessment in
more detail below.
In June 2020, Aviva told Mrs J that its solicitors view was that her claim doesnt have
reasonable prospects of success, so it declined her claim against the policy. Aviva told
Mrs J that she could provide her own solicitors opinion on the prospects of success and,
if that was supportive, it would arrange for counsels opinion.
In July 2020, Mrs J provided an opinion from a Queens counsel which said that there were 
good prospects of success in resisting the application to modify the restrictive covenants. 
Aviva said that it wouldnt provide cover, as the claim didnt fall within the policys definition 
of legal proceedings.
In response to Mrs Js complaint, Aviva said that it could have been clearer about its 
reasons for declining the claim. It said that it declined Mrs Js claim because of the 
prospects of success in opposing the application to the Upper Tribunal (Lands Chamber) 
and the fact that the matter didnt come within the definition of legal proceedings in the 
policy. Aviva offered Mrs J compensation of £50 in relation to its lack of clarity. That wasnt 
acceptable to Mrs J and she pursued her complaint.
In December 2020, Mrs J was successful in opposing the application to the Upper Tribunal 
(Lands Chamber) and she was awarded costs against the applicant.
Mrs J says that Aviva was wrong to decline her claim on the basis of its prospects of 
success and acted unfairly in concluding that the proceedings before the Upper Tribunal 
(Lands Chamber) werent legal proceedings, as defined by the policy. Mrs J is concerned 
that she wont recover all her costs and wants Aviva to pay any shortfall.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Aviva had 
acted unfairly. The investigator said that Mrs Js claim against the policy didnt fall within 
the policys definition of legal proceedings.
Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator. She said, in summary:
The policy terms should be interpreted widely, so that the broadest assistance is 
provided.
The policy covers an injunction and to all intents and purposes, that is the relief 
that she sought.
The policy doesnt specifically exclude the Upper Tribunal (Lands Chamber) so, 
in fairness, it should be included in the cover.
Damages shouldnt exclusively be considered to be a monetary award.
Her successful opposition to the application to the Lands Tribunal thwarted the 
threat to her enjoyment of her land.
Late in considering her claim against the policy, Aviva said that her prospects of 
success were less than 50%. Aviva didnt respond when she provided her own 
counsels opinion that she had greater than 50% prospects of success in 
opposing the application.
She referred to other cases in which this service has considered the question of 
fairness.
My provisional decision
On 1 November 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that 
I didnt think that Aviva was at fault in declining Mrs Js claim but that it hadnt been clear 
about its reasons for doing so, which caused Mrs J some inconvenience. I said that I 
intended to direct Aviva to pay Mrs J total compensation of £200. I said:
Im conscious that Ive condensed a complex chronology into a short narrative. That 
reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im satisfied that Ive 
captured the essence of what happened.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs J has very strong feelings about this matter. 
Shes provided detailed submissions to support her complaint, which I have read and 
considered. However, I trust that Mrs J will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on 
what I consider the central issue, that is, whether Aviva acted within the policy terms and 
fairly and reasonably in declining her claim against her policy.the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are 
as follows:
Cover
We will insure you for any costs and expenses incurred in respect of legal 
proceedings arising from a circumstance as described in the Insured events section 
provided that: []
prospects of success exist for the duration of the 
claim []
Costs and expenses are defined as: 
Costs and expenses
All reasonable and necessary legal costs [] charged by the 
appointed representative and agreed by us
Legal proceedings are defined as:
Legal proceedings
For the pursuit or defence of a claim for damages
Specific performance
Injunction 
dealt with by:
negotiation
a civil court
a tribunal
arbitration
any other body
which we have agreed to or authorised
Insured events include:
3. Property disputes
a) An Incident that results in a dispute relating to:
the interference of your use, enjoyment or right over your home
physical damage to your home.
We will not cover any claim:
in relation to extending, altering or renovating buildings or parts of them
relating to subsidence, heave, landslip, mining or quarrying
relating to planning law including town and country planning legislation
In respect of the defence of a claim relating to damage to your home, other than 
defending a counter-claim
[]
Prospects of success are defined as:
Prospects of success
In respect of all claims it is always more likely than not that you will:
a) recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to
b) make a successful defence
c) make a successful appeal or defence of an appeal.
d) recover damages which are higher than any costs and expenses which may be incurred.
Prospects of success will be assessed by us or an appointed representative on our behalf.has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a duty to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that Aviva was at fault in declining Mrs Js claims against her policy, but I dont 
think that it was always clear about its reasons for doing so, which caused Mrs J some 
inconvenience. Ill explain why Ive come to those views and what I propose to direct Aviva 
to do to put matters right.
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions 
of the policy document. I dont agree with Mrs J that the policy terms should be 
interpreted widely, in favour of the insured. Insurers are entitled to set out what they 
will and wont cover. The onus is on the consumer to show that their claim falls under 
one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is covered in principle 
but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy the onus shifts to the 
insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
I dont think that Aviva was at fault in declining Mrs Js claim against the policy in late 
2017. At that point, the dispute was about planning. Aviva was entitled to rely on the 
exclusion in the policy which relates to planning law and didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably in doing so.
In 2018, Aviva declined Mrs Js claim. It said that her claim didnt fall within the 
definition of legal proceedings in the policy. That wasnt because the potential claim 
was to be before a tribunal; matters before tribunals could be covered under the 
policy. But a claim before a tribunal needs to include a claim for damages, specific 
performance or an injunction. That wasnt the case here.
Mrs J says that the policy doesnt specifically exclude proceedings before the Upper 
Tribunal (Lands Chamber) so, in fairness, it should be included in the cover. I dont 
agree. Aviva can choose its definition of legal proceedings and, as long as its clear, 
fair and not misleading, I think its entitled to rely on it. Mrs J says that, in effect, she 
sought an injunction, so her claim should be covered. I dont think that Mrs Js 
opposition to the application to modify restrictive covenants is equivalent to an 
application for an injunction. An alternative route for Ms J was for her was to seek 
injunctive relief against the owner of the land once building had begun or thered been 
damage to her property. Injunctive relief is within the policys definition of legal 
proceedings. But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this case to direct Aviva to cover Mrs Js claim against her policy on 
the basis that it may have accepted a different claim. Aviva is entitled to deal with the 
claim thats been made. In addition, an application for injunctive relief is likely to be 
less complex and expensive than the proceedings that actually took place here. So, I 
dont think its reasonable to treat them as interchangeable.
The application to the Upper Tribunal (Lands Chamber) which Mrs J opposed was for 
an order modifying restrictive covenants. Avivas solicitors said that was similar to 
declaratory relief. Thats not something thats covered under the policy. So, Mrs Js 
claim against the policy wasnt for something which came within the policys definition 
of legal proceedings. I dont think that Aviva was wrong to decline Mrs Js claim in 
2018 on the basis that it wasnt within the policys definition of legal proceedings.I think that Avivas response to Mrs J in June 2020 was misleading and Ill explain 
why.
In Avivas response to Mrs J in June 2020, it said that its solicitors view was that her 
claim doesnt have reasonable prospects of success, so it declined her claim against 
the policy. Aviva was entitled to rely on its solicitors assessment of Mrs Js prospects 
of success at that stage. And its right that it set out the options available to Mrs J in 
the circumstances. But Aviva didnt mention that it also declined Mrs Js claim 
because the proceedings didnt fall within the policys definition of legal proceedings. I 
think that was misleading.
Mrs J subsequently provided an opinion from Queens Counsel which said that she 
had good prospects of success in objecting to the application to the Upper Tribunal 
(Lands Chamber). In these circumstances, wed usually expect an insurer to 
reconsider its conclusions about the prospects of success. But that wasnt necessary 
here, as it remained the case that Mrs Js claim against the policy didnt come within 
the relevant definition of legal proceedings.
I think that Avivas response to Mrs J in June 2020 was incomplete and confusing. 
Whilst Aviva provided Mrs J with a copy of its solicitors advice, it didnt draw her 
attention to the fact that it maintained that her claim didnt come within the policys 
definition of legal proceedings. Aviva misled Mrs J to the extent that she could 
reasonably have thought that if she provided a legal opinion saying that she had 
reasonable prospects of success, Aviva would accept her claim against the policy. 
That wasnt in fact the case.
I dont think that Avivas misleading communication caused Mrs J financial loss. 
Based on what Ive seen, the application to the Upper Tribunal (Lands Chamber) was 
progressing and Mrs J would have required legal assistance and a thorough analysis 
of her case and its prospects in any event. I dont think that Avivas misleading 
communication was the sole or main reason why Mrs J sought counsels opinion. So, 
I dont think that Aviva should reimburse Mrs J for counsels fee for his opinion of July 
2020.
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, Mrs Js policy provides cover for 
reasonable and necessary legal costs. Its not clear to me that it was reasonable 
and necessary for Mrs J to seek an opinion on prospects of success from a QC  a 
more junior counsel may have been able to advise at that stage.
In addition, Mrs J says that she was awarded costs against the applicant, so shell be 
able to recover her reasonable and proportionate costs. I dont think that it would be 
fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mrs J any shortfall she agrees not to pursue 
against the applicant. And bearing in mind that Mrs Js policy covers reasonable and 
necessary legal costs, I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable to direct 
Aviva to pay any of her costs that were not reasonable and proportionate.
Avivas errors in June 2020 put Mrs J to the trouble of further engaging with it in 
relation to cover when its position wasnt going to change. Aviva has already offered 
compensation of £50 in relation to its lack of clarity, but I dont think thats sufficient. 
Mrs J was given false hope and was no doubt disappointed to discover the true 
position. Considering everything, I think that fair compensation for that is £200, so 
£150 more than Aviva has already offered.Mrs J has referred to other cases in which this service has considered the question of 
fairness. We decide each case on its own facts and merits and come to decisions on 
the basis of whats fair and reasonable. Ive looked at the decisions to which Mrs J 
has referred. Theres nothing in those decisions that alters the outcome here. In 
reaching my decision Ive considered whats fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mrs Js  case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva agreed to pay the increased compensation. Mrs J also accepted my decision but 
thought that the compensation of £200 was nominal, given that Aviva had misled her. 
She said that the level of compensation ignores the inconvenience Aviva caused her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mrs J has said about the level of compensation. When we look at 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, we look at the effect any error had on an 
individual. In this case, Avivas error in failing to mention that it also declined Mrs Js claim 
because the proceedings didnt fall within the policys definition of legal proceedings misled 
her. That caused Mrs J inconvenience, as it put her to the trouble of further engaging with 
Aviva when its position wasnt going to change. It also caused disappointment when she 
discovered the true position. Its that disappointment and inconvenience that Im addressing 
here.
I think that total compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that 
view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the disappointment and 
inconvenience Avivas error caused Mrs J. I appreciate that Mrs J was involved in complex 
and costly proceedings, but Aviva wasnt responsible for that.
As both parties have accepted the substance of my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached. I find that Aviva made an error to the extent Ive 
referred to above, which caused Mrs J some disappointment and inconvenience. I think fair 
compensation for that is £200.
Putting things right
I now direct Aviva to pay Mrs J total compensation of £200. If it has already paid Mrs J £50, 
it may deduct that from the payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited should 
take the steps Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman