DRN-3434603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the sale and administration of their secured loan taken out 
with Swift 1st Limited, trading as Swift Advances (Swift), which they say was unaffordable.
What happened
In April 2007 Mr M and Mrs M took out a loan with Swift Advances Plc, through a broker, for 
around £21,195, which was secured over their property. It wasnt affordable for them and 
they soon found they were missing payments.
Swift 1st Limited took over Swift Advances Plcs liabilities under the loan and responsibility 
for administering it from 20 March 2016. 
In 2008 the court made a suspended possession order in favour of Swift and the court order 
was sent to Mr M and Mrs M in around September that year.
Mr M and Mrs M made a number of complaints to Swift from 2012 onwards including about 
fees and charges applied to their account and the way in which they were being treated.
In May 2020 Mr M and Mrs M complained that Swift had mis-sold their loan, as well as about 
fees and charges that had been added to their account. They wanted all the fees and 
charges theyd paid throughout the term of the loan to be refunded and the balance of the 
loan adjusted to reflect payments theyd already made.
Swift thought some of Mr M and Mr Ms complaint covered issues theyd previously 
responded to and others had been raised outside relevant time limits. They didnt uphold the 
rest of their complaint, so Mr M and Mrs M brought it to this service.
Our investigator came to the view we didnt have the power to consider Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint. They didnt agree and felt there were exceptional circumstances that explained 
why they hadnt brought their complaint in time.
Another ombudsman at this service decided that we could not consider Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint about the sale of the loan as Swift did not fall within our jurisdiction at the time it 
was taken out in April 2007. She also said we couldnt consider the majority of Mr and Mrs 
Ms other complaint points as they had been brought outside the time limits that apply. 
However, the ombudsman said that our service could consider their complaint about Swifts 
administration of the loan from 11 May 2014 onwards, including action resulting in visits from 
enforcement officers; fees and charges added to the account from that point, and steps 
taken to collect money owed under the loan. This, however, was to exclude any issues Swift 
had responded to in its letters sent on 26 June 2018, 20 February 2019, 10 May 2019, and 
5 June 2019.
In considering these matters, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think 
Swift had treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly with regards to the aspects of their loan 
administration we could consider. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I note that Mr and Mrs Ms representative has been in touch to make further 
representations about why this service should consider the entirety of their complaint. 
However, the previous ombudsman has already issued a decision on what we can and cant 
consider. I am unable to review or comment on this and can only now review what has been 
deemed to fall within our jurisdiction by the previous ombudsman (as outlined above). I 
understand Mr and Mrs M feel strongly about their complaint, but this is not a matter in which 
I have any discretion. 
Having reviewed the evidence and arguments of the parties (regarding those parts of the 
complaint I can consider) I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr and Mrs M have said they are unhappy that the court proceedings issued by Swift 
have resulted in visits from court enforcement officers. However, Im unable to 
consider any instances of enforcement prior to May 2014 given this falls outside of 
our jurisdiction. And Mr and Mrs M have not provided any evidence or details about 
any enforcement actions/visits from enforcement officers that occurred after May 
2014. So, given the lack of evidence and information surrounding this point, its not 
something I can fairly or reasonably hold Swift accountable for. I also cannot 
comment on Swifts decision to proceed with litigation as this was addressed in its 
previous final response of 26 June 2018 (which is now time barred). And in terms of 
visits from enforcement officers, they are appointed by the courts, so Swift would not 
be responsible for the actions of those officers in any event.  
With regards to the fees, charges and interest added to the account since May 2014, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Swift have applied unfair charges or fees 
outside of the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. And since June 2014, it 
ceased the application of monthly management charges and interest to the account. 
So, I dont think Swift has acted unfairly here either.
In terms of the way Swift has treated Mr and Mrs M, Im not persuaded it has acted 
unreasonably in its attempts to collect the outstanding arrears on Mr and Mrs Ms 
account, or that its conduct can be said to amount to bullying. Swift have engaged 
with them and has sought to provide assistance and understanding of their financial 
hardship by freezing the interest on the loan as well as suspending the application of 
fees and charges to the account as Ive outlined above. Mr and Mrs M havent always 
kept up with their arrangement to pay £520 a month either (with this agreement being 
the reason the possession order was originally stayed). But despite this, Swift have 
not taken any further enforcement action since 2018. So, I dont consider it has acted 
unfairly or with disregard to Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, and I empathise with the 
difficult financial situation theyre in and the impact this has had on them. However, having 
considered those aspects of Swifts loan administration that can be considered as part of this 
complaint, I will not be asking the firm to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman