DRN-2770572
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that QIC Europe Limited (QIC)  the underwriters of his home insurance 
policy - declined his water damage claim. 
What happened
On 6 January 2021, QIC say Mr F contacted it because a leak from his shower had 
damaged the kitchen ceiling underneath it. A few days later, Mr F sourced a quote from a 
plumber which mentioned stripping out the upper floor shower cubicle for access to leak and 
water damaged floor, also make good a damaged wetwall.
Around 18 January 2021, Mr F registered his claim. QIC told Mr F hed need to fix the leak 
and it would need a report into the cause of the damage. 
QIC attended Mr Fs property, took photos of the kitchen ceiling and the shower cubicle but 
declined his claim. Mr F complained.
QIC issued its final response letter to Mr Fs complaint and didnt change its decision to 
decline Mr Fs claim. It said that because there was no water leaking when it attended Mr Fs 
property, the damage hadnt been caused by water from the water supply or the showers 
waste. It said the sealant around the shower tray was in poor condition and was missing in 
places and Mr Fs policy didnt cover loss or damage caused by sealant or grout failing to 
work properly. QIC said there was no evidence to validate that the cause of the damage was 
covered by Mr Fs policy. 
Mr F brought his complaint to us. He was unhappy his claim had been declined, especially 
when he said QICs surveyor didnt go into any depth. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said there was no evidence 
demonstrating that the escape of water met the conditions of cover set out in Mr Fs policy. 
He felt QICs report on the cause of the damage was more persuasive than the evidence 
provided by Mr F. And that because Mr Fs policy didnt cover damage caused by sealant or 
grout failing to work properly, QIC hadnt been unfair in declining Mr Fs claim. 
In response to our investigators view, Mr F provided a report from his plumber dated 26 
March 2021, which said the water was suspected to be coming from the sealant round 
shower tray after further investigation the water seems to be coming from waste pipe under 
shower tray. QIC reviewed the report and questioned its reliability as it was dated two and 
half months after Mr F reported the leak. QIC also said the plumbers quote, sourced by Mr F 
a few days after he first reported the damage, mentioned a damaged wet wall. QIC said that 
water coming from the showers waste would not have damaged the wall and that damage to 
a wall is more consistent with the showers sealant being in poor condition.
Our investigator reviewed the report and QICs response but didnt change his view. Mr F 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. He didnt agree that QICs report  which he said was 
based on assumptions - was more believable than his plumbers report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Ive considered the most likely cause of the water damage to Mr Fs kitchen ceiling.
 
Ive reviewed QICs photos of Mr Fs shower cubicle. The photos show there are gaps in the 
seal around Mr Fs shower tray and, in particular, against the wall next to what appears to be 
the showers screen and into the corner of the cubicle.  So I dont think its unreasonable for 
QIC to have concluded that the cause of the water damage was water escaping through the 
showers seal.
Mr Fs plumbers report said that after further investigation, it seemed the water was 
escaping from the showers waste. But the report doesnt give any more information than 
this. It doesnt say what further investigation was carried out and doesnt provide any other 
information or evidence to support the statement in the report that water was escaping from 
the showers waste.
So from the evidence Ive seen, I think on balance, its more likely the water damage was 
caused by water escaping though the showers poor seal, rather than from the showers 
waste.
Ive reviewed the terms of Mr Fs policy. On page 14 of Mr Fs policy booklet, under one of 
the We dont cover sub-headings, it says, loss or damage caused by sealant or grout 
failing to work properly or by an inappropriate sealant or grout being used. And because I 
think the most likely cause of the water damage is the showers poor seal, I dont think its 
unreasonable for QIC to have declined Mr Fs claim.
Mr F questions the surveyors findings because the surveyor didnt go into any depth. But 
despite this and from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think QICs survey conclusions were 
wrong. Mr Fs hasnt persuaded me that the escaped water was coming from the waste and 
not through the seal. And, as Ive said above, I dont think its unreasonable for QIC to have 
concluded that the damage was caused by water that had escaped through the showers 
seal. 
So for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. I dont think QIC has been 
unreasonable in declining Mr Fs claim, and I wont be asking QIC to do anything further 
here. My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against QIC Europe Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman