DRN-4333659
The complaint
Ms D complains Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly provided her with two 
unaffordable personal loans.
Ms D is represented on her complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all submissions as though they 
are her own.
What happened
Nationwide provided Ms D with the following loans:
Loan Date of loan Capital 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentsTotal repayable 
value
Loan 1 January 2017 £3,900 60 £90 (approx.) £5,200 (approx.)
Loan 2 June 2017 £9,656 84 £162 (approx.) £13,600 (approx.)
In August 2022 Ms D referred a complaint to Nationwide about irresponsible lending. She 
said had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks when approving these loans, it 
would have identified she couldnt sustainably afford the repayments; and that it therefore 
irresponsibly provided them.
Nationwide said its checks were reasonable and proportionate and that it made fair lending 
decisions when providing both loans. It therefore didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint, so she 
brought it to our service for review. 
Our investigator reviewed the details and upheld Ms Ds complaint in part. He said he 
considered Nationwides checks hadnt gone far enough at either lending event, and as such 
werent proportionate at the time of either lending decision. He considered what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown Nationwide at each event and concluded it 
made a fair lending decision when approving loan one. But he said that by loan two it should 
have been clear to Nationwide that this further borrowing wasnt sustainably affordable for 
Ms D, and therefore it didnt make a fair lending decision when providing loan two. 
Ms D responded accepting the unaffordable lending findings but questioning Nationwides 
activity outside of the lending decisions. She said she should receive compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Nationwides handling of her complaint, and by 
continuing to contact her to collect the outstanding balance. She also asked that any 
adverse information be removed from her credit file. 
Nationwide responded and agreed in principle; but after our investigator looked the clarify 
the redress set out within his assessment, he wasnt able to be satisfied that Nationwides 
acceptance was in line with his recommendations. 
So as an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
This decision focuses on the personal loans provided by Nationwide. Ms Bs complaint about 
unaffordable lending on a credit card with Nationwide is being dealt with under a separate 
complaint refence; although in both complaints Ive taken into account the overall picture 
Nationwide had available to it at each individual lending event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website; and both Ms D and Nationwide are aware of this.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Ms D. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time of each of 
Nationwides lending decisions required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
These checks needed to assess Ms Ds ability to afford the credit limit being approved and 
repay it sustainably, without causing her financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Nationwide to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make fair lending decisions. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Both parties appear to agree with our investigators assessment and outcome; that the loan 
provided in June 2017 was unaffordable for Ms D and as such was irresponsibly lent. Ms D 
has said she understands why our investigator has recommended the redress he has, based 
on the outcome he reached in his assessment; and Nationwide has agreed in principle to the 
redress proposed by our investigator.  
As such, theres no longer an ongoing dispute about the unaffordable lending of these loans. 
But what remains in dispute is how Nationwide should put Ms B back in the position she 
would have been in had loan two not been approved. And its handling of her complaint and 
continued contact to recover the outstanding balance.
So, my findings here focus on what steps I consider Nationwide need to take to fairly resolve 
this complaint.
Nationwide has said it agrees with our investigators assessment; which recommended all 
interest, fees and charges for loan two be refunded, and that all payments Ms D has made to 
date be applied to the capital amount originally lent. 
Having reviewed the details, I consider this is a fair outcome. I say this because our general 
approach to unaffordable and irresponsible lending is well documented on our website. And 
where we find a business shouldnt have lent, our usual approach in order to look to put the 
consumer back in the financial position they would have been in (as far as reasonably 
possible) is to direct a business to remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
But, as the consumer has had the benefit of the capital amount lent, wed generally say this 
should be repaid. Our investigators recommendation is in line with this approach, which Nationwide has 
accepted. And having reviewed the evidence on file I see no reason to depart from our well 
documented approach in the individual circumstances of this complaint. 
Im aware and Ive taken great consideration over Ms Ds personal situation and all of the 
information that shes told us. Ive also considered the information Ms D has told us about 
Nationwides continued contact when looking to recover the outstanding balance; and how it 
handled her complaint. But I cant find Nationwide has acted unreasonably in either event. 
I understand continued contact in relation to recovery of the outstanding balance, and at 
times from third parties, will have been distressing to Ms D, especially given the personal 
circumstances shes made us aware of. But Nationwide or any third party it has instructed is 
reasonably entitled to look to recover the debt; and I cant reasonably say it has acted 
unfairly by contacting Ms D to look to recover the outstanding balance in this instance. 
And in relation to its handling of Ms Ds complaint, Ive not seen anything which suggests it 
didnt act within reasonable timeframes or was unreasonable in the approach its taken. 
So, taking all of the above into account and having carefully considered all of the evidence in 
this case, Im satisfied Nationwide shouldnt have provided Ms D with loan two and it 
therefore follows it needs to take further action in resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
As Ms Ds had the benefit of loan two, I think its fair she repays the capital amount 
borrowed. But Ms D has paid interest on a loan that shouldnt have been provided. So, I 
think shes lost out and Nationwide Building Society should put things right by taking the 
following action:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan two from the outset. Any 
payments made by Ms D should then be deducted from the new starting balance. 
a) If the payments Ms D has made total more than the amount originally lent, 
then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded, together 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date 
they were paid by Ms D to the date the complaint is settled.
b) If after the adjustments have been made there is still an outstanding balance 
to pay Nationwide Building Society should discuss arranging a 
suitable/affordable payment arrangement for the remaining balance, while 
having due consideration for Ms Ds vulnerabilities and ability to make 
repayments.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ds credit file as a result of loan 
two once any outstanding balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to deduct tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building Society should give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted, if she asks for one.
Given all of the information Ms D has told us about her past and current financial and health 
circumstances, I would remind Nationwide of its obligations to treat her fairly and 
sympathetically when contacting her and looking to arrange any repayment arrangement for 
any outstanding balance.My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Ms Ds complaint in part about Nationwide Building 
Society and direct it to resolve the complaint as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman