DRN-2091684
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P complain about National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) and the terms of 
their business loan they took out in the late 1980s.
What happened
In the late 1980s, Mrs and Mr P wanted to take out a Business Development loan with 
Natwest. Before approving this loan, Natwest asked that Mrs and Mr P take out additional 
life cover which would pay out the amount of the loan if either of them passed away. Mrs and 
Mr P arranged this life cover through a third-party insurer and the loan was granted.
In 2019, Mrs and Mr P became aware of their ability to complain about financial products 
added to past loans. And because of this, raised a complaint with Natwest about their 
requirement for them to take out additional life cover alongside their loan. They explained 
they had other assets that wouldve allowed them to pay off the loan, so the life cover wasnt 
necessary. They didnt think it was fair for Natwest to make this a requirement when, from 
their memory, theyd taken other loans where it wasnt necessary. So, they wanted to be 
compensated for the financial loss of having to purchase a policy that wasnt a benefit to 
them.
Natwest responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that due to the length of 
time it had been since the loan had been paid off, they no longer had any records of the sale 
available. But, even so, they explained it was common practice for additional life cover to be 
requested as a condition of any loan that was taken out during that time. And they explained 
they had no obligation to lend and were entitled to set the conditions of the loan. And they 
thought Mrs and Mr P had been made clearly aware of that condition. As Mrs P and Mr P 
arranged for the life cover and continued with the loan, Natwest didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong. Mrs and Mr P remained unhappy so referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained Natwest were 
unable to provide any documentation relating to the loan and its selling due to the length of 
time since the loan had been settled. But she agreed the life cover was a condition of the 
loan. And she didnt think Natwest had done anything wrong by setting this condition. She 
thought Mrs and Mr P were aware of the condition and had the option to seek lending 
elsewhere if they were unhappy with the condition. But they hadnt. So, she didnt think it 
was fair to say Natwest had acted unfairly and didnt think they needed to do anything 
further.
Mrs and Mr P didnt agree. They maintained their belief they were forced into purchasing a 
product they didnt need and didnt think this was fair. As Mrs and Mr P didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
First, I want to recognise Mrs and Mr Ps frustrations. I can understand why, with hindsight, 
they feel theyve lost out financially when paying for additional life cover they ultimately never 
had to use. And I can appreciate why they thought it wasnt needed as they had assets 
available that couldve been sold to cover the cost of the loan in any unfortunate 
circumstances. But for me to agree that Natwest have done something wrong, Id need to 
see theyd acted unfairly by adding the requirement of the life cover. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Due to the length of time thats passed since the settlement of the loan, Natwest have no 
documents relating to the loan or its sale. While I understand this is frustrating for Mrs and 
Mr P, I cant say Natwest have acted unfairly because of this. Businesss such as Natwest 
are expected to ensure they dont keep personal information of their customers for longer 
than necessary. And there is no requirement for documents to be retained on accounts that 
have been closed for longer than six years. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly by not 
having documentation available for a loan that ended in the late 1990s.
But even so, it hasnt been disputed by Mrs and Mr P or Natwest that additional life cover 
was a condition of the Business Development loan that they took. So, Im satisfied it was a 
condition of the loan. While I understand Mrs and Mr P believe they had assets that wouldve 
covered the cost of the loan, I dont think this means Natwest had an obligation to remove 
the condition. Natwest were entitled to add conditions to their loans that satisfied them of the 
potential risks when lending. And I dont think additional life cover being needed was 
uncommon at the time Mrs and Mr P took the loan. So, I dont think Natwest acted unfairly 
by requesting additional life cover was purchased, in line with the lending criteria of the loan 
at the time.
Ive seen this was discussed with Mrs and Mr P before the loan was approved and paid to 
them. And Ive seen the life cover they took was arranged themselves with an independent 
third-party insurer, rather than through Natwest themselves. So, I think Mrs and Mr P had 
time to consider the condition and decide whether they were happy to accept it before 
proceeding with the loan. So, I dont think they were pressured or mis-led into taking the loan 
and the additional life cover by Natwest. Because of this, I think Natwest acted fairly and I 
dont think they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint about National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman