DRN-3112866
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE has cancelled her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive summarised what 
happened.
Miss P had a pet insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes, covering her two 
dogs.
Great Lakes received notification from Miss Ps bank the direct debit mandate by 
which the monthly premiums were collected had been cancelled.
Great Lakes emailed Miss P and asked her to get in contact. It warned it would 
cancel the policy if she didnt respond. Miss P said she didnt receive the email.
Following the lack of response, Great Lakes automatically cancelled the policy and 
emailed Miss P to let her know. 
She received this email and was unhappy with Great Lakes actions so she 
complained but it declined to reinstate the policy.
Additionally, there was some discussion about allegations the insured dogs had been 
involved in an attack in a public place and the impact this had on future cover.
Miss P brought her complaint to this Service and our investigator didnt uphold it 
saying he thought Great Lakes had cancelled it in line with the policy conditions.
Miss P asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The cancellation of the policy
Miss P says Great Lakes hasnt complied with the terms of the policy and quotes part 
of the wording that explains how it will treat missed payments. 
But it didnt cancel the policy because of missed payments. It did so because 
Miss Ps bank informed Great Lakes her direct debit had been cancelled and this was 
before any payments were missed. So, I dont consider the wording shes quoted is 
relevant in this case.
When a direct debit is cancelled, Great Lakes says it views this as the policyholders 
intention to cease paying premiums and it warns the consumer about possible 
cancellation of the policy.
So when it received notification from Miss Ps bank the direct debit had been 
cancelled, it emailed to let her know and said if she didnt get in contact to make 
further arrangements, it would cancel the policy in 14 days time.
Im satisfied this is in line with the policy condition which says We can cancel the 
policy at any time by giving 14 days notice. Miss P has questioned the fairness of 
this term. However, Im satisfied Great Lakes use of the term was fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances of this case.
Miss P says she didnt receive Great Lakes email advising her of its intended actions 
but Im satisfied it was sent to the same address as other correspondence which she 
did receive. 
And I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Great Lakes responsible for non-
receipt of this email or if, as Miss P suggests, her email provider directed it into her 
junk folder and subsequently deleted it. I say this as it has communicated with her in 
a way that she had agreed to  and Ive seen nothing to suggest she notified Great 
Lakes to indicate any problems with receiving correspondence in this way.
When Great Lakes didnt hear from Miss P after the 14 days notice, the policy was 
automatically cancelled and it let Miss P know by email. 
Overall, Im satisfied Great Lakes has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms 
when communicating with Miss P and cancelling the policy.
Other issues
Great Lakes is aware that Miss Ps dogs allegedly attacked someone in a public 
space and this was the subject of criminal proceedings.
Miss P thinks Great Lakes cancelled her policy in response to her making a 
complaint, about its actions, to the Information Commissioners Office in connection 
with a separate complaint about this incident. 
But Great Lakes has already confirmed why the policy was cancelled, as Ive 
explained above, and Miss P hasnt provided any evidence to substantiate this 
accusation nor have I seen anything which persuades me it has merit.
Great Lakes says it wont be able to reinsure the dogs as theres a condition in all its 
policies  including Miss Ps  that states We are not able to cover a pet that has 
ever attacked or bitten anyone or another animal. We are not able to cover pets that 
have ever been in fights.
While Miss P says the criminal proceedings were unsuccessful, Great Lakes says 
this doesnt alter its position as the outcome of the proceedings isnt the key factor, 
its that the dogs were involved in the attack. And that means the terms of the policy 
are no longer met.
Because of this, Im satisfied Great Lakes has acted fairly and in line with the policy 
terms in declining to provide future cover for the dogs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Sotiris Petrou
Ombudsman