DRN-3138814
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the amount Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) have paid him to 
settle a claim he made after his boat partially sank. Hes unhappy that, although he paid 
insurance premiums to cover his boat, trailer and outboard motor, for a sum assured amount 
of £4,800, when the boat partially sank, Zurich didnt offer him the full amount. Mr M feels it 
isnt fair that he paid premiums for a higher sum assured than he received. He also feels that 
Zurich took too long to make a decision on his claim.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 October 2021 explaining why I was 
not intending to uphold the complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Mr M purchased a boat, outboard motor and trailer in 2019 for £2,100. Mr M insured 
the boat, outboard motor and trailer and some improvements, for £4,800, which he 
believed was their true value. Mr M then paid insurance premiums on the basis of 
that value.
The marina where the boat was moored informed Mr M near the end of April 2020 
that the boat had tilted and was partially submerged in the water. Mr M then made a 
claim under his insurance policy for the damage caused to the boat. 
Zurich sent their surveyor to inspect the boat and determine the extent of the 
damage. He concluded that rainwater wasnt the sole cause of the damage and said 
it was possible that the watertight integrity of some of the screws close to the normal 
waterline had been compromised. The surveyor valued the boat at £250 to £500 
based on the trailer and outboard also being included. On the basis that it wouldnt 
be possible to repair the damage caused by the partial submergence for £3,500 (the 
amount on the policy scheduled given for the value of the boat), the surveyor 
concluded the boat was a constructive total loss. The surveyor informed Zurich that 
the marina was prepared to purchase the boat, trailer and outboard engine for £850. 
While inspecting the boat, the surveyor located the bill of sale, dated 30 January 
2020. The bill of sale set out the purchase price for the boat, the engine and trailer as 
£2,100. In an email from Mr M to the surveyor on 26 May 2020 at 12:05 he explained 
that the motor, trailer, boat and other things had been sold at a discount because the 
previous owner was selling everything prior to moving far away. He said he insured 
the boat, engine and trailer on what the whole thing was worth not the bargain price 
paid.
Mr M also had a survey report completed around the time hed purchased the boat, 
which suggested a valuation of approximately £3,000, if all the recommendations and 
suggestions in the survey were completed.
In considering Mr Ms claim, Zurich informed him that the policy wording didnt cover 
any loss caused by wear, tear or gradual deterioration or the cost of making good 
any fault or damage arising from any fault or error in design or construction. 
However, they said that on this occasion, they were prepared to offer Mr M a cash 
settlement, on a without prejudice basis, of £1,250 in full and final settlement of the 
claim. In arriving at this figure, Zurich deducted the £850 offered by the marina for the 
boat, from the purchase price of £2,100. 
Zurich later agreed to increase their offer to £1,700 (on 10 July 2020) (and pay the 
storage fees from April 1st to the settlement date), which Mr M initially accepted. 
Zurich paid the agreed sum to Mr M, but after hed seen the boat, Mr M said he was 
unhappy with its state of repair and suspended his acceptance of the offer. 
Mr M complained to Zurich about the settlement offer and they issued their final 
response partially upholding the complaint on 24 July 2020. The complaint handler 
agreed with the settlement amount but offered £200 for the inconvenience caused to 
Mr M by the claim not being dealt with sooner than it was. 
Our investigator issued her view on 26 March 2021, upholding Mr Ms complaint. She 
said that Zurich agreed to insure the boat for £3,500 when they accepted the value 
provided to them by Mr M, and calculated the premium on that basis, so any claim 
under the policy should reflect that. She recommended that Zurich pay Mr M £3,500 
to settle his claim and an additional £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr M.
Zurich didnt accept our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision 
on the complaint. They explained that if Mr M had said hed paid £2,100, they 
wouldnt have offered a total sum insured of £4,800. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the cause of damage to the boat, leading to its sinking, hasnt been clearly 
established, Zurich have paid Mr M, £1,700 to settle his claim. Therefore, in this 
provisional decision, I will first consider whether Zurich have fairly settled Mr Ms 
claim. Ill then go on to consider whether Zurich should pay Mr M any additional 
compensation for the stress and worry he describes being caused by the way Zurich 
have handled his claim. 
Value of boat
When considering whether an insurer has fairly settled a claim, the starting point is to 
look at what the insurer has agreed to cover, as set out in the policy terms and 
conditions, and policy schedule. Page 20 of the policy terms and conditions set out 
the conditions which apply to the whole of the policy. At paragraph 7 the terms say: 
We will pay the reasonable cost of repair for loss or damage. In the event of 
a Total Loss or a constructive Total Loss, we will either pay the Agreed Value 
of the Craft or provide a replacement Craft of a similar age, size and type.
Page 10 of the policy terms and conditions defines the Agreed value as:the amount shown in the schedule, which represents the value of your Craft 
as
declared by your and agreed by us.
The Schedule sets out the following policy limits:
Section A (Items Covered) Sum Insured
1)The vessel, her gear and equipment £3,500
2a) First Motor    £500
4) Trailer    £800
7) Personal Effects        £0
Total Sum Insured £4,800
Ive listened to the sales calls and have reviewed the online form Mr M would have 
completed when he first requested an insurance quote. The online form asked the 
question, on page 3, Total purchase price of the craft and other insured items, which 
Mr M answered by entering the value of £4,300. Then during the sales call 
(approximately 6 minutes in), the adviser asked, So what would be the total 
purchase price of your craft and other insured items, would it still be £4,300 or 
more?. To which Mr M responded, Go to £4,800 max which he again confirmed, a 
short time later during the call. 
Having considered the questions asked at the point of sale, Im satisfied that it would 
have been clear to Mr M he was being asked for the purchase price of the boat. In 
response he said £4,300, increasing to £4,800 to include solar panels and lighting he 
intended to install. 
Zurich havent declined Mr Ms claim or voided his policy on the basis of a 
misrepresentation, so I dont need to make a finding on this. However, Zurich have 
suggested that, in the absence of other evidence, the purchase price of £2,100 for 
the boat, trailer and outboard motor is the best evidence of its value. In support of 
this Zurich provided the following excerpts from their underwriting guide:
the sum insured should represent the current market value of the vessel. If 
the vessel has recently been purchased, the price paid will be the best 
indicator of the vessels market value;
tenders, outboard motors and personal effects purchased separately could be 
added to that figure; and
if additional equipment or work had been carried out, they could consider 
addition up to a 10% increase, with appropriate justification.
Mr M said the difference between the amount on the bill of sale, and the total sum 
insured, was explained by the fact that hed bought the boat at a discount and was 
going to install 
£500 of solar panels and lighting onto the boat (which doesnt appear to have been 
done by the time of the incident). Hes also provided a copy of pre-purchase survey 
which suggested if certain works were completed, the boat would be worth £3,000. 
Where the information is inconsistent, as it is here, I make my decision on the basis 
of what I think is more likely than not, the case. Taking everything into account, Im of 
the view that the best available evidence of the value of the boat is the purchase price Mr M paid for it, so the boats likely value is £2,100 (including the trailer and 
outboard motor).
Mr M said hed made some of the improvements to the boat, set out in the pre-
purchase survey, however he wasnt able to provide receipts for the items or work. 
Rather, he provided photographs of items hed purchased. Zurich researched the 
likely cost of those items online and arrived at a total of £120. 
The Marina offered £850 for Mr Ms boat, trailer and outboard motor. So, I think it 
was reasonable for Zurich to reduce their settlement offer by that amount, on the 
basis that Mr M chose to keep the boat, trailer and outboard motor. Zurich then 
increased their offer from £1250 to £1700 to cover the cost of the improvements 
Mr M said that hed made to the boat. Given the likely total of those costs was £120, I 
think Zurichs offer was fair in the circumstances. 
In addition, Zurich didnt deduct the excess (in line with their terms and conditions as 
the boat was moored in a marina) and paid the marinas salvage invoice of £1550, 
the marinas costs for loading the boat and Mr Ms belongings onto the trailer so he 
could take it away, and storage costs from 1 April 2020 to 13 July 2020. Taking 
everything into account, I think Zurich have acted fairly and reasonably in settling 
Mr Ms claim and Im not currently minded to require Zurich to do anything more. 
Delays
Mr M submitted his claim to Zurich on 4 May 2020. Zurichs surveyor attended the 
marina on 11 May 2020 to assess the cause of the incident. After the first visit, the 
surveyor wasnt sure what had caused the boat to sink, so needed to arrange further 
testing which was delayed by a dispute between Mr M and the Marina. The surveyor 
re-visited the marina on 21 May 2020 and provided a formal report to Zurich by 
27 May 2020, saying further testing needed to be carried out to determine the cause 
of the incident. By 22 June 2020 Mr M provided his consent for the further 
investigations. The further tests were carried out on 7 July 2020 and the surveyor 
provided his updated report to Zurich the following day. Zurich made their offer to 
Mr M on the day after that and paid the settlement sum into his account shortly after 
hed provided his bank details on 13 July 2020. So, within a period of two months and 
one-week Zurich had investigated and settled the claim.
Zurich paid Mr M £200 compensation for the distress he was caused by the delays, 
which I think is fair in the circumstances. I wont be asking Zurich to pay Mr M any 
further compensation for the way theyve handled his claim. 
I concluded that the £200 compensation Zurich had paid Mr M for the distress he was 
caused by the delays, was fair in the circumstances, so I wouldnt be awarding any further 
compensation. 
Zurich didnt provide any further information or arguments for me to consider. However, 
Mr M did respond to the provisional decision. In summary he said he disagreed with the 
provisional decision and emphasised that he suffered from some medical conditions. He 
explained that hed completed the insurance forms to the best of his knowledge and abilities. 
And, he said that he was open about getting the age of the vessel wrong and had agreed to 
the increased premium. 
Ive taken Mr Ms comments into account in arriving at my final decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Ive taken note of what Mr M has said, he hasnt provided any new arguments or 
evidence for me to consider, that might have led me to come to a different conclusion to the 
one I set out in my provisional decision. 
I therefore remain of the view that Zurich has acted fairly and reasonably in settling Mr Ms 
claim, so I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman