DRN-1021262
complaint
Miss H says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss H took out with a store card in 1996. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint because I dont think FICL gave 
Miss H clear enough information about the limitations and exclusions in the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition which Miss H knew about at 
the start of the policy. And I havent seen clear evidence that Miss H was made sufficiently 
aware of this term during the sale.
I think this wouldve mattered to Miss H because shes told us that at the time of the sale she 
was suffering from a medical condition. Shes told us she was diagnosed with the condition 
around three years before the sale, that she takes medication for it and has regular doctor 
appointments to check the condition.
FICL has said that the condition Miss H has is usually manageable and wouldnt affect 
someones ability to work. But it hasnt sent us any information or arguments specific to 
Miss H. And I havent seen any clear evidence that her condition was minor or that she 
would still have wanted to take the policy if shed known any potential claims as a result of 
her condition wouldnt be covered.
So I dont think theres enough evidence to say that Miss H would still have wanted to take 
the policy if shed been told any claims resulting from her existing condition wouldnt be 
covered. And so, based on what Miss H has told us, I dont think she wouldve taken the 
policy if this exclusion had been made clear to her and that shes lost out as a result of what 
FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.A.    FICL should find out how much Miss H would have owed when she closed her card
        account if the policy hadnt been added.
        So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on
        those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale
        of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
        FICL should then refund the difference between what Miss H owed when she closed
        her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
        If Miss H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she
        got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.    FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss H would have
        owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund.
        The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.    If  when FICL works out what Miss H would have owed each month without PPI 
        Miss H paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple
        interest on the extra Miss H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the
        point when Miss H wouldve owed FICL something on her card. The interest rate
        should be 8% a year.
D.    FICL should tell Miss H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Financial Insurance Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman