DRN-2646804
The complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC has not fairly compensated him for the mis-sale of a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In April 1997 Mr S took out a loan for £8,000 with Lloyds. The loan was to be repaid over 60 
months. At the same time Mr S was sold a PPI policy. The PPI policy was paid for with a 
single premium. The single premium of £1,534.40 was added to the loan. So Mr S borrowed 
£9,534.40 in total.
In 2020 Mr S complained to Lloyds about the sale of the policy.
In August 2020 Lloyds wrote to Mr S. In its letter it agreed the policy had been mis-sold.
Lloyds says Mr S repaid the loan in July 2020 after only making two monthly repayments. 
And Lloyds says the insurance company rebated £1,434.62 of the PPI premium when the 
loan was repaid early and the PPI cancelled.
Lloyds offered a total of £366.55 compensation to Mr S for the mis-sale of the policy.
Mr S remained unhappy with the offer from Lloyds. Mr S says he would not have gone to the 
trouble of taking out such a loan only to repay it after only two months.
An adjudicator from this service thought Lloyds offer was fair. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events took place 23 years and Lloyds has not retained full details of the loan such as a 
full account history. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has 
gone by since the sale took place. I would not expect a business to retain records 
indefinitely. Because there is  limited information, I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account  the evidence available, what  both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of loans and PPI.
Lloyds told us the loan began on 20 April 1997 and was repaid on 4 July 1997. 
This service asked for evidence that the loan was closed early. Lloyds showed us a 
screenshot of its internal Branch IT system (BIT) which it uses to search its records for old 
loans. The screenshot shows the loan was closed on 4 July 1997.
From experience I am aware the system used by Lloyds to search for details of old loans 
can generally be relied upon.
I understand Mr Ss point that its unlikely hed have taken out a five-year loan with PPI if 
hed intended to repay it after only two months. But circumstances can change quickly, and 
its possible Mr Ss plans changed in 1997 which led him to repay the loan after only two 
months. It could be, for instance that Mr S realised a PPI policy with a premium of £1,534.40 
had been added to the loan and wanted it removed. The only way to do this would be to 
repay the whole loan and take another without PPI possibly with another provider. 
I also note that Mr S took out an earlier loan in April 1995 for £3,000 over 60 months and this 
loan was also repaid early on 4 July 1997. 
Ultimately I cant know why the loan was repaid early but the limited information Ive seen 
suggests the loan most likely only ran from April to July 1997.
When a single premium PPI policy is cancelled early the insurer will pay a rebate , the size 
of this rebate depends on how soon after inception it is cancelled. Lloyds says the rebate for 
Mr Ss policy would have been £1,432.62. From experience this seems reasonable given 
that the policy only ran for a little over two months. And the rebate would have been 
deducted from the amount owing when the loan was repaid.
Looking at Lloyds calculations, I can see that based on Mr Ss loan running from 20 April to   
4 July 1997 it has refunded him everything extra he would have been charged for the PPI 
and has added simple interest calculated at 8% simple for the time Mr S has been out of 
pocket.
In summary, from the evidence Ive seen I think it is most likely the loan ran from April to July 
1997 and was repaid early. I think Lloyds has calculated the compensation it owes Mr S 
fairly and in line with how Id expect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman