DRN-3130110
The complaint
Miss B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt pay a direct debit as it should. This meant that 
her insurer cancelled her insurance.
What happened
Miss B had a direct debit in place on her current account to pay for pet insurance with a 
business Ill refer to as H. In November 2020 Miss B didnt have enough money to pay her 
monthly premium, so H said theyd collect premiums for November 2020 and December 
2020 when it took her December 2020 payment. That meant that £29.84 was due on 7 
December 2020.
On 7 December 2020 Miss D received a text message from Lloyds advising her that 
payments due that day would take her into an unarranged overdraft. The text asked her to 
pay cleared funds into her account to cover the payments. 
Miss B has told us that after she received the text she also checked her account. She said 
she could see that the direct debit had been paid, and shed had the money she needed to 
pay it when pending transactions were considered. So she took no further action.
Miss B also paid £366.61 into her account using a cheque on 7 December 2020. 
Unfortunately the direct debit to H that had been paid went on to be returned. That happened 
because Miss B didnt have enough money in her account for the payment to clear once all 
the pending transactions were taken into account. It meant the 7 December 2020 payment to 
H wasnt paid.
In January 2021 Miss B phoned H to make a claim against her policy as her dog had sadly 
passed away. H told Miss B her policy had been cancelled as shed missed two consecutive 
payments. This meant that Miss B wasnt covered for her dogs vet fees and cremation 
costs.
In March 2021 Miss B phoned Lloyds to ask why the December 2020 direct debit hadnt 
been paid. On this call the agent confirmed that Miss B had had enough money in her 
account to pay the direct debit. So the agent advised Miss B to contact H directly. 
A couple of days later Lloyds contacted Miss B to say that the agent Miss B had spoken to 
had made a mistake. Despite what shed been told there hadnt been enough money in 
Miss Bs account on 7 December to pay the direct debit to H. It seems the agent made the 
mistake because theyd mistakenly assumed the cheque Miss B had paid into her account 
on 7 December had cleared, when it hadnt. Cheques normally take a number of days to 
clear.
On 6 March 2021 Lloyds issued a final response letter. In it they apologised for mistakenly 
telling Miss B that there had been enough money in her account to cover the 7 December 
direct debit and offered Miss B £50 compensation for that. But they went on to say that 
Lloyds hadnt made a mistake on 7 December.
Miss B complained to our service. Shes adamant that account information she was provided 
with on 7 December 2020 showed she had enough money in her account on 7 December 
2020 to pay the direct debit. 
Miss B provided us with a screenshot from 7 December 2020 to show that the direct debit 
had been paid. Our investigator considered this. Our investigator also looked into Miss Bs 
account at that time. She said that Miss Bs balance was £1,917.94 overdrawn on 7 
December 2020. As she had a £2,000 arranged overdraft, that indicated £82.06 was 
available to pay the direct debit. 
However, our investigator said that the balance didnt take into consideration Miss Bs 
pending transactions. She explained that pending transactions are recent payments which 
havent been fully processed by the merchants. So banks set money aside for these until the 
merchant collects the money. Our investigator said Lloyds have provided us with a summary 
of Miss B pending transactions for 7 December 2020. These amounted to £69.61. 
That meant that Miss Bs balance prior to paying the direct debit was £1,987.55, so the 
£29.84 couldnt be paid without exceeding her arranged overdraft. So our investigator 
understood why the direct debit went unpaid.
Our investigator also said that shed considered whether Lloyds took reasonable steps to let 
Miss B know that her payments would exceed your overdraft limit. She thought they did, as 
the 7 December 2020 text message Miss B was sent was clear that the payments due would 
take her into an unarranged overdraft. So it advised Miss B to pay cleared funds into her 
account to cover the payments. Our investigator could see that Miss B paid the £366.61 into 
her account on that day, but that money wasnt immediately available to her as it hadnt 
cleared on 7 December 2020.
Finally our investigator looked into the incorrect information Miss B was given in March 2021. 
She appreciated why Miss B wouldve been upset by this. However, she considered that 
Lloyds had apologised for this mistake and offered to pay her £50 compensation. She said 
that £50 was in line with what shed recommend Lloyds to do to put things right. So she 
didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
Miss B asked for her complaint to be reviewed. She remains adamant that her account 
showed she had enough money to pay the direct debit on 7 December 2020, bearing in mind 
pending transactions. She said it isnt her fault that some pending transactions didnt show 
up. If shed known there still wasnt sufficient money in the account to pay the direct debit, 
she couldnt have used money in another account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Miss B is upset that her pet insurance policy was cancelled after her December 2020 direct 
debit wasnt paid. She has told us this meant that her vets fees and cremation costs werent 
paid in January 2020 when her dog passed away. I can understand what an upsetting period 
this would have been for Miss B, and how these costs not being covered wouldve added to 
her distress. However, I dont think Lloyds is responsible for this.Miss B has told us that after she received the text from Lloyds on 7 December 2020, she 
logged on to her account. However, she could see (and she has provided us with evidence 
to show) that the direct debit to H had been paid. So she didnt do anything further about the 
text.
Theres no doubt that the direct debit was paid on 7 December 2020, so I do understand 
Miss Bs position. However, the direct debit went on to be returned that day as the pending 
transactions on Miss Bs account meant that the direct debit could only be paid by Miss B 
exceeding her arranged overdraft. I dont think Lloyds made a mistake in relation to this. The 
overdraft charge and pending transactions on her account meant that Miss B would exceed 
her arranged overdraft, and Lloyds wasnt obliged to give her an unarranged overdraft.
 
Miss B has told us that she took her pending transactions into account when she decided 
she didnt need to take any further action after logging on to her account. She says it isnt 
her fault that some pending transactions didnt show up. Its not clear to me what Miss B saw 
when she checked her account, or whether Miss B looked at her account statement. But Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that pending transactions werent available for Miss B to see. If 
Miss B was unsure why she was sent the text when it appeared that she had enough money 
to cover all the payments due that day, she couldve contacted Lloyds about it.
 
So while I understand the impact the missed payment had on Miss B, I dont think the direct 
debit was missed because of a mistake by Lloyds. In the circumstances, I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require it to do anything further in relation to this.
Ive also considered what happened in March 2021 when Miss B spoke to Lloyds on the 
phone about the direct debit in December 2020. Lloyds have accepted it made a mistake on 
this call. Im sure that phone call caused some confusion and might have caused Miss B to 
doubt what Lloyds has told us what happened in December 2020. However, I can see that in 
March 2021 Lloyds paid Miss B £50 compensation for that mistake. I think thats a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation to pay Miss B given the nature of the mistake and the 
amount of time she was affected by it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman