DRN-4004110
The complaint
Mr B says that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to 
his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr B held an account with HSBC with a £800 overdraft. Mr B complained to HSBC regarding 
the overdraft charges applied to the account which he says caused him financial difficulties.  
HSBC says all the charges were correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and that it supported Mr B by writing to him regarding the status of the account, 
sending text alerts and asking him to contact its financial support team and providing the 
details of external debt advice organisations that could help.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought having reviewed 
Mr Bs statements that HSBC should refund all fees and charges applied to Mr Bs account 
from January 2017 because if it had reviewed his account it wouldve seen that Mr B was 
clearly struggling and that his overdraft usage was not sustainable. They didnt think HSBC 
went far enough in supporting Mr B with his overdraft and there shouldve been some 
changes to the way it was offering overdrafts. 
HSBC disagreed. It says since 2016 it had made multiple invitations to Mr B to contact it. It 
says as the customer didnt reach out there was nothing more it could do as it couldnt force 
the customer into collections and that when the account did meet collections criteria 
appropriate action was taken. 
So the complaint came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr Bs account from January 
2017. 
By this point HSBC ought to have realised that Mr Bs use of his overdraft was unsustainable 
and that Mr B was in no position to repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr Bs statements show he was living off borrowed money in the form of student, payday 
and other loans and that he was unable to see or maintain a credit balance for any 
reasonable period of time and often had direct debits returned.  In these circumstances, 
HSBC ought to have realised that Mr B was at a significant risk of being unable to repay 
what he already owed. 
HSBC say Mr B never responded to its invitations to contact it and that he didnt meet its 
collections criteria. But by HSBCs own admission it says it wrote to Mr B on 61 occasions 
from 2016 regarding the use of his overdraft before it issued a final demand letter in January 
2022. So I think it was clearly aware Mr B wasnt using the overdraft as intended but HSBC 
still took no proactive action for over five years. HSBC should have stopped providing the 
overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr B with forbearance rather than charge even 
more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. 
Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of MR Bs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit file, HSBC 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in January 2017. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from MR Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and 
direct it pay the fair compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman