DRN-3658902
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have failed to refund over £18,000 
he says he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr C says he fell victim to an investment scam with CONGYV.com in April 2021 after he was 
encouraged to invest by someone he met on a dating app. He made payments collectively 
totalling over £18,000 to crypto platforms Binance and Buy Digital Asset. Barclays refused to 
refund the money Mr C had lost as it said he had authorised the payments. However, it did 
offer £100 for providing incorrect information after Mr C reported the fraud.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Barclays ought to have 
intervened on the basis of there being unusual activity on Mr Cs account but didnt think this 
would have ultimately prevented the loss due to his belief in the investment being legitimate. 
The investigator also thought Barclays offer of £100 was fair for the service it had provided. 
Mr C disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr C authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
cryptocurrency platform using his Barclays debit card, where the funds were then 
subsequently moved on to the scammer. The payments were requested by him using his 
legitimate security credentials provided by Barclays, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Barclays should have done more to prevent Mr C from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Having reviewed the first three payments made by Mr C, I dont think these were enough 
in themselves to have warranted an intervention by Barclays, as they were not so 
unusual as to amount to a significant deviation in the way the account was normally run. 
However, by the time he was making multiple payments on 4 April 2021, he had sent 
almost £10,000 in one day. Successive payments of large amounts can often be 
indicative of fraudulent activity, so I think Barclays ought to have intervened on 4 April 
2021 at the very least. 
However, even if Barclays had intervened at this or any earlier point and asked further 
questions about the nature of the payments Mr C was making, Im not persuaded it 
would have likely stopped him from proceeding or have ultimately prevented his loss. Ill 
explain why.
Mr C was convinced into making the investment by an individual he had met through a 
dating site, whom he had built a relationship of trust over time. He said he had no reason 
to believe the person was scamming him due to the personable relationship he had built 
with them, and that he was satisfied the investment platform was genuine as the 
company carried out due diligence such as Know Your Customer checks. Mr C also 
carried out his own checks on review websites that blacklist scam companies but said he 
could not find any warnings about the merchant at the time. Mr C had also been able to 
make withdrawals from the fraudulent platform back to his Binance wallet, so he was 
confident that everything was legitimate. 
So, even if Barclays had intervened and provided Mr C with a scam warning, Im not 
persuaded it would have led Mr C into discovering he was being scammed, as he had no 
reason to doubt the legitimacy of the merchant or the investment. Mr C has said himself 
that there was very little negative information about the merchant online when he was 
conducting his research. So, there wouldnt have been anything significant to alert him to 
the fact that he was being scammed at the time, particularly when it had been 
recommended by someone he had come to trust. Therefore, I dont think Barclays 
failure to intervene can reasonably be considered the proximate cause of Mr Cs loss in 
these circumstances, as it seems likely he would have proceeded to make the 
transactions irrespective of any intervention by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr C reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a debit card 
can be recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, a chargeback is a 
voluntary scheme run by card providers such as Visa and Mastercard. That process is 
subject to the rules of the scheme and we wouldnt expect a bank to pursue matters to 
final arbitration if there was no prospect of success.
In these circumstances, Mr C used his debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange 
platforms before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances 
because the service would be considered provided (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). 
Therefore, I do not think Barclays have acted unreasonably by failing to pursue his 
chargeback claim any further in these circumstances.
In terms of the service Mr C received, I acknowledge he was given incorrect information 
about whether a debit card dispute could be set up, and that he also had to chase 
Barclays for its response to his fraud investigation. I understand this would have been 
frustrating, particularly at such a stressful time after realising he had been scammed. 
However, Barclays has offered £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I appreciate this may not feel commensurate to the experience 
Mr C has had as a result of the scam, but I dont consider Barclays error to warrant any 
higher award of compensation in these circumstances. My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC have made an offer to pay a total of £100.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Barclays should pay Mr C (if it has not done so already) within 28 days of receiving his 
acceptance of this decision.
Mr C should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and 
he probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, it will purely be a matter between Mr C and Barclays as to whether the £100 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman