DRN-3467412
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Watford Insurance Europe Company Limiteds decision to 
cancel his car insurance policy for failing to pay an additional premium. Watford says Mr D 
didnt tell it the correct value for his car when he bought the policy.
All reference to the insurer Watford includes its agents.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr D bought the policy through a broker acting on his behalf. Mr D said the 
value of his car was £14,380. When he called to report an incident in August 2021, he was 
asked what the value of his car was and he said around £18,000.
The insurer Watford carried out a valuation check for Mr Ds car using one of the main motor 
trade guides. The valuation was for £19,329. Watford told the broker that Mr D owed an 
additional premium due to the valuation he gave for his car when he bought it.
The broker contacted Mr D to inform him of the additional premium he owed to Watford. As it 
didnt hear from him, it sent Mr D a seven day cancellation notice. Mr Ds policy was 
cancelled a week later on 4 September 2021 due to the additional premium not being paid.
After the policy was cancelled, Mr D said he subsequently paid the additional premium he 
owed. But he complained about the cancellation of his policy and the way his claim had been 
handled. He said he made several calls and wasnt able to get a clear reply as to why his 
policy was cancelled. He said he didnt receive any letters or calls to tell him he owed an 
additional premium. Mr D said he discovered an email on a Friday confirming his policy 
would cancel on the Monday  he didnt think it fair he was given only three days notice.
Watford said it had correctly carried out the cancellation in line with the process set out 
under the policy. It said any issues Mr D experienced with calls he had with the broker about 
the cancellation process and about his claim were separate.
In October 2021 Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. He said the repairs were estimated 
at £5,000. He said he decided to carry out minimum repairs and sell the car. He provided 
invoice proof of the amount he paid for the car when he bought it in February 2020, just over 
a year before he bought the policy. He paid £16,500 for it from a dealership garage. He 
received funds for £15,500 in October 2021 when he sold the car, just over a month after the 
policy was cancelled by Watford.
Mr D said he couldnt exactly remember why he valued the car at £18,000 in the call, but he 
thought it was because hed looked online at a similar car for sale. He said he estimated the 
value of his car at £14,380 in March 2020 as it had done a significant number of miles since 
hed bought it the year before.
Our Investigator explained to both parties that Mr D could raise a separate complaint against 
the broker for the poor service he says he received.
Our Investigator thought it was unfair for Watford to have relied on the valuation Mr D gave 
when he reported the incident  she thought it should have been clearer and better 
communicated to Mr D about the valuation of his car before cancelling his policy.
The Investigator recommended Watford take the following action to put things right:
 Pay Mr D the difference between the market valuation it obtained of £19,239 and the 
sale price of £15,500 for the car with interest.
 Pay Mr D £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused as Mr D 
was significantly out of pocket due to Watfords actions in cancelling the policy and 
not meeting Mr Ds claim.
Mr D acknowledged the Investigators findings and recommendations. Watford didnt agree. 
In summary it says:
 if Watford is expected to settle the claim by paying a settlement amount, the 
additional premium and premium for the policy year would be correctly due as the 
policy would have been used. The additional premium was rightly due for the correct 
value of the car.
 It advised Mr D that once the additional premium was paid, the claim could be dealt 
with. Mr D chose not to pursue his claim for repairs.
 As Mr D chose not to pursue his claim, the recommended compensation award of 
£400 isnt fair as it was Mr Ds decision to be out of pocket by not claiming.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 April 2022. I thought Watford should have considered the 
relevant law: The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  
which I think applies in this case - as Watford says Mr D misrepresented the value of his car 
when he bought the policy. 
Having considered CIDRA, I didnt think Mr D had made a qualifying misrepresentation when 
providing an estimated value for his car. I thought Watford had provided a market value 
policy and not an agreed value policy. Therefore I didnt think it fair or reasonable for Watford 
to rely on the estimated value being wrong as a reason to charge Mr D an additional 
premium which led to the cancellation of his policy. I said that even if Mr D had made a 
qualifying misrepresentation  I didnt think Watford had acted reasonably as it should have 
dealt with the claim on a proportionate basis rather than insisting Mr D pay an additional 
premium which led to his policy being cancelled. 
I hadnt seen the question Mr D was asked about the value of his vehicle when he applied 
for the policy. Id seen the estimated value set out under the policy schedule. I said I would 
reconsider this point if Watford provided further details. 
I found that Watford hadnt replied to Mr Ds complaint about the way the claim was handled. 
In response to my provisional decision, Watford said that the claim complaint had been dealt 
with separately by the claims handling agent and broker. 
Watford doesnt agree its fair for Mr D to receive a full claim amount when he didnt pay a 
full premium for the correct value of his car. And as Mr D chose not to claim for repairs  and 
it was his decision not to pay the higher amount which led to the cancellation of the policy -  
it doesnt agree it should pay interest on a settlement sum or that the recommended 
compensation of £400 is fair. Watford says Mr D has paid 94% of the premium he should have paid and therefore if the ombudsman upholds the complaint, Watford should pay no 
more than 94% of the total loss settlement sum as a pro rata settlement.
Watford said it charged Mr D a lower premium based on the estimated value he gave when 
he bought the policy. However it says it is a market value policy and not an agreed value 
policy. Watford has provided underwriting information to show the rate it applies to the 
premium depending on the valuation a consumer gives for their car when they apply for a 
policy.  
Watford doesnt consider it reasonable for it to deal with Mr Ds claim based on the premium 
he paid  as he didnt want to pay the higher premium. 
Mr D accepted my provisional decision. As Watford didnt agree, the case has been passed 
back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within our inquisitorial remit, Ive considered whether Watfords decision to charge Mr D an 
additional premium  which led to the cancellation of his policy and his complaint  was 
reasonable.
Ive looked at Watfords policy wording, the proposal form and the policy schedule. This isnt 
an agreed value policy. Agreed Value policies are specialist insurance policies where the 
insurer sets the premium in return for providing cover up to an agreed value for a vehicle. In 
response to my provisional decision, Watford agrees with this  but says it does charge a 
premium depending on the estimated value a consumer gives. 
The value Mr D provided on the schedule is written as an estimated value. We looked at the 
main motor trade guides which provided market valuations for Mr Ds car ranging between 
£15,395 to £18,660  a variation of almost £3,000.
Under the policy wording, there is no reference to Watfords requirement for Mr D to provide 
a valuation for the vehicle. I havent seen the question Mr D was asked about the value of 
his vehicle when he applied for the policy. Watford hasnt provided further information in 
response to my provisional decision. 
As with most motor insurance policies Ive seen (that arent agreed value policies) Watford 
provides a definition of the market value which is the most it will pay in the event of a claim. 
In other words, the market value for a vehicle is the most an insurer will indemnify a 
customer for.
Watfords definition of market value is:
The retail Market Value based on that listed in the current Glasses Guide for 
purchasing, or replacing, the insured vehicle with one of the same make, model, age, 
trim level, recorded mileage and being in a similar condition. Glasses Guide is a 
motor trade publication recognised and used extensively throughout the motor 
vehicle industry to value new/used vehicles. Where Glasses Guide is not available or 
there is a dispute over valuation with Your insurer, We will consider alternative 
equivalent motor trade publications such as CAP (CAP Motor Research Ltd) or 
Parkers Guide.I havent seen anything to say that Watford will base the premium a customer pays on an 
estimated value for their car instead of the market value of it. We asked Watford if it carried 
out any valuation checks when Mr D bought the policy. It said it didnt.
Watford hasnt said that it considered the relevant law which I think applies in this case - as it 
says Mr D misrepresented the value of his car when he bought the policy.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation.
An example of the actions an insurer can take where it would have otherwise charged a 
higher premium is to pay a proportionately reduced claim settlement. CIDRA does not give 
insurers the right to charge an additional premium. So we dont think its fair for an insurer to 
impose an additional premium on a consumer. That means it would be unfair for an insurer 
to force or pressurise a customer to pay it. And it would be unfair for the insurer to take the 
money directly from the consumers bank account without their prior agreement.
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
So as a starting point, an insurer needs to show that a qualifying misrepresentation took 
place.
In this case, I dont think Watford has shown that a qualifying misrepresentation took place 
when Mr D provided an estimated value for his car. So I dont think it matters what valuation 
estimate Mr D gave when he called to report the incident. 
In this case, Watford decided that Mr Ds valuation of his car was wrong when he applied for 
the policy. But it didnt carry out any checks  and hasnt provided information to show how it 
explained the importance of providing an estimated value  when Mr D applied for the policy. 
I dont know how Watford can conclude that Mr D provided an incorrect valuation for his car. 
The valuation of his car when Mr D claimed wasnt the same valuation as when he bought 
the policy in any event - as this is a market value policy. Watford doesnt appear to have 
applied the increase in premium based on the valuation of his car when Mr D bought the 
policy - but when he claimed. This is clearly an unfair term to apply. 
So in line with my provisional decision, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Watford to 
request an additional premium from Mr D  and to cancel his policy because he failed to pay 
it. Even if Mr D had made a qualifying misrepresentation  and I dont think he did  Watford 
didnt give Mr D the option to either pay the additional premium or settle the claim and any 
future claims under the policy proportionately. I think this was unfair.
It therefore follows that the original option of making a claim for repairs was open to Mr D 
without the need to pay an additional premium. As the failure to pay the additional premium 
was the reason why Watford cancelled the policy, I think it acted unreasonably.
When Mr D complained to Watford, he raised concerns about the handling of his claim. He 
said Watford had decided not to pursue the third party insurers, had asked him for the registration details of the third party car when already provided, and had failed to contact two 
witnesses of which hed provided details.
In my provisional decision I said I couldnt see that Watford addressed this part of Mr Ds 
complaint in its final response letter dated 23 September 2021. I said I would consider any 
further information Watford provides in response to my provisional decision. I noted that in 
November 2021 Watford closed the claim as it hadnt received any information from the third 
party insurers.
In response, Watford says the broker and claims handling agent has responded to Mr Ds 
complaints about the way the claim was handled separately. This service is investigating Mr 
Ds concerns about the handling of the claim separately. So I havent formed any 
conclusions about this part of Mr Ds complaint in my final decision here. 
However, while Watford has passed the administration of the claim handling to another 
party, the outcome in relation to the claim settlement is within my remit to set out within this 
decision  as any claim made under the policy is made under the contract which is with the 
underwriter (Watford) of the policy. 
Due to the time that has passed and the fact Mr D sold his car after carrying out what he 
describes as minimal repairs, its not possible to ask Watford to either pay the equivalent 
costs to proportionately repair Mr Ds car  although if Mr D did pay the additional amount  I 
think Watford would be liable to cover all of the repair costs.
In my provisional decision I said I hadnt seen the engineers report so I didnt know what the 
estimated costs were to repair Mr Ds car. I said I would review the report if Watford provides 
a copy. Mr D told us the estimated costs to repair his car were £5,000.
Watford hasnt provided a copy of the engineers report.
Its also worth mentioning that Mr D told us that he intended to sell his car at some point due 
to the high mileage and this decision was separate to his complaint. But I dont think this 
detracts from the fact that Mr D seems to have sold his car for around £4,000 less than the 
valuation Watford relied on of £19,239. Mr D has provided a copy of his bank statement 
showing a bank transfer to his account with the car registration details for a sum of £15,500. 
Im reasonably satisfied from the evidence Mr D has provided that this is the sum he 
received for his car when he sold it.
So the remaining issue for me to decide is a fair outcome to resolve Mr Ds complaint. In line 
with my provisional decision, I think Watford should provide a letter confirming the 
cancellation was an error on its part and remove any record of the cancellation on internal 
and external databases. I say this because  but for the fact Mr D didnt pay the additional 
premium  his policy would have continued. And I think, given the estimated costs of the 
repairs, its more likely than not Mr D would have claimed for the repairs under the policy.
So the remedy set out below is the same as my provisional recommendations to put things 
right. And as Im requiring Watford to meet the claim, the policy has therefore been used and 
so Watford can deduct the yearly premium  but at the original rate  from the balance 
settlement it pays Mr D.
Watford doesnt agree a fair compensation award is £400. But I think Mr D was unfairly 
asked to pay a higher premium  which led to the cancellation of his policy  and impacted 
his decision to claim for repairs to his car. Hes had the impact of having a cancelled policy 
and been out of pocket in arranging interim repairs and selling his car for considerably less 
than the market value of it. So I think £400 compensation is an appropriate award to reflect the distress and inconvenience Watford caused Mr D. 
Its not clear if Mr D paid the additional premium  or if he paid it after the policy was 
cancelled. Ive factored the possibility of either outcome into my recommendations below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to do the following:
 Pay Mr D the difference between the market valuation it obtained of £19,239 and the 
sale price of £15,500 for the car minus the original premium for the policy - taking into 
account the balance higher premium (if paid) and amendment fee Mr D paid which I 
think wasnt owed. Watford should provide a clear breakdown to Mr D when it pays 
the final balance settlement.
 Pay interest on the balance at a rate of 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
the claim to the date it pays.
 Pay Mr D £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused as Mr D 
was significantly out of pocket due to Watfords actions in cancelling the policy and 
not meeting Mr Ds claim.
 Provide Mr D with a letter confirming the cancellation was made an error by Watford 
Insurance Company Europe Limited. Remove a record of the cancellation on any 
internal and external databases.
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
If Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman