DRN-2813785
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) wont replace the damaged TV she 
received in settlement of an insurance claim. Mrs R had buildings and contents insurance 
with Aviva, including cover for accidental damage.
What happened
Aviva accepted a claim for Mrs Rs TV and issued a replacement under the terms of her 
policy. When Mrs R opened the box, she found that the TV was damaged. She reported it to 
Aviva and asked for a new replacement. Aviva declined because she hadnt opened the box 
within 24 hours.
Mrs R complained to Aviva because she hadnt been told that she needed to check the TV. 
Aviva listened to the claim call and confirmed that its agent had told Mrs R to open the box 
within 24 hours of delivery, or reject the delivery if the box itself showed any signs of 
damage. Mrs R didnt agree shed been told that, and repeated her request for a 
replacement.
Aviva told Mrs R she wasnt covered under her home insurance for a new replacement 
because it mustve been damaged during delivery. Therefore, it wasnt accidental damage in 
her home. Aviva also said TVs arent covered under the personal possessions term.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Aviva had acted fairly, and in 
line with the terms of the policy so he didnt think Aviva needed to replace the TV.
Mrs R didnt agree. She explained that the TV was heavy, and she couldnt lift it out of the 
box on her own, so she waited for help before she could check for damage.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will be disappointing for Mrs R, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Mrs R had made a successful claim against her insurance, which is why Aviva delivered a 
new TV. Aviva says that during the claim call, its agent told Mrs R shed need to open the 
box and check for damage. Mrs R says she wasnt told this.
Ive listened to the claim call during which Aviva offered Mrs R the replacement TV. Aviva 
told Mrs R to decline the delivery if the box was damaged, which she acknowledged. Aviva 
also told Mrs R to check for damage inside the box within 24 hours if there wasnt any visible 
damage on the outside, to which she responded, yep, ok. I think thats a reasonable 
request because it allowed Mrs R a day to remove the TV from its packaging, check for any 
damage which mightve happened in transit, and set up the TV to make sure it was working. 
So, having heard the claim call, Im satisfied that Aviva gave Mrs R instructions on what to 
do when she received the replacement TV and that she acknowledged those instructions. 
Mrs R didnt check the contents of the box until two months later, at which point she found 
extensive damage to the front of the TV. Aviva didnt think the damage had happened in the 
warehouse before packaging because it wouldnt have passed quality checks. The box 
wasnt damaged, so it concluded that the box mustve fallen flat against a hard floor. Having 
considered the evidence, I think thats a reasonable conclusion, and I dont think Mrs R 
disagrees.
The issue, then, is Mrs R doesnt think she should have to accept a damaged TV, but Aviva 
doesnt think it should have to replace it two months after delivery. I assume thats because it 
cant be sure, so long after delivery, when the damage occurred.
Mrs R says the damage didnt happen in her home and I have no reason to doubt that. Had 
the TV fallen and broken in her home, she wouldve been able to claim under the accidental 
damage cover of her contents insurance again. But, because she says it was damaged 
before delivery, Ive thought about whether it was fair for Aviva to decline her request for a 
replacement for the reason it gave. 
Mrs R says she couldnt unpack the box herself because the TV was heavy, and she needed 
to wait for help. While I accept her reason, I dont think that means Aviva should replace the 
TV. Aviva doesnt have any evidence that the TV was damaged during delivery and, as the 
damage wasnt discovered until two months later, I think it was reasonable that Aviva 
rejected Mrs Rs request for a new replacement.
Essentially, neither party can prove when it was damaged. But, if Mrs R had checked within 
24 hours of receipt, and found it damaged, then its likely Aviva couldve arranged for a 
replacement. I think its reasonable that Aviva rejected Mrs Rs request for a replacement 
because she didnt check for damage within the time required, and its not fair to assume, 
after being in Mrs Rs possession for two months, that the TV was damaged before or during 
delivery.
Overall, while I understand that this will be frustrating for Mrs R, I cant see that Aviva has 
done anything wrong. I wont be asking it to replace the TV.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman