DRN-4089261
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a claim he made on his First Title Insurance Plc title insurance 
policy for known risks, which was declined.
Mr W doesnt think this is fair and has asked us to consider whether First Title were right to 
do so.
What happened
Mr Ws land has a condition placed on it which prohibits other buildings being built on it 
without consent from another company. 
Mr W planned to build on his land, but his neighbour objected to this and threatened to bring 
Court proceedings preventing him from doing so.
The First Title policy is intended to protect Mr W from specified adverse risks in relation to 
attempts to enforce the condition which relates to his land. When his neighbour threatened 
to take action against him, Mr W claimed on the policy to help him with this. 
First Title declined the claim. They said there wasnt a claim under the policy they could 
consider because Mr Ws neighbour had not taken any steps to enforce the condition 
affecting his land by issuing court proceedings. They said they would however be prepared 
to assist him if his neighbour issued proceedings against him in future. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this position. He thought it exposed him to unnecessary risk and 
cost, particularly if he went ahead with his development and his neighbour issued 
proceedings against him at that point or even later. He felt that cover wasnt guaranteed by 
First Title and that he could find himself in a worse position for proceeding with the work. He 
asked First Title instead to help him remove the condition from his land. First Title declined.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He 
agreed with First Title that there wasnt anything for them to indemnify because Mr W hadnt 
yet suffered a loss in relation to a known risk because proceedings hadnt yet been issued 
against him. He also said it was at First Titles discretion to fund a claim before this 
happened and that they were entitled to decline such a request as they had in this case. 
Mr W doesnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint for broadly the same reasons set out 
by the investigator. Ive explained why below.
In this complaint Mr W has asked us to determine whether he has a valid claim under the 
policy. But I dont think thats the correct question. The complaint, as brought to us, concerns 
First Titles decision not to cover a claim on his behalf at present. It follows that the complaint 
Im looking at is whether it was fair for them to decline cover in the way that they have.
There has also been significant discourse between the parties about what might and might 
not be covered by First Title in future scenarios.  First Title has given some assurances 
about that. But as these arent issues that were brought to this Service to consider, I wont 
be commenting on them further or deciding whether they are fair. If the subject matter of that 
discourse is later in dispute, that will then form the basis of a new complaint and not one I 
can consider here.
The starting point here is the policy terms. They cover a Known Risk which is defined as:
A claim by a third party enforcing the breach of title conditions contained in a Disposition by 
(a particular company to a particular individual on a particular date) which states that our 
said disponees and their foresaids shall be prohibited from erecting any other buildings in 
the subjects hereby disponed without our written consent which consent shall not be 
unreasonably withheld because the Land is being developed for the purposes of the Insured 
Use.
The Insured Use that is defined in the policy relates to a specific planning application for 
the development of a further single residential dwelling house on Mr Ws land.
Mr W argues that his First Title policy should have engaged because the policy defines the 
word Claim as any act by a third party in relation to the Known Risk and his neighbours 
threat to issue proceedings falls into this category. He makes the specific point that the 
policy definition of Claim doesnt require court proceedings to be issued against him before 
cover engages.
Its correct that the policy definition of Claim is as described above but that definition isnt 
necessarily applicable to the context in which it is used in the definition of Known Risk. I 
say so because reference to claim isnt capitalised as it is elsewhere in the policy, and I dont 
in any event think these references in isolation inform whether First Title need to fund the 
claim that Mr W has made as it stands. 
In order to determine that point, I have looked at the policy as a whole. In doing so Ive noted 
that it covers Actual Loss which is defined more specifically at clause 1.1 as follow:
1.1 'Actual Loss' means any and all of:
1.1.1 the difference between the Fair Value of the Land immediately before the date of an 
Order or Settlement and the Market Value of the Land immediately after the date of an Order 
or Settlement;
1.1.2 all sums that the Insured is legally liable to pay pursuant to or as a result of an Order;
1.1.3 all sums that the Insured is legally liable to pay pursuant to a Settlement;
1.1.4 sums expended by the Insured, or that the Insured has contracted to expend, on 
alteration, construction or demolition works on the Land in accordance with the Insured Use 
(including architects, lawyers and surveyors fees directly relating to such works), to the 
extent that these are made abortive by the Order or Settlement; and
1.1.5 interest payable by the Insured under the terms of a standard security over the Land or 
part of it, over any period of time in which the Insured is unable to pursue its intended 
development works in compliance with the Insured Use either (a) as a result of an Order for an interim interdict in respect of the Known Risk suspending the carrying out of such works 
or (b) pursuant to a request from First Title to suspend the carrying out of such works 
pending the resolution of a Claim.
In this case there is no Actual Loss at present because the threat from Mr Ws neighbour 
doesnt amount to this. And whilst its true that the policy allows First Title to take a number 
of actions like reducing or eradicating the Known Risk, defending, minimising, mitigating or 
defeating the Claim and/or paying to settle it, this is entirely at their discretion- and they are 
not obliged to do so.  Thats because the policy says In the event that the Insured notifies 
First Title of a Claim or a circumstance that may give rise to a Claim, First Title may (my 
emphasis) take any action (including starting legal proceedings in its own or the Insureds 
name) So overall, Im not persuaded that First Title were wrong to decline Mr Ws claim 
as it stands.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ws concerns that First Title may not cover him for any specific 
losses should he proceed with his development and find himself on the other end of 
proceedings from the neighbour either during or after his work is completed. But that doesnt 
mean that First Title were wrong to take the action they did here in declining his claim. It is of 
course quite possible that Mr W would be exposing himself to considerable risk by going 
ahead with the work. I can see that there are a number of variables that might add to this 
risk- such as the type of claim the neighbour might make or potentially arguments that the 
work itself isnt in line with the Insured Use. I cant comment on what might happen and 
whether First Title would be correct to decline or cover a claim in future hypothetical 
scenarios. I can only decide the complaint based on the current facts of the claim being 
declined. In these circumstances, I take the view that First Title didnt do anything wrong and 
were entitled to turn the claim down in the way that they have. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against First Title Insurance 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman