DRN-2342317
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he acquired financed with a hire purchase agreement from Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) was not of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
Mr B acquired a used car in March 2018, using finance provided by BMF. He said while on 
the way home from the dealership the car started smoking and shortly after it broke down. 
Mr B raised a complaint with BMF in April. A repair was completed and BMF issued a final 
response letter in June.
In August 2019 Mr B said the car didnt start and found what appeared to be oil in the 
coolant. He then arranged for a mechanic to look at the vehicle who also identified the same 
issue. The mechanic said the engine had seized. He complained to BMF again. In its final 
response in October BMF said the evidence Mr B had provided did not confirm the faults 
were there or developing at the point of sale and did not uphold his complaint. So Mr B 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said that the independent inspection carried out in April 2018 had noted a 
number of faults with the vehicle and that they were present or had been developing at the 
point of sale. She said no job card was available but based on BMF system notes it appears 
the repair was for the head gasket. She said the issue identified during the inspection 
involving to the coolant system, about which Mr B now complains, went unrepaired. 
BMF requested a further independent inspection. Following this our investigator maintained 
her view that the car was not of satisfactory quality. She said without the job card its not 
possible to be sure if the issues which caused the head gasket to fail were actually repaired. 
BMF disagreed with this view and provided further comments from the inspector. The 
inspector had noted there was no evidence presented at the time to suggest the current 
symptoms were associated with the previous repair. BMF also said Mr B has been able to 
cover over 10,000 miles and used the vehicle without monitoring the oil leak. 
Our investigator did consider BMFs further comments and information but was persuaded 
the faults currently present are linked to those which occurred in April 2018. And that only 
the head gasket had been repaired at the time. She also confirmed it was possible to keep 
driving the car while having to frequently top up with coolant. She concluded that Mr B could 
reject the car. 
BMF disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will be upholding this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I must have regard to the relevant law and   
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr Bs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
can consider complaints relating to it. In this complaint BMF supplied the goods, i.e. the car, 
to Mr B and its therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the car. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. It says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. So, I must consider whether or not the car was of satisfactory quality when
Mr B acquired it at the point of sale. If I wasnt then I might find it is fair and reasonable for
him to reject it.
Where a new car is supplied the expectation is that the car is free from even minor defects. 
But with used cars, the car will show some signs of wear and tear and this is reflected in the 
price paid for the car. When considering whether the car was of satisfactory quality I must 
identify if the problem with the car was present at the point of sale and was caused due to an 
inherent defect rather than wear and tear. When Mr B acquired the car, it was around five 
years old and had travelled approximately 86,000 miles. So, I would expect it to have some 
wear and tear.
In this complaint I am not dealing with issues related to the exhaust problems Mr B 
experienced with the car shortly after he acquired it. This was dealt with in his first complaint 
in 2018. But I will be referring to an independent inspection and repairs that were carried out 
at that time. 
Mr B experienced further problems with the vehicle sometime after the repair was carried 
out. These include the car breaking down, failing to start, oil in the coolant, and a seized 
engine. He also said he has to continually top up the coolant. 
In the first independent inspection, on 17 April 2018, about three weeks after Mr B acquired 
the car, the inspector concluded:
The vehicle would not start, displayed coolant loss and possibly a cylinder 
head gasket concern.
The vehicle displayed possible cylinder head gasket concern, loss of coolant and 
loss of engine compression and as such we anticipate the cylinder head would 
require removal for further inspection, along with further coolant testing and 
replacement of the cooling system as required.
We can conclude various faults were identified at the time of inspection. We 
consider the faults identified on the balance of probability would have been 
developing at the point of sale and as such would be considered the 
responsibility of the selling agent.
There is no job card available for the repairs carried out following this inspection. I note in Mr 
Bs first complaint notes that evidence of specifically what repairs were carried out was 
requested by Mr B. BMF also requested confirmation from the selling dealer that all repairs 
had been carried out as per the inspection report. But there is no evidence this confirmation was sent or received. The only mention of repairs is in a BMF system note in September 
2019  old file suggests a head gasket repair but no job cards.
The vehicle was inspected again, at BMFs request, in March 2020. The main findings 
included:
The engine appears seized however the reason cannot be ascertained without 
further investigation  its likely that the engine suffered from seizures result of being 
driven in an overheated condition i.e. the vehicle running at an overheated condition 
over pressurising the coolant system.
There is evidence of a coolant leak and significant oil leaks and the current engine oil 
level is very low, which if prolonged could cause the engine to seize. 
The oil contamination to the engine coolant does suggest a potential head or head 
gasket breaching. There are a number of reasons why the cylinder head gasket has 
become breached which the inspector listed. 
It is unlikely that a poor head gasket repair would last for approximately 10,000 miles 
due to the pressures and temperature changes involved. If cylinder head gasket 
replacement had not been successful, the vehicle would not have driven 10,000 
miles and its reasonable the current issue is not associated with the previous repair. 
The driver indicated he had been topping up the engine coolant for a prolonged 
period which would suggest the vehicle has coolant leak somewhere. Running a 
vehicle with insufficient coolant in the system can result in thermal stressing of the 
engine and ultimately causes secondary breach to the cylinder head gasket. 
Taking into account the fact the vehicle has covered some 10,000 miles, its overall 
physical condition and the time elapsed lead the inspector to the conclusion the 
vehicle was fit for its intended purpose and of satisfactory quality at point of sale, with 
the current symptoms in his opinion being caused/induced by thermal stressing as a 
result of vehicle having driven with insufficient coolant in the system.
 
This would suggest that the coolant leaks over the system, however the system 
couldnt be tested as the vehicle was not running. 
Finally, the fact that the vehicle has cross contamination in the cooling system also 
leads us to conclusion the vehicle has been driven on in a distressed condition i.e. 
first contamination would reduce the coolant flow around the engine as a result of 
emulsification the coolant system which could have exacerbated the thermal 
stressing to the engine.
Where evidence is missing, unclear or disputed, as is the case here, I must make a decision 
based on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I believe is most likely to have happened. 
We know that a repair was carried out as Mr B was able to use his car. From the evidence 
provided it seems likely that the repair was to the head gasket, as this is whats noted by 
BMF. But there is no evidence that other repairs were carried out, specifically relating to the 
cooling system.  And evidence and testimony indicate there was contamination in the 
coolant and it was leaking and this has carried on. The second inspector indicated that 
insufficient coolant in the system would cause a secondary breach to the cylinder head gasket. Mr B has said hes had to keep topping up the coolant and its possible he hasnt 
been able to keep completely on top of this. 
Nevertheless, I am persuaded that there is a reasonable link between the coolant problems 
reported in the first inspection and those in the second. Im not disputing the technical 
evidence and expertise of the inspector, but I dont agree with the opinion that its 
reasonable to say the current issue is not associated with the repair, when we dont know 
exactly what was repaired. And I find it unlikely the cooling system was tested and replaced, 
as per the requirements of the first inspection, sufficiently to prevent further problems. 
BMF said it is unfair that it should be held liable for the consequences of Mr B driving over 
10,000 miles without having the cooling system tested, given he was having to top it up so 
often. While I accept it would have been prudent for Mr B to have had this looked at sooner 
himself, Im persuaded BMF were given the opportunity to investigate and fix it within weeks 
of Mr B having the car and it has not provided evidence this repair happened.  
BMF has said the car passed a MOT in 2019 and a slight oil leak was noted as an advisory. 
It said this is another factor which could have caused damage to the vehicle. It said if the 
customer had continued to drive the vehicle with a known fault it should not be held 
responsible. The MOT is a legal test of road safety and environmental emissions. It does not 
cover the condition of the engine. 
As the engine has seized and requires dismantling to effectively diagnose the problems, I 
must decide based on the available evidence. Im persuaded the problem relating to the 
cooling system was likely not investigated as a stand-alone problem or in relation to the 
head gasket in 2018. And I think it quite possible the problem has continued and caused 
further or indeed repeated engine issues leading to it seizing up. The inspector at the time 
noted this would be the responsibility of the selling dealer, rather than as a result of wear 
and tear. So, Im persuaded Mr B should be allowed to reject the car. 
Putting things right
 In order to put things right BMF should: 
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr B  
both at no cost to him. 
2. Refund to Mr B the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since 
September 2019.
3. Refund Mr Bs deposit.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Pay £200 to Mr B to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance Ltd to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Blue Motor Finance Ltd must give Mr B a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd must put things right 
as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman