DRN-1752888
 
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund her for a failed ATM cash 
withdrawal.
What happened
Whilst on holiday in Turkey, Miss H tried to withdraw £200 cash from an ATM but the 
machine didnt dispense the cash. Miss H decided to use another machine and withdrew 
£168.00 instead. The next day, she received a text message from Monzo Bank, telling her 
that the £200 had debited her account.
She contacted Monzo Bank immediately to report the error. 
She explained there was a queue in front of her at the ATM but that two or three people had 
left without any money. She said the customer in front spoke to her before leaving, but she 
didnt understand. She suspected that there could be a problem with the ATM, but she didnt 
notice anything unusual with it and used it anyway.
She said after selecting the cash option, the machine made a clicking noise and then 
dispensed her card. But the flap, where the cash is dispensed, didnt open. She turned to the 
person behind and told them there was no cash. She went to use another ATM.
Monzo Bank raised a chargeback with the ATM provider and gave her a temporary refund. 
However, it subsequently informed her it would be re-debiting her account, after the ATM 
provider sent evidence showing that the machine had dispensed the cash.
Miss H wasnt happy with this outcome, so she brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided to uphold it. He concluded that Monzo 
Bank hadnt done enough to show there were no mechanical faults or fraud devices attached 
to the machine. 
Monzo Bank disagreed with the investigators view.
It said the journal roll clearly indicates that the ATM was in working order. It shows that the 
previous and subsequent transactions were completed as expected and that no errors took 
place. It said if any of the transactions werent completed, due to a fault on the machine, 
then the journal roll would have recorded the error. There were no errors recorded and the 
annotations on the journal roll state that the ATM was in balance. The annotations prove that 
an employee had checked the ATM manually.
However, Monzo Bank accepted it was possible that a cash trap had been fitted to the 
machine but said it wasnt responsible for the loss of money, if that had happened.
Monzo Bank asked for an ombudsmans final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that there are three possible scenarios to explain what happened:
Miss H received the cash
a cash trap or fraud device was fitted to the ATM or there was a mechanical fault, or
Miss H didnt wait long enough at the ATM, the cash was dispensed after she had left 
and a third party picked up the money.
I will dispense quickly with the third option. Theres no evidence this is what happened and 
according to Miss H she waited until after her card had been dispensed but, despite the 
sounds coming from the machine, the cash wasnt dispensed. So I dont think she left the 
ATM prematurely.
Miss H said she didnt receive the cash, so she went to another machine and withdrew a 
lesser amount. In fact, she had made two prior attempts at the second ATM to withdraw 
more than £200, but the transactions were declined because they exceeded the daily limit. 
The third attempt for  £168 was successful.
The journal roll from the first ATM shows that the £200 was dispensed. In fact, it tells us that 
the customer before her made a successful cash withdrawal. And it shows the 
denominations. The customer who followed her made a balance inquiry only.
I can also see Miss Hs transaction on the journal roll. It shows she refused a transaction fee. 
And it shows that the machine dispensed 10 x 20 Turkish Lira notes.
The ATM provider has made a handwritten note on the roll that there was no excessive 
amount in the ATM and it balanced.
Monzo Bank says this evidence shows the machine was working and that the cash was 
dispensed. It said if there had been any error with machine then this would have been 
recorded on the journal roll.
However, there are also gaps in the banks evidence and I have to weigh the totality of its 
evidence against what Miss H told us, and her subsequent actions.
The investigator asked Monzo Bank for the purge box report (where unused or damaged 
notes are returned); details of whether there were any reported errors with the ATM or other 
claims raised that day, and any other relevant information to demonstrate whether there was 
a technical fault or any other deficiency.
Monzo Bank advised the investigator to contact the ATM provider directly. Im afraid I do 
expect the bank to obtain this evidence or make reasonable endeavours to get it. But it didnt 
and so the evidence is incomplete.
I understand that any cash in the purge box would have been included in the balance. The 
ATM provider said the machine balanced that day. So arguably, the purge box report 
wouldnt add anything to what the ATM provider told Monzo Bank.
However, I do expect the bank to raise further questions of the ATM provider about the 
machine, especially as Miss H said other customers seemed to be experiencing problems 
with the machine. Also, Miss Hs behaviour was consistent with what she told the bank. By 
this, I mean she went immediately to another ATM to withdraw cash. And, as it seems she would have exceeded the daily limit with the second cash withdrawal, then I think its more 
likely that she didnt receive the cash at the first ATM. So Miss Hs version of events should 
have prompted more questions and I would have expected to see a log of any reported 
faults or complaints about the ATM.  
So although it is good evidence, the journal roll only tells part of the story. It cant tell us 
whether a device was fitted to the ATM or whether there was a mechanical fault. I appreciate 
Monzo Bank says its difficult to obtain the additional evidence where the ATM is located 
abroad. However, it is Miss Hs bank and has a responsibility to investigate her claim as fully 
as it can.
Based on the available evidence, I think its more likely than not, that Miss H didnt receive 
the cash.
Monzo Bank concedes that a cash trap might have been attached to the ATM, but says it 
isnt responsible for Miss Hs loss. I disagree. As a customer, she has used her card to 
withdraw cash, but she didnt receive the cash. This would be a breach of the terms and 
conditions of her account and of any expectations a customer would have of their bank. 
 
 
Putting things right
I understand that Monzo Bank hasnt re-debited Miss Hs account. So in these 
circumstances, I consider it fair and reasonable that it should take no further action and 
leave the £200 in her account.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding this complaint and I am asking Monzo Bank Ltd to 
take no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman