DRN-3970113
The complaint
Ms C complains that Starling Bank Limited did not do enough to help her after she fell victim 
to a scam. 
What happened
In November 2021, Ms C fell victim to a bank impersonation scam and lost over £42,000. 
She sent money from her Starling account and from her account held with another bank. 
The other bank refunded all the money Ms C sent from that account within seven days. But 
Starling did not agree to refund Ms Cs loss. Starling was only able to recover a total of 
£255.14 from the bank Ms C paid, leaving her over £14,000 out of pocket. 
In the initial aftermath of the scam, Ms C had no choice but to borrow money from family and 
friends to pay her bills and due expenses that she could no longer cover. Shes explained 
that losing the money caused a significant amount of worry as it was meant to pay builders 
for ongoing renovation work. Shes highlighted that Starling didnt respond to requests for 
short term financial help and didnt provide any support to enable her to meet essential day 
to day living costs. 
Ms C made a complaint about Starlings decision. She pointed out that Starling is a signatory 
to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (The CRM Code) and had seen the same 
facts as her other bank, so it could not be right that Starling had reached a different 
conclusion when applying the same principles.
Starling issued its final response in December 2021. It said it had sufficient fraud protection 
measures in place and in this case, Ms C did not conduct enough checks to verify the 
information she was being told before sending the money. It agreed that it should have done 
more when Ms C asked for support but didnt say what it could have done or how it could 
have helped. 
Ms C did not accept the banks position and asked for the complaint to be considered by this 
service. When Starling provided its complaint papers, it explained that it had since re-
assessed Ms Cs claim and had refunded the remainder of her loss on 17 February 2022. 
Our Investigator contacted Ms C to discuss the developments in the case. Ms C confirmed 
she wished to continue with the complaint. She pointed out that Starling did not uphold its 
duties under the CRM Code and did not accurately review the information shed provided 
about what happened. 
She said Starling did not have any different information when it assessed things again so felt 
the decision to decline the claim initially was either an internal oversight or a deliberate 
attempt to avoid refunding the money. She explained it had taken a significant amount of 
time away from work to compile the information to make her claim to Starling which had an 
impact on her financially as she is self-employed. She explained she dealt with at least six 
different members of staff across a number of chat threads and was not convinced the bank 
had read the information shed provided fully. She describes the customer service she 
received as chaotic and was concerned that other customers that didnt have the time, 
ability or knowledge to go through this process were losing out. 
Our Investigator considered these points and agreed Starling should have taken more care 
when reviewing the details of the claim, highlighting that Ms C had provided substantial 
documentation explaining things right at the outset. He thought the financial difficulties Ms C 
had described would have been relieved sooner if Starling had refunded her initially as he 
thought it ought to have done. He didnt think what Starling had done since went far enough 
to put things right. He said that Starling should have paid 8% simple interest on the £14,450 
Ms C sent from 22 November 2021 until the settlement date because it did not do enough to 
challenge the out of character payments she was making. He was persuaded that 
appropriate intervention at the time would have uncovered the scam and stopped her from 
sending any more money. He also recommended that Starling should pay £300 
compensation for its errors and handling of the investigation. 
Starling agreed it would settle the case in line with these recommendations. Ms C didnt 
agree the proposals went far enough. She said the compensation didnt seem proportionate 
to the points of failed customer service. She thought the compensation should reflect the 
damages caused. She explained how stressful it was not having the money needed to fund 
imminent expenses and highlighted her loss of earnings whilst compiling the case. She said 
that if the bank had acted appropriately as soon as the incident began, she would not have 
needed to spend hours pursuing the matter. She suggested that a figure of at least £2,000 
would be a fairer reflection of the financial impact this matter has had. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than has been provided and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think is 
now at the heart of the matter here, which is deciding whether the recommendations our 
Investigator proposed go far enough to put things right.
In this case, theres no debate that Starling made a mistake. It misunderstood the facts when 
it assessed Ms Cs claim, reaching the wrong outcome as a result and delaying the time 
taken for her to receive redress due. But Ive not seen anything that makes me think this was 
a deliberate ploy from Starling to avoid paying the redress, I think it is more likely than not 
that its staff member became confused because of the involvement of two different banks in 
the scam and transposed details. Although Starling has since mitigated some of Ms Cs 
financial loss by refunding the funds that were lost in full, Ive thought about how the banks 
handling affected her financially, practically and emotionally.
Ms C has explained she incurred indirect costs and losses, highlighting specifically her loss 
of earnings caused as a direct result of taking time away from work to try and deal with 
matters. Our service wouldnt usually look to award compensation specifically for someones time or 
calculate it based on a daily occupational rate because one persons time isnt worth more 
than anothers. And Im also mindful that lost income would not have been reasonably 
foreseeable to Starling when Ms C was scammed. Im not persuaded that it ought to have 
predicted Ms C would have to take time away from work as a direct result of the fraud. So, 
I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Starling to compensate her for the loss in income. 
But I have thought about the additional inconvenience Ms C experienced because of 
spending time dealing with this matter. 
Assessing compensation for non-financial losses like distress, inconvenience, and pain and 
suffering isnt an exact science. Theres no set award or formula to decide the level of 
compensation which would be appropriate. But when considering an award in respect of the 
impact on Ms C, I need to carefully consider the impact of Starlings actions or inactions, not 
those of the other parties involved here. Most significantly, this means attempting to discount 
the actions of the fraudster, who was ultimately the party who perpetrated this fraud on Ms C 
and, as such, was the direct cause of her losses and the subsequent impact. 
If Starling had acted as I think it should have done, I agree the impact on Ms C would have 
been lessened. Ms C had never been in this situation before. It was an overwhelming time 
and Starling was not empathetic to the worries and concerns she had in the immediate 
aftermath of the scam. But I do not consider the bulk of the impact caused by the fraudsters 
deception and the impact of the scam itself would have been prevented or nullified. It would 
be disproportionate for me to attribute that impact to Starling solely  even on the basis that 
it is the only party I am potentially able to hold to account. 
Its disappointing that Starling made a mistake when it first considered Ms Cs claim. I can 
appreciate Ms Cs concern that other Starling customers may have been caused detriment 
by having claims turned down incorrectly. But Im not a regulator and I have no power to fine 
or punish Starling for its conduct. In my role, I can only consider whether Starling has treated 
Ms C fairly and reasonably.
There is no doubt that Starlings actions at an already difficult time amplified the impact of 
the loss of the money and made a bad situation worse. Although the prompt action from 
Ms Cs other bank would have most likely eased the financial burden on her to some extent, 
she was still without a significant amount of money for around three months, which would not 
have been easy. It is appropriate for Starling to compensate Ms C for being deprived of 
those funds because she was out of pocket and did not have the money available to use. 
Our Investigator recommended that Starling should pay 8% simple interest on the money 
from when the first payment was rejected until the date it paid the settlement. Starling 
agreed that it would be willing to do this and I think that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances here.
I am sorry to read about what happened to Ms C. Ive thought very carefully about everything 
shes said about how this experience has been for her. Theres no doubt that Ms C has been 
through a very stressful and upsetting time and that the way Starling handled this matter has 
compounded those difficulties. But taking everything into account, and thinking about the 
share of the impact reasonably attributable to Starling here, I consider an award of £300 is a 
fair and reasonable way for the bank to recognise that its actions have caused Ms C to suffer 
some distress and inconvenience that could have otherwise been avoided. 
Putting things right
If it has not already done so, Starling Bank Limited should now pay:
8% simple interest on the £14,450 from 22 November 2021 to the date of settlement which was 17 February 2022  
£300 compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience that Ms C was 
caused  
My final decision
My final decision is that Starling Bank Limited should now pay the compensation Ive 
outlined above if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman