DRN-1917235
The complaint
Miss J is unappy that Aviva Life and Pensions Limited (Aviva) disclosed private and sensitive 
information relating to the policy that was held in trust for her, to a third party. Aviva have 
made an offer of compensation that she is not happy with.
 
What happened
Miss Js partner had a policy in place with Aviva, for which Miss J was the trustee.
I am sorry to say that Miss Js partner passed away. Shortly after that, a relation of Miss Js 
partner contacted Aviva. It accepted notification of the death from this party and sent them 
claim forms for the policy. Something that Aviva subsequently acknowledged it shouldnt 
have done. When Miss J found out and complained about this, Aviva offered her £300 for 
trouble and upset it had caused. 
However, a few months later the third party contacted Aviva again, looking for a settlement 
form for the policy. Despite recognising that it couldnt give this information to anyone other 
than Miss J, the settlement value of the policy was still given to the third party over the 
phone.
Miss J complained to Aviva. She said that the incidents had caused her considerable 
distress and that disclosing the settlement value she received, might have financial 
implications for her. Aviva upheld Miss Js complaint and offered her a further £700 for the 
upset that the second breach had. Miss J remained unhappy and so she came to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought the offer Aviva had made to settle the 
complaint was fair, so he didnt suggest anything more should be done. He said that he was 
not looking at the legal entitlement to any settlement amount and that there was no 
complaint that the business hadnt settled correctly. He said that the total amount offered 
was fair. 
Miss J disagrees. She says that the offer did not properly reflect the stress caused and that 
the third party might argue a legal claim to the amount, which they might not have done had 
they not known the settlement figure. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
I would like to express my sympathy to Miss J for her loss. My role, however, is to give an 
impartial view on this complaint. I must therefore tell Miss J that Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and so wont be asking Aviva to do more to resolve this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
There is no argument here that Aviva has paid out the settlement of this policy as it should 
have. It has also acknowledged that both of the breaches complained about were errors. So, 
what I have to look at, is whether the amount offered by Aviva has truly recognised the 
trouble and upset that these breaches has caused Miss J. 
Miss J has suggested that disclosing settlement information to a third party may have 
financial implications, as they could legitimise a claim to at least some of the amount. This 
isnt something I can comment on further. It therefore follows that I cant ask Aviva to 
compensate Miss J for a claim being made in relation to her late partners policy. Also its 
important to point out here that Miss J hasnt provided information on whether such a claim 
is in the process of being made or not. So again it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make an 
award in relation to something that hasnt happened yet. 
However, there is no doubt that Aviva has made some serious errors and I hope Aviva puts 
measures in place to ensure this doesnt happen again to any of its customers. Breach of 
such data and information must be taken seriously. However, as I have already stated my 
role in the specifics of this complaint is to decide whether the compensation for the errors 
Aviva has made is sufficient and fully representative of the impact upon Miss J.
I appreciate the stress that these errors would have caused, in already difficult 
circumstances. This will have been made worse by a second error being a few months after 
the first. However, I think that the offer made is fair. As already stated no claim seems to 
have been embarked upon so the impact of the errors is the breach of the information. And 
the total amount of £1,000 is in my view sufficient in this situation. I therefore wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything more. 
I know Miss J will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve this dispute with Aviva  can do for her.
My final decision
Aviva has already made an offer to pay Miss J a total of £1,000 to settle this complaint, and I 
think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Aviva 
Life & Pensions Limited should pay Miss J £1,000, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman