DRN-2876161
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs L says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. I say this because to get the cover, Mrs L had to tick a box for it on the application 
form for the store card. The box is ticked and Mrs L has signed for the credit which 
denotes her agreement to the forms contents. So, if Mrs L had only wanted the credit, 
she could have left the PPI section blank. Mrs L has told us that she didnt make that 
tick. I must give some thought to the way the passage of time can affect the accuracy of 
recall from events that happened over 24 years ago. Where there is limited information, 
Ill make my decision based on what I think more likely happened, taking into account the 
evidence available, what both parties have told me and what we know about these types 
of sale. Judging these events 24 years after the sale, I have seen insufficient evidence to 
make me find that this version of events is more likely than that offered by AXA.  
AXA told us the policy would have been sold without advice. So, it didnt have to check 
that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs L enough clear and 
timely information so she could decide for herself it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs L. Mrs L told us she 
had some sick pay she could have relied on but that it only lasted for four weeks at her 
full rate of pay. The PPI could have paid out in addition to Mrs Ls sick pay and for longer 
than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay. And Mrs L told us she had 
no savings and no other insurance she could use to make her repayments in the event of 
long-term ill health, or if she lost her job, such that she may have had to rely on her 
husband for financial help in making her payments. Although Mrs L says she had a 
medical condition the year before the policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about the existing medical condition exclusion wouldve caused her to 
change her mind about taking out the policy. I say this because Mrs Ls condition was 
treated with an operation and she told us it caused her no further time off work. Mrs L 
has provided no detailed testimony about the condition and theres no testimony that it 
had caused her ongoing issues or any time off work after the treatment in the intervening 
year before the sale, such that she may have thought this to be the main reason she 
might need to be off work. It also looks like the cover was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs L would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs L would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party and not AXA. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman