DRN-3368401
Complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. He says he wasnt party to any fraud and he wants the marker removed.
Background
In October 2020, Mr Js Metro account received a transfer of £1,645.46 from a third-party. As 
the name for the intended recipient didnt match Mr Js some of the funds were restricted 
and the account was also blocked. Mr J made a number of calls to find out how to get the 
block on his account removed. But in January 2021, Metro received a notification from the 
bank which sent the payment that the payer had reported being scammed into making the 
payment. Metro reviewed Mr Js account, decided to close it and also record a fraud 
prevention marker against Mr J.
Mr J was unhappy with Metros actions and made a complaint. Metro looked at Mr Js 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr J remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js concerns. He didnt think that Metro had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr J unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Metro has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr J is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Metro must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Mr Js account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Metro also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr J was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr J allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Js complaint, I need to decide whether I think Metro had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Js account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Metro has done this here. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Metro initially placed a restriction on some of the funds which entered Mr Js account (as well 
as an account block) on 2 October 2020, because the name recorded for the intended payee 
didnt match with Mr J. After Mr J called to request a new Personal Identification Number, 
Metros representative informed Mr J that his account had been blocked because the name 
of the intended recipient for the payment received in his account on 2 October 2020 didnt 
match his. 
By this stage attempts had already been made to transfer all of the funds out of Mr Js 
account using three separate transfers. Two of them (for £700 and £900) were to the same 
party and one much smaller payment (for £20) was to another one. The first of the transfers 
was successful but the second and third ones were reversed because of Metros suspicions.
Mr J told Metro that the payment into his account was from a friend who may have entered 
an incorrect name as the intended payee. Mr J was asked to visit a branch and provide 
evidence to confirm that this was a payment intended for him and which he was entitled to 
receive. Mr J made a further two phone calls to Metro and was again told what he needed to 
provide. However, Mr J did not provide this information.
Subsequent to this on, 5 January 2021, Metro received a notification from the bank which 
sent the funds on 2 October 2020. This notification said that the sending customer had 
reported being scammed into making the payment. So not only was Mr J unable to evidence 
he was the legitimate recipient of the funds in question (despite not being able to evidence 
this was the case and having been given ample opportunity to do so), Metro also received 
confirmation that the payer of the funds believed themselves to have been a victim of a 
scam.
Its also worth noting that when Mr J referred his complaint to us, he told us the payments 
were for phones hed sold and it wasnt his fault that the buyer had used fraudulent funds.  
Mr J was asked to provide evidence of having sold two phones as well as evidence of them 
being sent to the buyer. But Mr J was unable to provide any evidence to corroborate the 
version of events that he brought to us. And he wasnt able to explain who the transfers on   
2 October 2020 were made to, or what they were for either. 
After our adjudicator issued his first assessment, where he didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld, Mr J initially said that the reason for the difference in his versions of 
events was because he panicked when he spoke to Metro and because he didnt understand 
the implications of a fraud marker. However, its difficult for me to accept this is the case 
given he made three separate calls to Metro repeating this claim in varying degrees. And not 
knowing about the implications of a fraud marker doesnt explain why Mr J initially said the 
funds were legitimately his either.
Furthermore, when our adjudicator reiterated his view that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld, Mr J then said he hadnt sold any phones and that he had no knowledge of where 
the funds came from. But he said the funds were his as he was in serious debt at the time and he wanted to keep them. He also said that its obvious to see that he wasnt the person 
that credited the funds to his account.
Ive thought about what Mr J now says. But, in truth, given the wildly inconsistent versions of 
events hes provided throughout the course of the investigation, its difficult to place much 
weight at all on what Mr J is now saying. Id also add that theres no dispute Mr J didnt make 
the credits to his account. And even what he now says happened (him attempting to keep 
the money because of his indebtedness) doesnt seem plausible given there were attempts 
to transfer all of the funds to two other accounts (which dont appear to be in his name), 
almost immediately. So I cant see how this would have led to him alleviating the serious 
debt problems he said he had at the time. 
Furthermore, Im also aware that Mr J now also says he doesnt know if someone had his 
account log in and hacked him. But given the lack of any sort of credible or plausible account 
of how his details and credentials could have been compromised, I simply dont find this to 
be persuasive.  
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Mero did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Js account. And Mr Js actions also 
suggest that it is more likely than not that he was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont 
think that it was unfair for Metro to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances 
that it did. And Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr J  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman