DRN-3121749
The complaint
Mr O and Mr P complain because AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid a claim under their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O and Mr P held an annual Premier Backpacker travel insurance policy, provided by
AXA.
Mr O and Mr P were abroad when, unfortunately, they had to cut their trip short because of
the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Mr O and Mr P paid for flights back to the UK and made a claim under their policy with AXA
for these costs. They also made a claim for emergency accommodation theyd had to
arrange abroad.
AXA said Mr O and Mr Ps claim wasnt covered under their policy because they didnt have
a pre-booked flight arranged back to the UK. Unhappy, Mr O and Mr P complained to AXA
before bringing their complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt think AXA had acted
unfairly by declining Mr O and Mr Ps claim. Mr O and Mr P didnt agree with our
investigators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. 
I made my provisional decision about Mr O and Mr Ps complaint earlier this month. In it, I 
said:
I should explain that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt to protect
consumers, nor is it to support financial businesses. We reach impartial and independent
outcomes, taking into account the information provided and arguments made by both parties
to a complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr O and
Mr Ps complaint.
AXA and our investigator said Mr O and Mr Ps claim for their additional flight costs wasnt
covered under the terms and conditions of their policy because of an exclusion relating to
unused original tickets. I dont agree. This exclusion refers to unused original tickets in the
event of repatriation due to medical necessity. Mr O and Mr P werent repatriated for medical
reasons, so I dont think this exclusion is relevant to their claim.
However, I dont think Mr O and Mr Ps claim for their flight costs is covered under their
policy for other reasons.
Section T (Uninhabitable Accommodation) of Mr O and Mr Ps policy sets out what costs
AXA is responsible for if a trip is curtailed (cut short) due to the outbreak of an infectious
disease or the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, subject to the other
provisions of the policy.
Section T says AXA will:
pay you up to the amount shown in the schedule of benefits for your proportion
only of any unused travel, accommodation and other pre-paid charges that you
cannot claim back from any other source together with any reasonable additional
traveland accommodation costs
So, AXA will pay for certain unused, as well as certain additional costs.
Mr O and Mr P didnt have any original return flights booked. So, they had no travel
expenses which were left unused. I also dont think they can fairly be said to have any
additional travel expenses in circumstances such as this where they had no original return
flight booked, because Mr O and Mr P would always had to have paid to return to the UK.
I understand Mr O and Mr P say they intended to travel on to another country after their
working visas expired and they never intended to return home. Ive also considered the
evidence Mr O and Mr P have provided which they say demonstrates they paid a
substantially inflated price for their return flights to the UK and theyd have paid a much
lower price for flights in previous years.
I accept that flight prices rose due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19 and Mr O and
Mr P may have been disadvantaged because of this. But the supply and demand for and
availability of flights isnt something which AXA has any control over, and any rising costs of
flights isnt something which insurance is designed to protect against.
I have no way of knowing when  or from what destination  Mr O and Mr P would eventually
have returned to the UK from had their plans not been disrupted. Because Mr O and Mr P
didnt have original return flights booked, they cannot demonstrate an actual financial loss
between the difference paid for original return flights and their new return flights. The loss
which Mr O and Mr P are claiming for is, instead, hypothetical, and this isnt something which
insurance is intended to cover. 
What Mr O and Mr P have said about open tickets not being unusual for backpackers
doesnt change my decision that this part of their claim isnt covered under their policy. While
open tickets may not be unusual, its also not unusual for travel insurance policies to
provide no cover in circumstances such as this, where a policyholder has no return ticket
booked.
Ive taken into account the information Mr O and Mr P have provided about British nationals
being advised to return to the UK. I dont dispute any of this, and Im not suggesting Mr O
and Mr P should have stayed abroad. But no insurance policy provides unlimited cover and
the fact that Mr O and Mr P followed guidance issued by the relevant authorities doesnt
automatically mean AXA is responsible for paying for their return flights.
Im sorry to hear Mr O has been through a difficult time and I understand the flights cost a
significant amount of money. I can understand his and Mr Ps strength of feeling about what
happened and Im sorry to disappoint them, but I dont think their claim for their flight costs is
covered under the terms and conditions of their policy. So, I dont think AXA has acted
unfairly or unreasonably by declining it.
I also have no doubt that Mr O and Mr Ps trip, which was supposed to be the experience ofa lifetime, was significantly disrupted. But compensation for loss of enjoyment isnt
something thats provided for under any travel insurance policy.
However, I note that neither AXA nor our investigator appears to have addressed the part of
Mr O and Mr Ps claim relating to their additional accommodation costs. It seems to me that
Section T (Uninhabitable Accommodation) of the policy provides cover for the scenario Mr O
and Mr P found themselves in. Section T says AXA will pay for additional accommodation
costs if the policyholder has to:
Move to other accommodation at any point during your trip as a result of an
infectious disease meaning you cannot use your booked accommodation.
So, I think AXA should pay this element of Mr O and Mr Ps claim.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr O and Mr P disagreed with my provisional 
decision. They made a number of comments, including reiterating that they had no intention 
of returning to the UK and that their policy covers repatriation. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all the comments Mr O and Mr P have made in response to my 
provisional findings, but I wont be changing my decision. 
I understand Mr O and Mr P say they had no intention of returning to the UK. I also 
understand Mr O and Mr P returned to the UK because of relevant government advice. But, 
as Ive already explained, this doesnt mean AXA is responsible for paying a claim if the 
circumstances arent covered under the terms and conditions of the policy Mr O and Mr P 
held. Mr O and Mr Ps policy only covers repatriation in the event of the policyholder 
suffering from a medical emergency, and that isnt what happened here.  
Ive taken into account the historical data referred to by Mr O and Mr P when considering 
their complaint and, as I explained in my provisional decision, I accept that flight prices 
increased. But, ultimately, as Mr O and Mr P had no return flight booked, they dont have 
what I consider to be a quantifiable, actual financial loss that is insured under their policy. 
Their claim for their flight costs simply isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their 
contract with AXA. 
However, I think AXA should pay for Mr O and Mr Ps additional accommodation costs.  
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to put things right by paying Mr O and Mr Ps claim for their 
additional accommodation costs, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc should add interest at 8% simple per annum to the claim payment 
from the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr O and Mr Ps complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc in part. I direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman