DRN-2993439
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NatWest Westminster Bank Plc failed to account for the full amount of 
cash she deposited with them.
What happened
Mrs B visited her branch of NatWest to deposit £1,000. At the time the bank had adopted 
different procedures due to the covid situation. This meant limiting access to customers 
inside the bank. NatWest had set up a system to deal with their customers outside the bank.
Mrs B had her own envelope with £1,000 in £50 notes. She counted the cash in front of the 
cashier, who then also counted it, put it into a Quick Deposit envelope and wrote £1,000 on 
the attached receipt, which was given to Mrs B. 
Mrs B then left the bank and returned home. Once at home she received a message from 
the bank stating that only £350 was contained in the envelope when they opened it in the 
branch to count it.
Mrs B contacted NatWest and was told that they would refund any lost money. Mrs B 
returned to the branch the next day and says she received poor customer service and was 
told that no additional funds had been found when the bank checked their tills.
Mrs B wanted the branch to check the external CCTV because it would show what 
happened. The CCTV wasnt reviewed because the cameras werent for that purpose and 
wouldnt help the situation.
NatWest checked their tills and apart from a very small (pence) difference, there was no 
extra cash that couldnt be accounted for. Internal CCTV of the opening of the envelopes 
was checked and it was seen that Mrs Bs envelope was opened inside the branch and the 
money counted. The CCTV then showed the money being returned to the envelope while 
the branch contacted Mrs B to tell her about the difference between the receipt on the 
outside of the envelope and the money contained within it.
NatWest said that their employee wouldnt have counted the money outside the branch as 
thats not their policy. They also said that it was common practice for employees to write the 
amount on the receipt for the customer after been told what was being deposited without 
counting it. The count was performed inside the branch, on this occasion, by a different staff 
member.
When the employee was spoken to about the deposit, she said she saw additional notes in 
the envelope Mrs B had brought the cash in when she was dealing with the deposit.
Mrs B complained to the bank who declined to refund the money Mrs B says was in the 
envelope.
Mrs B then brought her complaint to our service for an independent review and it was looked 
into by our investigator.
They thought that whilst there was a difference in what each party had said, it was, on 
balance, more than likely that only £350 had been inside the envelope when it was sealed 
outside the bank and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the outcome and 
asked for a further review of the complaint.
Its been passed to me for a final decision
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, as it is in this case, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  
in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence.
During the pandemic, a lot of businesses had to adapt their procedures, as NatWest did in 
this case. The circumstances of this complaint start when Mrs B was met outside the branch 
and had to deposit her money using a Quick Deposit envelope, which was then taken into 
the bank and counted.
Mrs Bs recollection is that her deposit of £1,000 was counted twice outside the bank, once 
by her and once by the cashier before it was put into the envelope. A receipt was then given 
to Mrs B, written by the cashier.
NatWest have said this wasnt the case and that the money wasnt counted outside by the 
cashier. The receipt was written by the cashier based on what she was told was in the 
envelope by Mrs B whod put the cash into the envelope herself. Clearly theres a difference 
in the version of events and theres no independent evidence to clarify what happened 
outside the bank.
So, Ive looked at the likely version of events here. The procedure adopted by NatWest using 
the Quick Deposit envelopes is a system thats usually used by business customers to 
deposit funds before theyre checked later by bank employees. It appears it was being used 
here during the pandemic to reduce contact with customers. The envelopes have an 
attached receipt that would usually be self-certified by the person depositing them. The 
envelopes would then be opened and checked before crediting the appropriate accounts.
The system relies on the user to put the correct money into the envelope and write the 
correct amount on the receipt before its checked and because of that its open to error 
before the bank checks the contents. In this case Mrs B said the money was counted by the 
cashier after shed done the same  but this seems to defeat the object of the system to 
reduce contact with customers. It also increases the likelihood of money being stolen as its 
counted outside the bank in a non-secure area, something I would think the bank was keen 
to avoid.
I dont think that NatWest would adopt a system that unnecessarily puts their staff and 
customers at risk of robbery or extends the time their staff had to interact with each customer 
due to the pandemic. Ive also taken into account the comment from the cashier that she 
saw additional notes in the envelope that Mrs B brought with her. So, I think its more than likely the money wasnt counted by the cashier outside the bank and that the £1,000 written 
on the receipt was what Mrs B thought shed put in it. 
Once the envelope was taken into the bank, it was dealt with by a different cashier who 
opened it and counted £350, this was then put back into the envelope whilst the discrepancy 
was raised with Mrs B. £350 was eventually credited to her account. The opening and count 
were covered by internal CCTV which is no longer available, but NatWest records at the time 
of the incident confirm the CCTV was reviewed and Ive no reason to think this was 
incorrect.
Ive reviewed the branch records which show there was no significant discrepancy in the tills 
at the end of the day. NatWest also checked all the other Quick Deposit envelopes for that 
day to make sure that the missing money wasnt in a different envelope, which it wasnt.
I realise Mrs B will probably disagree with my decision, but my conclusions are based on the 
available evidence, which lead me to an objective conclusion about what happened at the 
branch. Taking all these factors into account, I think its more than likely that only £350 was 
put into the envelope by Mrs B. As her account was credited with £350 I wont be telling 
NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint and National Westminster Bank 
Plc dont need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman