DRN-2194767
The complaint
Miss O complained about five debits from her accounts with Santander UK Plc, which she 
said she didnt make.
Miss O wants a refund of  £320 back into her account, and an apology from Santander for 
inappropriate handling of her case and for psychological trauma.
What happened
On 8 November 2019 there were five transactions on Miss Os Santander accounts:
Time Location Type of transaction Amount £
14:55 Online banking Transfer from Miss Os 
savings account to her 
current account80
15:11 Telephone banking New payee set up, and 
payment to new payee120
15:59 Online banking Payment to new payee 90
16:00 Online banking Payment to new payee 90
16:00 Online banking Payment to new payee 20
On 11 December, Miss O rang Santander and said she hadnt made any of these 
transactions. Santander investigated Miss Os claim, and also contacted the bank for the 
new payee, to say that Miss O had reported that she hadnt authorised the transactions. The 
other bank replied that there were no funds left in the account to which the payments had 
been made.
Santander refused Miss Os claim and she complained. Santanders final response to Miss 
O said that the online banking transactions had been carried out from the IP address 
normally used by Miss O, and that the person setting up the new payee had sounded like 
Miss O, and had known Miss Os credentials and had passed security. Miss O had asked for 
the phone number which had been used to set up the new payee but Santander said it 
couldnt trace that.
Miss O also complained that Santanders fraud investigators had had a poor attitude, but 
Santander said they had acted professionally. It agreed that they had told Miss O that if she 
were to make another similar claim, the bank would consider removing Miss Os banking 
facilities.
Miss O wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said that:
- usually when setting up a new payee, she received a text, and hadnt had one for the 
disputed new payee;
- shed been busy on 8 December getting ready to fly abroad the next day;
- she hadnt used telephone banking before.
Miss O said she hadnt made any of the payments and she wanted a full refund, and an 
apology from Santander for inappropriate handling of her case and for the psychological 
trauma shed been subjected to.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Os complaint. She  noted that Miss O had said she 
hadnt let anyone else have her banking login details or security information. And Miss O had 
also said that she hadnt carried out the transactions after being instructed by any third party. 
Nor had she been tricked into making the payments as part of a scam.  The investigator said 
that two Santander staff had listen to the call to set up the new payee, and to a call from 
Miss O, and theyd both concluded it was the same person. Santander no longer had the 
calls so the investigator hadnt been able to listen herself, but she didnt think Santander 
would have reached the conclusion that it had been the same person on both calls, unless it 
had been sure.
The investigator couldnt see a point where Miss Os details could have been compromised. 
Personal banking information and security questions had been correctly used. So the 
investigator considered Miss O had authorised the transactions herself.
Miss O wasnt satisfied. She said the investigator was unfair and biased and had based the 
decision on assumptions. She said it had been a fraud and Santander had never told her 
that it had tried to get the money back from the other bank but hadnt been able to. Nor had 
Santander given her the phone number, time and location used to set up the disputed 
payment. She said she hadnt used telephone banking before, so there couldnt have been a 
previous voice of hers on Santanders archives. Miss O said that she hadnt authorised any 
of the payments, and Santander had failed to provide evidence that she had.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O has argued that Santander hasnt proved that she authorised the disputed 
transactions, so she should be refunded. But it doesnt work on the basis that any 
transactions Miss O disputes are refunded unless the bank provides cast-iron evidence that 
she made them. Instead, I take my decision on the basis of whats more likely than not to 
have happened, taking into account the facts we do have, and the law about payments.
The regulations relevant to Miss Os complaint are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Santander) must show the payment was 
authenticated. Authentication is the technical part. Santander has shown that:
- for the online transactions, the online banking passcode was used to authenticate the 
£80 account transfer, the two £90 payments to the new payee and the £20 payment 
to the new payee. An additional security check was also initiated and the extra 
security question was answered correctly;
- for the telephone transfer, three digits from Miss Os security password were 
requested and were correctly provided. Other security questions were also asked, 
about Miss Os personal details.
So I find that the evidence shows that all five disputed transactions were authenticated. The 
regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the account holder authorised the 
payments. So the next stage is for me to look at whether Miss O consented to and carried 
out the payments.Miss O confirmed that she didnt give her bank security details, passcodes and security 
questions to anyone else. And she also told our investigator that she didnt carry out the 
transactions having been told to by a third party. Nor was she tricked into carrying out the 
transactions as part of a scam. Miss O has said none of these apply, but she said she didnt 
carry out any of the five transactions herself. 
The key issue here is that all Miss Os correct security details were provided for all five 
transactions. This included a passcode, personal details, and a pre-set question. All were 
answered correctly. As Miss O says she didnt provide all these different pieces of 
information to someone else, I cant see how it can have been anyone else apart from Miss 
O who authorised the transactions. I also note that the online transactions were carried out 
from an internet IP address which had previously been used by Miss O. 
Ive considered Miss Os objections:
- It doesnt make any difference to my conclusions that Santander doesnt have the 
phone number which was used to set up the new payee over the phone. A phone 
number wouldnt prove whether it was or wasnt Miss O who made the call.
- Santander no longer has the call recording from when the new payee was set up. 
This means that I cant listen to it, and compare it with when Miss O complained to 
Santander, to decide whether I think its the same person on both calls. But its not 
surprising Santander no longer has the call, which was over a year ago. I accept 
Santanders statement that two separate staff listened to the payee call, and other 
calls from Miss O, and considered they were from the same person. Miss O has said 
Santander doesnt have an archive of her voice. But it did have the complaint call and 
could use that to compare the voices. But even without this, given the fact that all the 
security questions were correctly answered, I find its more likely than not that it was 
Miss O who made the call to set up the payee. It makes no difference that shes said 
she hadnt previously used telephone banking. 
- I understand that its Santanders practice to send a text for new payees where this is 
set up by online banking, but not for telephone banking.
- I dont consider that Miss O saying she was busy on 8 December because she was 
going away the next day, makes it any less likely that she authorised the payments 
herself. Each transaction would only have taken a few minutes  for example the last 
three were done in just a couple of minutes. And all five took place in only just over 
an hour.
Miss O hasnt suggested any explanations about how or why anyone else might have known 
all her personal, banking code, and security question information  all of which were 
correctly entered. And I can also see no reason why a fraudster should start the first of the 
five disputed transactions by transferring money from Miss Os savings account to Miss Os 
current account. That wouldnt benefit a fraudster and is most unlikely.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that Miss O authorised all five 
transactions herself. So shes liable for them, and I dont require Santander to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman