DRN-4210397
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express (Amex) deducted 20,000 membership reward points from her account.
What happened
On 4 November 2022, Miss F opened a credit card account with Amex. As part of the 
account opening terms there was a welcome offer that, if she spent £3,000 within the first 
three months, then she would receive a bonus of 30,000 reward points. Miss F spent this 
amount, and the reward points were added to her account on 27 December 2022.
Miss F says that she was then given another offer through Amexs app  spend another 
£3,000 and receive a bonus of 20,000 reward points. Miss F spent a further £3,000 and the 
20,000 bonus reward points were added on 27 January 2023. However, Amex deducted 
these 20,000 points in March 2023. Miss F wasnt happy with this and complained to Amex.
Amex said that the second offer had been made to a number of customers in error, and that 
it was never meant to be made available to Miss F. They apologised for this, and credited 
Miss Fs account with 10,000 reward points as a gesture of goodwill. Miss F didnt accept 
this as a resolution to her complaint and brought it to us for investigation.
Our investigator said our approach to complaints is that we try to put customers back in the 
position they wouldve been had no error been made. And, in this instance, the error was 
that Amex applied a bonus reward point scheme to Miss Fs account that she was never 
eligible for. As such, she should never have received the extra 20,000 reward points.
So, while the investigator accepted that Amex had provided Miss F with incorrect 
information, he didnt think that Miss F should be given the 20,000 reward points as she was 
never eligible to receive these. And he thought the 10,000 reward points theyd offered was 
fair in the circumstances. So, he didnt think Amex needed to do anything more.
Miss F didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the money she spent on her Amex 
card in order to qualify for the 20,000 bonus reward points would otherwise have been spent 
on other credit cards she had, and which had lower interest rates. So, shes asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute, and its agreed that Amex made a bonus 
reward point offer available to Miss F that she wasnt eligible for. And, while Miss F spent 
money on her Amex card, genuinely believing she was eligible for the bonus reward points, 
these points were added and then deducted from her account. As such, my decision will 
focus on what I think is a reasonable resolution to Miss Fs complaint.
As explained by the investigator, when something has gone wrong, we look to put the 
customer back into the position they wouldve been in had the error not happened. And we 
would also consider compensating the customer for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Had Miss F not been offered the chance to get a bonus 20,000 reward points, which is what 
shouldve happened, then she wouldve been left in a position where she could only earn the 
30,000 bonus points. As such, as Miss F should never have received the 20,000 bonus 
reward points, it wouldnt be fair to ask Amex to now give her these, as this would put her in 
a position of betterment.
However, I also need to consider Miss Fs comments that she may not have chosen to 
spend an additional £3,000 on her Amex card had she known she wasnt eligible for the 
20,000 reward point bonus. Based on what Ive seen, I understand Amex are offering one 
reward point for every £1 spent on the card. As such, by spending the £3,000 Miss F has 
said she would otherwise not have spent, shes received an additional 3,000 reward points.
Given the fact that Miss F spent the £3,000 with the express goal of gaining bonus reward 
points, and that she also received reward points for the spending, I cant say that she 
definitely wouldve spent this money on another card if she was only receiving the one point 
per £1 spent. And, if I could say that she definitely wouldve done this, and considered what 
is a fair and reasonable remedy, then its only fair that this remedy would include the removal 
of the 3,000 reward points Miss F gained from spending the money on her Amex card that 
she otherwise not have received. So, its for this reason I wont be asking Amex to 
compensate Miss F for the £3,000 she spent on her card in December 2022/January 2023.
But this is not to say that Miss F hasnt been inconvenienced by what has happened, and 
that this situation hasnt frustrated her. Amex have offered Miss F 10,000 reward points as 
compensation for this. While I would usually consider asking Amex to pay monetary 
compensation, Ive also considered that the reward points have their own monetary value, 
and Miss Fs complaint is about not receiving reward points. So, I think its fair to say that 
Miss Fs preferred resolution is reward points. As such, I wont be asking Amex to pay any 
monetary compensation to Miss F (for example the value of the reward points theyve 
offered) instead of the 10,000 reward points themselves.
Given the above, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss F, I wont 
be asking Amex to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint about American Express 
Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as American Express.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman