DRN-4238242
The complaint
Mr R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to a 
cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. Ive discussed the merits of 
the complaint and the outcome with Mr R and Monzo. Because of that I will summarise the 
circumstances of the case in brief.
Mr R found an advert for cryptocurrency investment on social media. He responded and was 
soon contacted by someone posing as an investment adviser but who was in fact a 
scammer.
Mr R was persuaded to invest and made multiple payments from a newly created Monzo 
account to a cryptocurrency wallet in his name. He sent the money from the wallet on to the 
scammer. The payments were sent from the end of June until the end of July 2022.   
Most payments went through without issue. There was an attempted payment of £12,000 on 
8 July 2022. It didnt go through as it was above the agreed payment limits on the account. 
This prompted contact between Mr R and Monzo. Mr R was told hed have to provide a selfie 
along with evidence of his intended investment if he wished to proceed with the payment. He 
didnt do so, instead reducing the payment amount to £10,000, which went through without 
further questioning.
When Mr R opened the account, he told Monzo he intended to use it for cryptocurrency 
trading. 
Mr R realised hed been scammed when the people he was in contact with kept demanding 
more and more money. They said it was required to release the substantial returns that Mr R 
had achieved. 
Monzo hasnt refunded Mr R as it believes it did enough to warn him about scams. And its 
said all the payments matched the intended purpose of the account, so there was nothing for 
it to be concerned about. It also feels Mr R didnt do enough due diligence to confirm the 
investment opportunity, and the parties involved, as legitimate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in the background section of this decision, Ive already discussed the 
circumstances and outcome of the complaint with both Mr R and Monzo. Im proceeding to 
issue this decision as an agreement still hasnt been reached. Some aspects of the case are 
no longer in dispute and so I wont comment on them in detail.
The starting point under the relevant regulations (in this case, the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017) and the terms of Mr Rs account is that Mr R is responsible for payments 
he authorised himself. And, as the Supreme Court has recently reiterated in Philipp v 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, banks generally have a contractual duty to make payments in 
compliance with the customers instructions.
In that case, the Supreme Court considered the nature and extent of the contractual duties 
owed by banks when making payments.  Among other things, it said, in summary:
The starting position is that it is an implied term of any current account contract that, 
where a customer has authorised and instructed a bank to make a payment, the 
bank must carry out the instruction promptly. It is not for the bank to concern itself 
with the wisdom or risk of its customers payment decisions. 
The express terms of the current account contract may modify or alter that position. 
For example, in Philipp, the contract permitted Barclays not to follow its consumers 
instructions where it reasonably believed the payment instruction was the result of 
APP fraud; but the court said having the right to decline to carry out an instruction 
was not the same as being under a duty to do so.   
In this case, Monzos December 2021 terms and conditions (applicable at the time of the 
payments) gave it rights (but not obligations) to:
Block payments if it suspects criminal activity on a customers account. It 
explains if it blocks a payment it will let its customer know as soon as possible, 
using one of its usual channels (via its app, email, phone or by post)
So, the starting position at law was that:
Monzo was under an implied duty at law to make payments promptly.
It had a contractual right not to make payments where it suspected criminal activity 
It could therefore block payments, or make enquiries, where it suspected criminal 
activity, but it was not under a contractual duty to do either of those things.
It is not clear from this set of terms and conditions whether suspecting a payment may relate 
to fraud (including authorised push payment fraud) is encompassed within Monzos definition 
of criminal activity. But in any event, whilst the current account terms did not oblige Monzo to 
make fraud checks, I do not consider any of these things (including the implied basic legal 
duty to make payments promptly) precluded Monzo from making fraud checks before 
making a payment.  
And, whilst Monzo was not required or obliged under the contract to make checks, I am 
satisfied that, taking into account longstanding regulatory expectations and requirements  
and what I consider to have been good practice at the time, it should fairly and reasonably 
have been on the look-out for the possibility of APP fraud and have taken additional steps, or 
made additional checks, before processing payments in some circumstances  as in practice 
all banks, including Monzo, do. 
I am mindful in reaching my conclusions about what Monzo ought fairly and reasonably to 
have done that:
FCA regulated banks are required to conduct their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its customers (Principle 6)1.  
Banks have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements 
and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm 
might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook, which has applied since 2001). 
Over the years, the FSA, and its successor the FCA, have published a series of 
publications setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor practice found 
when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime, including 
various iterations of the Financial crime: a guide for firms.2. 
Regulated banks are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money 
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. Those 
requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).
The October 2017, BSI Code, which a number of banks and trade associations were 
involved in the development of, recommended firms look to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  Not all firms signed the BSI Code, but in my 
view the standards and expectations it referred to represented a fair articulation of 
what was, in my opinion, already good industry practice in October 2017 particularly 
around fraud prevention, and it remains a starting point for what I consider to be the 
minimum standards of good industry practice now.    
Monzo has agreed to abide by the principles CRM Code.  This sets out both 
standards for firms and situations where signatory firms will reimburse consumers   
The CRM Code does not cover all authorised push payments (APP) in every 
circumstances (and it does not apply to the circumstances of this payment), but I 
consider the standards for firms around the identification of transactions presenting 
additional scam risks and the provision of effective warnings to consumers when that 
is the case, represent a fair articulation of what I consider to be good industry 
practice generally for payment service providers carrying out any APP transactions.  
1 Since 31 July 2023 under the FCAs new Consumer Duty package of measures, banks and other 
regulated firms must act to deliver good outcomes for customers (Principle 12), but the circumstances 
of this complaint pre-date the Consumer Duty and so it does not apply. 
2 For example, both the FSAs Financial Crime Guide at 4.2.5G and the FCAs 2015 Financial crime: a guide 
for firms gave examples of good practice in relation to investment fraud saying: 
A bank regularly assesses the risk to itself and its customers of losses from fraud, including investment fraud, 
in accordance with their established risk management framework. The risk assessment does not only cover 
situations where the bank could cover losses, but also where customers could lose and not be reimbursed by the 
bank. Resource allocation and mitigation measures are informed by this assessment. 
A bank contacts customers if it suspects a payment is being made to an investment fraudster. 
A bank has transaction monitoring rules designed to detect specific types of investment fraud. Investment fraud 
subject matter experts help set these rules.Overall, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, or provided additional warnings, before 
processing a payment  as in practice all banks do.
Have been mindful of  among other things  common scam scenarios, the evolving 
fraud landscape (including for example the use of multi-stage fraud by scammers) 
and the different risks these can present to consumers, when deciding whether to 
intervene.
Should Monzo have fairly and reasonably made further enquiries before it processed Mr Rs 
payments?
Im satisfied Monzo should have intervened and asked Mr R about the payments he was 
making. This should have happened on 8 July 2022. Ive explained my reasons to both 
parties already. They can be summarised as:
The payment of £10,000 marked a significant increase in spending on the account;
The sum is of such a large value that it inherently carries a high degree of risk in 
many circumstances;
Mr R had made no payments of a similar size previously;
Mr R had tried and failed to make a larger payment of £12,000 shortly before. Monzo 
knew he intended to make such a payment for investment purposes. It asked him to 
provide evidence of the intended investment and it received nothing from him. Monzo 
didnt consider that the payment was intended for a cryptocurrency platform when it 
spoke to Mr R and nor did it think about the associated risks;
Monzo ought to have been aware of the significant risks of cryptocurrency 
investment. Not just from a perspective of the unpredictability or volatility of such 
markets, but from the prevalence of cryptocurrency investment scams, which it ought 
to have been aware of at the time; and
the nature of the transactions made by Mr R  in terms of increasing value and 
frequency  bore the hallmarks of a cryptocurrency investment scam.  
In making these findings I have considered that Mr Rs account was fairly new at the point he 
made the £10,000 payment. That means there was limited account history for Monzo to 
assess. Ive also considered that the only activity on the account was incoming payments 
from Mr R and his wife, and outgoing payments to his cryptocurrency wallet. And Ive noted 
that Mr R told Monzo he was going to use the account for cryptocurrency trading. But with all 
of that in mind Im still persuaded there was enough going on to say Monzo ought fairly and 
reasonably to have identified the £10,000 as bearing a significant risk of financial harm and 
so intervened and questioned it.Had it done so Im satisfied the scam would have been revealed. Mr R had no cover story to 
give Monzo if challenged about the purpose of the payments. Some straightforward probing 
questions would more likely than not have revealed the detail about what Mr R was doing 
with the money and how he came by the investment advice. That detail ought then to have 
given Monzo significant cause for concern and to have led to strong warnings against 
proceeding, if not an outright refusal to process the payments (given it ought to have fairly 
and reasonably suspected the money was going to a fraudster). Theres nothing within the 
evidence that suggests to me Mr R would have ignored targeted and detailed warnings. Its 
then fair and reasonable to find any further loss could have been prevented. 
Monzo has said it gave Mr R scam warnings when he created the new payee instructions on 
31 May 2022. But the content of these warnings was limited and there was no reference to 
the type of scam Mr R was falling victim to. The details of cryptocurrency investment scams 
werent brought to life at all. And, importantly, there were no such warnings presented at the 
point the £10,000 payment was made. In any case, my findings are that a much greater 
degree of intervention than a generic written warning was needed here. The payment ought 
to have been paused or blocked, followed by some direct questioning of Mr R through one of 
Monzos agreed channels.
My findings here mean that Monzo can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for at least 
a portion of Mr Rs loss from 8 July 2022 onwards. But Mr Rs own actions must also be 
considered. 
Monzo has said that it doesnt think Mr R did enough to check the investment opportunity 
was legitimate and that he was dealing with genuine parties. I agree with what its said here, 
and Mr R has also accepted that position. That being the case I dont intend to go into further 
detail here. What it does mean is that its fair and reasonable that responsibility for the loss 
be shared between the two parties.
Putting things right
Upon Mr Rs acceptance Monzo should:
Refund 50% of Mr Rs loss from 8 July 2022 onwards, totaling £18,000.
Pay interest on that amount at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of each 
transaction to the date of settlement. In making this interest award I have considered 
the source of the funds lost. Those sources included Mr Rs other accounts and 
those held by his wife. There has been credit card borrowing and the cashing in of 
Mr Rs pension. Money was also borrowed from friends, which has been repaid. 
With all these different sources in mind, and the varied impact on Mr Rs finances 
more broadly, Im satisfied the pragmatic, fair and reasonable approach is to award 
the 8% simple interest on the total refund
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman