DRN-2256104
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
renewal for their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N received a renewal quote from Triton in January 2019, to renew their buildings 
and contents insurance policy. To ensure their policy remained in force, Mr and Mrs N paid 
the full premium before the renewal date. The amount paid was £438.33.
When their policy reached its renewal date in January 2020, Mr and Mrs N hadnt heard from 
Triton or received their renewal quote. Mrs N tried to contact Triton to find out why, but she 
was unable to get through to anyone. Because of this, Mrs N contacted the insurer shown on 
her policy documents. They told Mrs N that Triton hadnt renewed the policy in January 
2019. Nor had their renewal payment been passed onto the insurer.
Mr and Mrs N raised a complaint with Triton. Triton never responded so they brought their 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr and Mrs N. He asked Triton to refund the premium of £438.33, 
pay interest on that amount and pay Mr and Mrs N £100 compensation for the upset the 
matter had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr and Mrs N have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.
Mr and Mrs N paid Triton before their policy renewed in January 2019 to ensure their policy 
remained active. And, once they were aware that they didnt have any insurance cover in 
force, they made sure they sought cover with an alternative insurer.
Mr and Mrs Ns original insurer has confirmed to them that Triton never renewed their policy 
in January 2019 and didnt pass on any payments that had been made to them to renew it. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide     
Mr and Mrs N with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton didnt 
renew Mr and Mrs Ns insurance cover with the original insurer. Im also satisfied that Triton 
didnt pass on Mr and Mrs Ns payment to the insurer. It follows that they should have 
refunded the money Mr and Mrs N paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mr and Mrs N. Mrs N has 
also confirmed that she tried to speak to Triton several times, and she wasnt able to get 
through to anyone. None of her calls or emails were responded to. Because of this upset, its 
also reasonable for Triton to pay Mr and Mrs N £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly 
recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr and Mrs N their premium of £438.33;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs N 
paid for their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr and Mrs N £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs N how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr and Mrs N a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman