DRN-1596055
The complaint
Ms Y complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) incorrectly reported a second credit card on her 
credit file, preventing her from obtaining credit.  
What happened
In September 2019, Ms Y contacted HSBC to say two credit cards were showing on her 
credit file when she only held one with it. HSBC said this was due to a system error which 
meant the history on her old credit card account didnt merge onto the new one  meaning a 
second credit card was showing. 
Ms Y said she became aware of a possible issue when she was unsuccessful with credit 
applications. So, she checked her credit file and found the error. HSBC said as it couldnt 
merge the history from the old credit card account to the new one, it marked this as closed 
and settled. It said it also sent a message to the Credit Reference Agency to explain this. 
Ms Y said she didnt receive further contact from HSBC about a complaint following her 
reporting the issue in September 2019. She contacted it again in January 2020. HSBC didnt 
log a complaint but said itd taken the necessary action to correct the information on Ms Ys 
credit file. Ms Y said she was on the phone with it for over an hour whilst trying to resolve 
things. 
HSBC sent a final response letter to Ms Y in January 2020. It accepted itd made an error 
and paid Ms Y £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this and 
how it handled things. 
Ms Y didnt think this was enough. She said shed experienced difficulties when applying for 
credit and to increase her limits. She said HSBC should increase the amount of 
compensation to recognise this. As she remained unhappy, she brought a complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She said as HSBC accepted itd made 
an error, she went onto consider the impact on Ms Y and the steps it took to put things right. 
She was satisfied itd corrected Ms Ys credit file and felt the compensation amount was fair 
and reasonable in this case. She didnt think Ms Y had demonstrated shed been refused 
credit as a direct result of the second credit card being reported. So, she didnt think HSBC 
should increase the compensation amount.
Ms Y disagreed. She provided some further information from a credit provider which gave 
reasons as to why her application for credit was declined. She also said her online 
application to HSBC to increase her overdraft limit was declined due to its error. Ms Y 
remained of the view HSBC should increase its payment for compensation to reflect the 
impact the error had on her ability to apply for credit. 
As no agreement could be reached, this case was passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats not disputed here is HSBC incorrectly reported the second credit card on Ms Ys 
credit file. HSBC said it rectified the issue once Ms Y contacted it in September 2019. Ms Y's 
since said shes looked at her credit file and confirmed the error has now been amended. I 
think what HSBC did in amending the credit file once Ms Y notified it of the issue was the 
right thing to do. But it shouldve informed her of the action it took which I cant see it did. 
What remains in dispute here is the overall impact this had on Ms Y. So, Ive now gone onto consider this. And having done so, whilst I appreciate this will come to disappoint Ms Y, Im 
in agreement with the view our investigator reached for broadly similar reasons. Ill explain 
why. 
Ms Y said the error impacted her ability to get credit. Shes shown us she was refused credit 
in July 2019 from a different provider, but she hasnt shown in my view the second credit 
card being reported on her credit file with HSBC was the sole reason for that. For clarity, the 
application response letter declining credit states: 
When a customer applies to us for a credit card we gather information from a 
number of sources, including information from a Credit Reference Agency called 
[anonymised]. After reviewing the information they provided to us were unable to 
offer you a credit card at this time. 
I do accept that having this second credit card showing on her credit file is likely to have had 
an impact on her credit applications. But as above, I havent been persuaded Ms Ys 
application was declined solely on this factor alone based on the information I do have 
available to me. 
Ms Y also said her application to increase her overdraft limit was declined. HSBC said this 
was declined due to other factors and not due to the second credit card showing on her 
credit file. Ive also given this a lot of careful thought, but as above, I cannot safely say 
whether Ms Ys application wouldve been accepted had the second credit card not have 
appeared on her credit file based on what I have to me. 
It follows Ive not been persuaded on balance that Ms Ys been refused credit due to the 
error HSBC made alone. I do accept shes experienced a level of distress and 
inconvenience here by finding an error was made to her credit file, and the lack of 
communication from HSBC following it amending this. I also note Ms Y was on the phone for 
a lengthy period which wouldve been very frustrating.  But overall, having carefully 
considered all the issues in this case, I think £150 in turn provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. So, I dont require HSBC to do anything further here as £150 has 
already been received by Ms Y. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Ms Y, but my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve her dispute with HSBC  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman