DRN-3039675
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc wouldnt offer her a lower interest rate product, 
or capitalise the arrears on her mortgage account.
What happened
Mrs W has a repayment mortgage with BoS. In 2007, she took out a fixed rate of 6.09%
which ran until 31 January 2018. Unfortunately, during that 10-year period, Mrs W struggled
with financial difficulty due to a change in her circumstances, and an arrears balance
accrued on the account.
After the fixed rate ended in January 2018, Mrs W had several conversations with BoS about
her situation. She advised that she was a full-time carer, and so was making the monthly
payments through benefit payments and support from family. She was taking some part time
work where she could. She was prioritising the mortgage and made it clear she wanted to do
all she could to avoid any repossession action or the need to sell her property. Short term
arrangements were set throughout 2018, and whilst there were some periods where the
benefit payments were delayed, the contractual monthly payments (CMP) were being made
in most months, as well as contributions to the arrears.
Other options for the mortgage were explored such as a term extension, but BoS said that
as the term already ran past Mrs Ws expected retirement age then they wouldnt extend it
further. Mrs W was expecting to be able to clear the arrears within a couple of years using a
pension drawdown, so short term arrangements continued to be agreed.
Throughout 2019 and 2020 more short term arrangements were agreed, and several
conversations were had about Mrs Ws circumstances and the mortgage due to the arrears
that remained on the account. Mrs W asked about lower interest rates and capitalisation of
the arrears on the mortgage, but neither of these were agreed. Unfortunately, the impact of
covid-19 affected Mrs Ws ability to consistently meet the CMP during 2020. Although a
payment deferral was never agreed.
Mrs W complained about the way BoS were treating her, and specifically that they hadnt
offered her a lower interest rate, and the bank issued their final response in May 2020. They
explained that as Mrs Ws account had been in arrears since her fixed rate product ended,
then she was not eligible for a new interest rate product. They said the account was on hold
due to the impact of covid-19 and so no further action was being considered at that time.
They didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs W also complained about the fact the bank refused to capitalise her arrears when shed
been told they would consider doing so. BoS issued a separate final response letter about
that and offered Mrs W £200 to apologise for the fact shed been given incorrect information.
Mrs W had been told BoS would consider capitalisation if she made three consecutive
monthly payments. BoS confirmed in their final response letter that this was wrong, and she
needed to make 12 monthly payments before that would be considered.
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into things. She
didnt think BoS had acted unfairly by not offering Mrs W an interest rate product. She
agreed that Mrs W had been given incorrect information about capitalising the arrears, but
she felt BoS had done enough to put that right.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said she couldnt understand why the bank wouldnt give her a
lower interest rate product when what she was paying on the standard variable rate (SVR)
was more than what the new monthly payment would have been. Shed demonstrated she
could afford the higher monthly payments so didnt think it was fair that she was refused a
product.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so the complaints been passed to
me to issue a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 January 2022, and this is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to see that Mrs W has been through a difficult time over the years, and Im sorry to
hear about what shes been through. Having reviewed the contact notes and the history of
this mortgage account, I think its clear that Mrs W has consistently engaged with BoS about
her circumstances, and has been prioritising her mortgage payments in order to keep to the
arrangements set. Considering all the evidence, whilst Im satisfied that BoS showed some
forbearance in agreeing short term arrangements with Mrs W, and re-setting her payment
dates due to changes in benefits payments, Im not satisfied theyve done as much as they
could, and in my opinion should, have done to help Mrs W to manage this mortgage in the
long term.
Throughout 2018 and 2019, BoS were setting arrangements with Mrs W that required her to
pay her CMP of around £1,400 plus a contribution of around £200 towards the arrears.
Mrs Ws income largely came from benefits she was receiving as a result of her caring
responsibilities, although she was taking on part time work where she could. I understand
the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) were also contributing to the interest
payments on the mortgage. During that two year period, it seems that Mrs W was able to
make those agreed payments. I appreciate there were times when payments were made
late, or they were a little bit short. But from the notes it seems this was largely due to delays
or problems with the benefits payments being received on time, and were ultimately made to
the account.
Ive considered BoSs policy in regards to capitalising arrears on a mortgage account, and
also eligibility for interest rate products. Having thought carefully here about Mrs Ws overall
circumstances and what the bank could have done to help the future sustainability of the
mortgage, I think there was more BoS could have done to help make this mortgage more
affordable for Mrs W.
By early 2019, Mrs W had a 12 month track record of being able to afford a significant
payment that was higher than her CMP. I think at that point, Mrs W should have been given
the option to capitalise her arrears onto the mortgage, which would have led to her becoming
eligible for an interest rate product. That would have been in line with the banks own policy.
It seems that the income and expenditure assessments Mrs W completed for the bank
showed that she could afford to make the payments required under the arrangements. And
BoS have provided our service with information about what capitalisation and an interest rate
product would have meant for Mrs Ws monthly payments. This information shows that hadthese measures been put in place, Mrs Ws monthly payments would have reduced to less
than what she had already been paying.
I appreciate Mrs W hadnt specifically asked about capitalising her arrears until more
recently, but she had asked about interest rate products on at least two occasions and was
told she wasnt eligible for a product due to the arrears. The notes show that based on
Mrs Ws existing payment arrangements that the bank kept arranging, it would have taken
Mrs W 11 years to clear the arrears on the mortgage. Whilst this is within the existing
mortgage term, it would have meant that whilst the arrears were still present on Mrs Ws
account for that period, she would have remained trapped on the standard variable rate as
she would never have met the banks eligibility criteria for a product. However, if the arrears
had been capitalised, as Mrs W had demonstrated she could afford, she could have taken
out a lower interest rate which would have reduced her monthly payments, as well as
resulted in the mortgage being up to date and fully redeemed within the term.
I think the bank had a responsibility to explore both long term and short term forbearance
options to help Mrs W get the mortgage back on track and I think this option should have
been considered and suggested.
However, I do also acknowledge that during the time thats passed since these
conversations, Mrs W has unfortunately been impacted by the global pandemic, and so she
wasnt able to make all of her CMPs on time during 2020. I can see from the notes that
Mrs W did request a payment holiday because of this, but it doesnt seem that this was
granted. Its unclear why, but based on what Ive seen  and subject to any further
information being provided - I think Mrs W would have been eligible for a payment holiday
under the regulators guidance at the time. Having said this, Mrs W was able to make some
payments to the mortgage during that period, and it was in her interests to pay as much as
she could to reduce the longer term impact any payment holiday may have had.
BoS have said that because of the payment history during 2020 and 2021, even if they had
applied a lower interest rate product to the account, after capitalising the arrears in 2019,
there would still be arrears on the account now. And I do understand that and have thought
about it carefully. But looking at the calculations the bank have provided this service, if they
had applied lower interest rates to Mrs Ws accounts from 2019, the arrears position would
have gone from £26,489.29 to £3,359.30 as of November 2021. That is a significant
difference and Im satisfied it would be in both parties interests to make those changes to
the account.
Having considered what Mrs W has said to both the bank and this service, Im persuaded
that the lower arrears balance (less than three monthly payments) would be manageable for
her to clear in a short period of time. Those recent arrears have accrued as a result of a
global pandemic that has impacted a significant number of borrowers and could not have
been foreseen. And therefore, I consider Mrs W should be given the opportunity to clear
those arrears in line with the regulators guidance to lenders for offering forbearance to those
borrowers impacted by the pandemic. From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied these
measures should enable Mrs W to get this mortgage back on track and sustain it in the long
term.
BoS have also said that applying an interest rate product to Mrs Ws mortgage would result
in an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) becoming payable if the mortgage was redeemed
early. Theyre concerned that whilst arrears remain on the account, legal action may still be
taken, and this would result in more charges for Mrs W than if the product wasnt in place. I
think this is a relevant and important consideration.
At the time Mrs W was asking for help in 2018 and 2019, she was consistently paying morethan was required under the CMP. I dont think at that time, falling back into arrears was a
concern for Mrs W as she was taking steps to reduce the arrears that were already in place.
So Im satisfied the risk of applying an interest rate product with an ERC attached was low at
that time. The arrears that have subsequently accrued on the mortgage were a result of the
pandemic. And as Ive said above, both parties will need to engage about how these new
arrears will be repaid. Mrs W should be given an appropriate amount of time to consider her
options in how to repay those arrears before BoS consider starting any legal action to
recover them.
Overall, Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen, that capitalising Mrs Ws arrears and
offering her a lower interest rate in 2019 would have been appropriate forbearance to help
Mrs W get this mortgage back on track. Im satisfied her payment history, as well as the
details given about her income and expenditure, demonstrated her ability to sustain the
mortgage in that way in the long term. And so I think its something BoS should have put in
place for her. As a result, I intend to uphold this complaint.
As I intend to uphold Mrs Ws complaint about how the bank handled things in 2019, I
havent considered whether BoS should have capitalised Mrs Ws mortgage arrears in early
2020 as they wouldnt have existed.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I intend to direct BoS to re-work Mrs Ws mortgage account to put
it back into the position it should have been in had they capitalised her mortgage arrears and
given her a lower interest rate product. This means:
Capitalising Mrs Ws mortgage arrears as they stood in February 2019;
Applying the lowest available interest rate product that Mrs W would have been
eligible for in February 2019. The bank have told this service that would have been a
two-year fixed rate of 2.79%;
Applying the lowest available interest rate product that Mrs W would have been
eligible for on expiry of the above rate in May 2021. The bank have told this service
that would have been 1.4% fixed for either a three year or five year period. Mrs W
should get the opportunity to choose which shed prefer;
Refunding any fees or charges that were applied as a result of the arrears on the
account that wouldnt have been there following the above reconstruction;
Amending the way the bank has reported Mrs Ws mortgage to credit reference
agencies  to reflect the reconstructed mortgage position.
Having considered all the circumstances Im also persuaded that Mrs W has experienced
distress and inconvenience as a result of BoSs actions, and the way theyve handled
Mrs Ws mortgage since shes been asking for lower interest rates. Had BoS put in place the
forbearance Ive set out above, I think it would have saved Mrs W a lot of stress and worry
about her ability to make her mortgage payments, and also the time and stress of having to
call the bank and re-set arrangements every few months. The bank have discussed potential
legal action with Mrs W on more than one occasion and I think this could have been avoided.
Given Mrs Ws particular circumstances, I think an award of £750 should be paid to Mrs W to
compensate for this. That is on top of the £200 BoS have already paid in relation to the
incorrect information given.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W accepted my provisional decision.BoS responded and said, in summary:
During the period February 2018 to January 2019 inclusive, Mrs W only made 
payments of the CMP or more in five months. She underpaid in seven of those 
months. Whilst some months did have overpayments, they werent sufficient to cover 
the underpayments.
For customers with arrears of more than 12 months on the mortgage account, BoSs 
policy requires 12 months of consecutive payments of the CMP or more to be made 
in order to qualify for capitalisation. This is because they have an obligation to be 
confident about ongoing affordability.
Capitalising arrears should only be done as a last resort, and BoS dont think theyd 
reached a last resort as Mrs W had mentioned lump sum payments she was 
expecting which would have helped to clear the arrears.
Despite the fact that Mrs W has not met the requirement of maintaining payments for 
12 consecutive months, BoS are willing to offer capitalisation now based on Mrs Ws 
most recent payment history if she can demonstrate through an income and 
expenditure assessment that she can maintain the payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Ive thought carefully about the points BoS have made, my decision 
remains unchanged. Ill explain why.
I set out in my provisional decision that during the 12 month period leading up to February 
2019, Mrs W wasnt always able to make the full CMP on time each month. But the notes on 
the account suggest this was largely due to problems with Mrs Ws benefits being paid on 
time rather than an ongoing affordability issue. I also think its relevant to note that for the 
first half of 2018, BoS were including payments towards the arrears in their calculation of 
Mrs Ws CMP and this wasnt rectified until June, when the CMP reduced by around £200. 
So for the first half of 2018, Mrs Ws CMP was higher than it should have been. And looking 
at the 12 months payments as a whole, when you include the overpayments Mrs W made, 
she had only paid slightly under (less than half of one months CMP) what she should have 
done even on that higher CMP, before she then made overpayments again in early 2019. 
Whilst I appreciate BoS wanted to ensure that Mrs W could afford to maintain the monthly 
payments before agreeing to lock her into an interest rate product, they were measuring her 
ability to afford those payments whilst her mortgage was on the SVR. If Mrs Ws mortgage 
arrears were capitalised, and she had taken out a new interest rate product, her monthly 
payments would have been lower than what she had been paying. And I think Mrs W had 
provided sufficient evidence to show she could afford those payments.
BoS have said that capitalisation should only have been considered as a last resort, and 
they didnt think theyd reached that point, as Mrs W had mentioned she was expecting lump 
sum payments in the future. When arrears are capitalised onto a mortgage account, more 
interest becomes payable on those arrears over the term of the mortgage than if they were 
cleared separately through an arrangement, or repaid in a lump sum. So generally, where 
there are viable options available to clear the arrears more quickly, that can be preferable to 
adding them to the mortgage balance.
Mrs W did mention at points during 2018 that she was expecting some lump sum payments 
to be made to her. She made reference to a drawdown pension and an insurance premium refund she was expecting. I think it would have been reasonable for BoS to take that 
information into account when discussing Mrs Ws options with her in relation to the future 
payments to the mortgage account. 
But during those conversations it was clear that Mrs Ws main concern was clearing the 
arrears balance so that she could take out a new interest rate product and reduce her 
monthly payments. I think if BoS had explained the options Mrs W had available to her at the 
time, i.e. capitalising the arrears and taking out a lower interest product, or staying on the 
SVR until she received the expected lump sum payments and could clear the arrears in one 
go, then Mrs W would have preferred to have capitalised the arrears and reduce her 
payments as soon as she could. I dont think it would have been irresponsible or unfair of 
BoS to agree to that given the benefits that would have resulted and Mrs Ws priorities at the 
time. During the conversations Mrs W had with BoS during that time, she was consistently 
asking what else could be done to bring her monthly payments down, and so Im persuaded 
that BoS should have discussed the option of capitalising Mrs Ws arrears with her, and had 
they done that, she would have agreed to it.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, BoS should put Mrs Ws mortgage back into the position it should 
have been in had they capitalised her mortgage arrears and given her a lower interest rate 
product in February 2019. This means:
Capitalising Mrs Ws mortgage arrears as they stood in February 2019;
Applying the lowest available interest rate product that Mrs W would have been 
eligible for in February 2019. The bank have told this service that would have been 
2.79%;
Applying the lowest available interest rate product that Mrs W would have been 
eligible for on expiry of the above rate in May 2021. The bank have told this service 
that would have been 1.4%;
Refunding any fees or charges that were applied as a result of the arrears on the 
account that wouldnt have been there following the above reconstruction;
Amending the way the bank has reported Mrs Ws mortgage to credit reference 
agencies  to reflect the reconstructed mortgage position.
Having considered all the circumstances Im also persuaded that Mrs W has experienced 
distress and inconvenience as a result of BoSs actions, and the way theyve handled 
Mrs Ws mortgage since shes been asking for lower interest rates. 
Had BoS put in place the forbearance Ive set out above, I think Mrs W would have been 
saved a lot of stress and worry about her ability to make her mortgage payments, and also 
the time and stress of having to call the bank and re-set arrangements every few months. 
BoS have discussed potential legal action with Mrs W on more than one occasion and I think 
this could have been avoided. Given Mrs Ws particular circumstances, I think an appropriate 
award of £750 should be paid to Mrs W to compensate for this. That is on top of the £200 
BoS have already paid in relation to the incorrect information given.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman