DRN-4381524
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc provided him with poor customer service regarding a 
block on his account. 
What happened
Mr S rang Santander as his account was blocked. He said that he felt he was being mocked 
on the call, the call handler told him she didnt even know what day of the week it was, she 
told him that his account was permanently locked, and it would remain locked for three days, 
and there were multiple blocks placed on his account. Mr S suspected the information he 
had been given was incorrect, so he rang Santander again, and the second call handler was 
able to remove the blocks. Mr S made a complaint to Santander. 
Santander upheld Mr S complaint and they said they would credit £75 into his account. They 
said they agreed the first call handler was unsure of the process when payment flags were 
applied and she was unsure of their complaints process, and due to this, incorrect 
information had been provided to him. Santander agreed that the advisor had provided 
incorrect timescales for the blocked payment, and further inconvenience may have been 
caused if Mr S had not called back. They said the call handler should not have left him on 
hold for over 20 minutes, and unnecessary delays were caused by the advisor. They said 
the call handler had not followed their processes correctly and she had not been fully 
professional throughout the call, but they did not feel the call handler had intentionally meant 
to cause Mr S harm. Mr S brought his complaint to our service. 
Santander made a proactive settlement offer to increase the compensation by a further £25. 
Mr S rejected this and he asked our investigator to complete an investigation into his 
complaint. Our investigator felt the total of £100 compensation was fair, but she also 
suggested Santander provide feedback to the first call handlers manager in regard to the 
call on 4 June 2023, as this should be listened to, and training or coaching provided as 
appropriate. She said the account was unblocked the same day, so he didnt lose access to 
his funds for an unreasonable length of time. But she accepted that his call should have 
been handled better and more efficiently. She did not feel the call handler was mocking Mr 
S, being argumentative or deliberately making things difficult.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the compensation was not 
enough as he felt mocked, there were times when the call handler was incredibly rude and 
laughed at him. He believed the call handler deliberately made things difficult for him and 
this wasnt just due to a lack of training on the call handlers part. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent them from being victims of fraud and scams. Sometimes they identify and 
block legitimate payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress and 
inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Ive listened to the first phone call that Mr S had with Santander on 4 June 2023. There are 
long periods of silence on the call which means Mr S needs to keep asking if the call handler 
is still there. When he gets access to the application (app) he tells the call handler the 
information she has gave him is different to the information on the app. And he makes a 
payment while he is on the phone. The call handler confirms the blocks have been removed. 
Mr S asks to make a complaint and the call handler says she would need to transfer him 
over to the complaints team. When she returns to Mr S she doesnt apologise for the long 
hold time. He tells her that he has been locked out of the account and the call handler tells 
him his last payment needs to be reviewed by their back office team and it could take up to 
72 hours for this to happen. 
Mr S asks to make a complaint and the call handler puts him on hold again. Mr S is on hold 
for a long time again before the call handler comes back. She apologises not for the time on 
hold, but she apologises because the complaints team are closed, and she says she can fill 
out a form for him. Mr S asks why she didnt know the complaints department was closed 
and the call handler says she didnt realise it was a Sunday. Mr S says he feels like she is 
mocking him and the call handler doesnt respond. Mr S points this out and she says she 
was speaking to someone about his payments. He says she told him he was on hold for the 
complaint, but she says that this was before. The complaint form is logged, and the call 
handler says she does apologise, and she hopes it gets sorted for Mr S.
Ive listened to the second call that Mr S had with Santander. The call handler quickly 
removed the blocks and confirmed Mr S payment had gone through. The call handler says 
she didnt understand why the previous call handler didnt clear the blocks and she should 
have done. 
After listening to the first call, it is clear that there were a number of service failings on the 
call. But I cant agree that the call handler mocked Mr S during the call. I know the strength 
of feeling he has about this. And this is a subjective issue. But Im not persuaded that at any 
point she mocked him or intentionally tried to cause him issues. I did not hear her laugh at 
Mr S or be argumentative or rude. Im satisfied that the issues Mr S faced on the call were 
due to her knowledge of Santanders processes, and what she was able to do for Mr S on 
the phone, as opposed to her deliberately acting maliciously to inconvenience Mr S. 
I say this because the second call handler Mr S spoke to had managed to remove the 
remaining blocks in a fraction of the time of the first call without putting Mr S on hold. So if 
the first call handler was unsure of how to remove the blocks or if she was unable to do this, 
then it would have been more appropriate to transfer Mr S to someone who could remove 
the blocks. On the first occasion she put Mr S on hold, she spoke to a colleague about the 
pending payment Mr S had told her she got incorrect - and she hadnt rung the complaints 
team. 
The call handler should have explained to Mr S that she was going to speak to a colleague 
to look into this as opposed to saying she was going to transfer him through to the 
complaints department. So when Mr S was told later in the call that she was going to transfer 
him to the complaints department, then there would have been no confusion about what was 
happening, albeit the complaints department werent open on a Sunday.
Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. As our investigator has 
previously explained to Mr S, it is not within our remit to ask Santander to provide training to 
all of their staff and to review their security protocols. Our investigator recommended that 
feedback is provided to the first call handlers manager in regard to the first call on 4 June 
2023 as the call should be listened to and training or coaching is provided where appropriate. This is something I would not usually recommend Santander to do, as this will 
not change the impact of what happened on Mr S for the complaint he brought to us, but as 
Santander have not objected to this recommendation, then I am not minded to interfere on 
this point if the call handler is still employed by Santander in the same role.
Ive considered the amount of compensation which would be fair for the impact this call had 
on Mr S. In doing so, one of the things I need to be mindful of is what actually happened and 
not what could have happened. I also need to be mindful of how long it took for the blocks to 
be removed. Mr S was inconvenienced by having to ring Santander back. He experienced 
long periods of silence on the first call, he would have been distressed by the wrong 
information he was given on the first call and the long hold times. But ultimately, the blocks 
were fully removed on the same day. So Im satisfied that a total of £100 compensation is 
fair for the impact that the first call on 4 June 2023 had on Mr S. So it follows I intend to ask 
Santander to put things right for Mr S.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended that Santander provide feedback to the first call handlers 
manager (if the call handler still works for Santander in the same role) in regard to the first 
call on 4 June 2023. This call should be listened to, and training or coaching provided as 
appropriate. I am not minded to interfere with this recommendation. She also suggested 
Santander pay further compensation of £25 to Mr S (in addition to the £75 previously 
awarded) - in line with the offer already made, which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should provide feedback to the first call handlers 
manager (if the call handler still works for Santander in the same role) in regard to the first 
call on 4 June 2023. This call should be listened to, and training or coaching provided where 
appropriate. They should also pay Mr S a further £25 (to total £100) compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman