DRN-2560911
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance, has dealt with a car that had been supplied to him under a 
conditional sale agreement after it was written-off in an incident.
What happened
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Barclays Partner Finance on 27 January 2021. In my provisional decision I said as 
follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr T under a conditional sale agreement with Barclays 
Partner Finance in July 2015. The car was damaged in an incident and an assessor 
appointed by Mr Ts insurer considered the car to be a write-off. Mr T didnt agree 
and wanted to arrange an inspection of the car and for the damaged car to be 
returned to him. He says that Barclays Partner Finance told him that that couldnt 
happen and it released its interest in the car in November 2019 and it was then 
scrapped.
Mr Ts insurer had voided his insurance policy in May 2019 due to an undisclosed 
motoring conviction and Mr T complained to Barclays Partner Finance that the car 
had been scrapped and that the value of it hadnt been used to reduce the amount 
that he owed to it under the conditional sale agreement.
It said that it didnt agree to Mr Ts request to void the loan or refund any payments 
and that £874 remained outstanding  but it accepted that Mr T hadnt received the 
service he expected and deserved so it paid him £100 in recognition of the poor 
service. Mr T wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt 
believe that Barclays Partner Finance had done anything wrong in relation to the 
write-off of Mr Ts car as it was his insurer who had arranged the inspection and it 
was its decision to scrap the car.
Mr T has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has asked 
Barclays Partner Finance to provide recordings of his conversations with it but it 
hasnt been able to do so. He says that he asked it to help him to get the car out of 
the garage and released to him directly so that it could be inspected again but it 
released its interest in the car so it could be scrapped. He says that he told Barclays 
Partner Finance that the assessors valuation of the car wasnt accurate and that hed 
been told that the car had a scrap value of at least £550.
Its clear that the car was damaged in an incident and was inspected by the insurers 
assessor who said that it was a write-off so should be scrapped and that Barclays 
Partner Finance then released its interest in the car so that it could be scrapped.
Mr T has consistently said that he asked Barclays Partner Finance to release the car 
to him so that he could arrange for it be inspected and use the value of the car to 
reduce the amount that he owed to it under the conditional sale agreement. He has 
asked Barclays Partner Finance to provide him with the recordings of its 
conversations with him during which this was discussed but it hasnt been able to do 
so.
I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr T did ask Barclays Partner Finance to 
release the car to him and Im not persuaded that its properly explained to him why it 
released the car for it to be scrapped. That prevented Mr T from arranging for the car 
to be inspected and trying to obtain the scrap value of the car. I dont consider that 
Barclays Partner Finance acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr T says that hed been told that the car had a scrap value of at least £550 but the 
car was scrapped and no value was received. Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the car did have a scrap value of £550 but I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the car did have some value. I consider that it would have 
been fair and reasonable for Barclays Partner Finance to have released the car to 
Mr T. In the absence of any clear evidence about the scrap value of the car I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances to take a middle 
value between the no value that was received and the £550 that has been referred to 
by Mr T  that is £275.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays Partner Finance to reduce the 
amount that Mr T owes to it by £275 and, if that puts his account into credit, to pay 
the credit balance to him. Barclays Partner Finance has already paid £100 to Mr T for 
the poor service that he received and I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to pay him any other 
compensation.
So subject to any further representations by Mr T or Barclays Partner Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Barclays Partner 
Finance has accepted my provisional decision but Mr T has responded to it in detail and 
says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
Barclays Partner Finance didnt advise him that the car couldnt be released to him;
it was asked to help to have the car released to him but it made a decision without 
correspondence with him;
he doesnt agree with the assessors report and believes that the value of the car 
would have been much higher if it was scrapped by him or if a second opinion of the 
damage was obtained; and
Barclays Partner Finance acted in a dishonest way, its actions arent legitimate and 
he should have a right to ask for all of the money that hes paid towards this 
agreement back  as its breached its contract with him and the law.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. 
Mr T clearly feels very strongly that Barclays Partner Finance has acted incorrectly, that he 
doesnt agree with the assessors report and that he would have received a much higher scrap value for the car if it had been released to him. 
In my provisional decision I said that I dont consider that Barclays Partner Finance acted 
fairly and reasonably and that it would have been fair and reasonable for it to have released 
the car to Mr T. I also said that Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
the car did have a scrap value of £550 but that it did have some value. 
Mr T hasnt provided any further evidence to show that the car had a scrap value of £550 or 
more and the car has been scrapped so its value cant now be properly assessed . 
I consider that the conclusion that I reached in my provisional decision that a middle value of 
£275 should be used remains fair and reasonable. Im not persuaded that Barclays Partner 
Finance has acted dishonestly or thats its action arent legitimate. Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to refund to Mr T the payments that hes 
made under the agreement or to reduce the amount that he owes it by more than £275.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays Partner Finance to reduce the amount 
that Mr T owes to it by £275 and, if that puts his account into credit, to pay the credit balance 
to him. Barclays Partner Finance has already paid £100 to Mr T for the poor service that he 
received and I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for 
me to require it to pay him any other compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I order Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance, to reduce the amount that Mr T owes to it by 
£275 and, if that puts his account into credit, to pay the credit balance to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman