DRN-4024776
The complaint
Mrs E complains about end of contract charges levied by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (Novuna).
What happened
Mrs E took out a hire agreement for a car with Novuna in 2017. The agreement was due to 
end after three years, but Mrs E extended it for an extra two years. 
The hire agreement contained a term that Mrs E was responsible for any damage and/or 
deterioration caused to the car otherwise through fair wear and tear, as indicated in the 
guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) (the industry guidelines for assessing fair wear and tear upon the return of a hired 
vehicle). It required her to pay compensation to Novuna if, upon the return of the car at the 
end of the agreement, there was a failure to comply with this. 
 
When Mrs E was due to return the car at the end of the hire period, Novuna sent an agent to 
inspect it. The agent completed a report recording the following items of damage: 
reference item description charge
item one front bumper dull paint bumper corner 
£75
item two bonnet preparation marks, 
poor repairrefinish 
£140
item three front bumper misaligned refit
£50
item four sill panel L scratched through 
paint smart repair
£75
item five C post L dent, paint damage multiple repair and 
finish 
£175
item six rear bumper misaligned refit
£50
item seven C post R dent, minor paint 
damagePDR
£60
item eight B post R scratched through 
paint refinish
£140
item nine sill panel R scratched through 
paintsmart repair
£75
Total £840
Novuna asked Mrs E to pay it £840. Mrs E was unhappy with this. She said shed paid a 
considerable sum of money to a third party in the month before the car was returned to 
ensure it was in excellent condition and had travelled around 14,000 miles below the 
permitted mileage in the agreement. So, she didnt think it was reasonable to be asked to 
pay this amount. 
Novuna re-reviewed the inspection but said it still considered all of the items to be 
chargeable when measured against the BVRLA guidelines. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs E brought her complaint to this service. 
An investigator thought Mrs Es complaint should be upheld in part. He said the photographs 
taken at the time of the inspection didnt persuade him that Novuna had fairly charged Mrs E 
for items one, two, three and six. But he thought Novuna had fairly charged Mrs E for the 
remaining items as the damage appeared to be outside the tolerance levels for fair and wear 
and tear in the BVRLA guidelines. He asked Novuna remove the sums charged in items one, 
two, three and six from Mrs Es liability to it. 
Mrs E didnt fully agree with the investigator. She said Novuna should consider the fact she 
had the car two years longer than originally planned and should also consider the overall 
condition the car was returned in.
Novuna didnt fully agree with the investigator either. It agreed to remove the charges in 
respect of items one and two. However, it said it still considered that the photographs from 
the inspection evidenced the misalignments described in the report for items three and six.
The complaint was therefore referred to an ombudsman for further review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given consideration to the fact the hire agreement effectively permitted Novuna to seek 
compensation from Mrs E if, when the car was returned, there was damage or deterioration 
that was beyond fair wear and tear  as indicated in the BVRLA guidelines. But Ive also 
thought about what is fair and reasonable overall in the circumstances of Mrs Es complaint. 
Novuna has agreed that it wont charge Mrs E for items one and two. So, I will not consider 
those further in this decision, save to say that like the investigator, Im not persuaded the 
photographs showed what the inspection said they did. So it was fair for Novuna to reduce 
Mrs E liability to it in respect of these two items.
Ive thought about whether the remaining items met the required standard for fair wear and 
tear in the BVRLA guidelines as per the hire agreement. Ill then go to on consider more 
generally whether it was fair for Novuna to charge Mrs E for those items. 
Item three
Theres no mention of panel alignment in the BVRLA guidance. But in any event, looking at 
the photograph that has been provided, its not clear enough to me the panel was 
misaligned. I cant tell from the picture what the correct alignment should have looked like. 
So, I dont think Novuna has evidenced that it fairly charged for this item and should reduce 
Mrs Es liability to it accordingly. 
Item four
The BVRLA guidelines set out that scratches below a certain length are acceptable if the 
primer or bare metal is not showing or they can be polished out. The bear metal is showing in the photograph of this item. So, I think Novuna has evidenced that this item was not fair 
wear and tear as per the BVRLA guidelines. 
Item five
Again, the photograph of this item shows the scratch either looks like it couldnt be polished 
out, or the primer is showing. And there appears to be a dent larger than 15mm, which is 
also not acceptable wear and tear under the guidelines. So, I think Novuna has evidenced 
that this item was not fair wear and tear as per the BVRLA guidelines. 
Item six 
The photograph is taken in very close proximity which makes it difficult to know what the 
panel alignment should have looked like. Its not clear enough to me the panel was 
misaligned. So, I dont think Novuna has evidenced that it fairly charged for this and should 
reduce Mrs Es liability to accordingly.
Item seven
The photograph shows the bare metal or primer is showing or the scratch cant be polished 
out. I think Novuna has evidenced this item was not fair wear and tear as per the BVRLA 
guidelines.
Item eight
The photograph shows the bare metal or primer is showing. I think Novuna has evidenced 
this item was not fair wear and tear as per the BVRLA guidelines.
Item nine 
There are several small scratches where at least the primer is showing. I think Novuna has 
evidenced this item was not fair wear and tear as per the BVRLA guidelines.
Overall, like the investigator, the evidence persuades me that items four, five, seven, eight 
and nine were not items of fair wear and tear in accordance with the BVRLA guidelines. 
Under the terms of the agreement it therefore appears Novuna was permitted to charge Mrs 
E for these items. From what Ive seen, the amounts Novuna asked Mrs E to pay do not 
appear to have been unreasonable for the kind of damage identified and its likely they 
broadly reflected either the potential cost of repair or potential loss of value to the vehicle. 
Thats not the end of the matter however and Ive thought about whether overall it was still 
fair to charge Mrs E for these items.  
Mrs E said she had the car two years longer than originally planned and this should be taken 
into consideration. Were the car already used or older and not brand new when it was 
supplied to Mrs E, I mightve agreed this made a difference here. The BVRLA guidelines 
were intended to assist in the assessment of fair wear and tear upon the return of new 
vehicles at the end of a typical hire period. However, five years was not an unusually long 
period of hire. So, I think it was still fair for Novuna to hold the car to the standards set out in 
the BVRLA guidelines in this respect.
 
Ive considered the other points Mrs E raised such as her having driven a lot less than the 
permitted mileage and her having paid for other work on the car to get it up to standard 
before it was returned. But these things do not persuade me Novuna unfairly charged her for 
the items it appears it was permitted to make a charge for under the terms of its agreement. The items appear to have been relatively prominent. And Ive no reason to believe Mrs E 
was not aware of the return standards before she returned the car.
Overall therefore I think a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is that Novuna 
should reduce Mrs Es liability to it in respect of items one to nine by £315. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Es complaint in part. To put things right Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions must reduce Mrs Es liability to it in 
respect of items one to nine to £525. If Mrs E has made any payments to it in respect of 
these items in excess of this amount, it should refund this to Mrs E plus interest at 8% simple 
per annum from the date it was paid until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman