DRN-3493083
The complaint
Mr L complained that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd (VM) hadnt agreed to him 
cashing in his Stakeholder pension early, in spite of him being ill and unable to work. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. 
Mr L had a stakeholder pension account with VM for some years. He said he last contributed 
to the plan around ten years ago. The value of the plan was just over £50.
Mr L has a number of physical and mental health conditions. Mr L began receiving universal 
credit disability payments in May 2019, as the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) 
decided he had limited capability for work and work-related activity. This meant he would no 
longer be asked to search or prepare for work. 
Mr L contacted VM at the end of June 2021 and asked to close his account and have the 
funds released to him earlier than planned. He told VM he was unhappy that the account 
had switched to a different plan, which he hadnt authorised. VM told Mr L it couldnt close 
the account, so Mr L complained. 
VM responded on 6 July 2021 and said when changes were being made to the plan, 
consumers were given the chance to opt out. For those who didnt opt out, the change was 
made to the new investment model. It said Mr L was given 3 months written notice of the 
changes in August 2020, and a reminder was sent in September 2020. When no 
communication was received from Mr L, the change was completed in November 2020. 
VM also said that in order to progress Mr Ls request for early release of the funds due to ill 
health, Mr L would need to provide a letter from his GP detailing the following: 
Confirmation of the condition(s) which leaves him unable to work. 
Confirmation from his GP that Mr L had to cease working and would be unable to 
return to that occupation due to his ongoing health conditions. 
Mr L contacted VM in September 2021 and was advised to send all medical evidence to 
support his request to close the account. 
Mr L complained to our Service in September 2021. He said he sought advice and was told 
he could close the account early, so before the age of 55, if he could prove ill health and that 
he had no future job prospects. Mr L said he was in receipt of disability benefit and could 
provide evidence of his significant health problems. Mr L said he had been ill from a very 
young age and had only ever worked intermittently, in part time roles. He said dealing with 
this matter has had a significant impact on his mental health. 
Mr L also complained to us about the service provided by VM. He said he wasnt asked to 
provide any medical information in support of his request to have the account closed. Mr L 
complained that VM had made changes to the pension plan three times since he bought it, 
that hes on a low income and no longer pays into the account. He said he was allowed to 
close a similar account in the recent past.  
Mr L then wrote to VM in October 2021 to say he still hadnt received a response in relation 
to his complaint about releasing the funds early. VM told Mr L it had contacted its pension 
team and asked that they acknowledge and respond to Mr L. VM also let Mr L know it had 
responded to his complaint in July 2021, although it seemed he hadnt received the letter. 
When our Investigator contacted VM, it said Mr L didnt meet the criteria for early closure of 
the account on the grounds of ill-health, as he didnt have an occupation to cease. It said 
early payment of benefits happens to allow consumers to cope financially if they lose income 
from their current occupation. But Mr L doesnt have a current occupation. VM said if it was 
to release the funds without the correct evidence in place, it could be responsible for an 
unauthorised payment charge, which would represent 55% of the clients fund value. The 
client could also be fined up to 25% of their fund value directly. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said VM relied on the requirements 
outlined by HMRCs pension tax manual to make decisions about whether early payments 
on ill-health grounds could be made. He said he couldnt see that VM made an error here. In 
order to reach its decision, it had reviewed the medical evidence, consulted the pension 
schemes trustees and consulted the HMRC pension tax manual. And, ultimately, the 
decision is made at VMs discretion. Our Investigator said Mr L could consider getting advice 
about his options, which might include switching his pension to another provider. 
Looking at the customer service provided, our Investigator said there were a few instances 
where Mr L chased progress with VM and there was little communication with him after the 
matter was referred to its head office. He also thought VM hadnt explained to Mr L why it 
had declined his request. Our Investigator said Mr Ls mental health conditions meant this 
had a greater impact on him, and asked VM to pay Mr L £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Our Investigator also looked at the changes made to Mr Ls pension plan. He said VM had 
the right to make changes to how the pension is run, as long as its compliant with relevant 
regulations. And enough notice was given to allow consumers to move their pensions 
elsewhere if they were unhappy. So he didnt think VM had made an error here. 
VM agreed to pay the £150 compensation suggested by our Investigator. 
Mr L disagreed with the outcome our Investigator reached, and said it was unfair to 
individuals who are so unwell that they cant work. He said he had no way of getting a job 
and so he could never hope to meet the criteria. Mr L said that he had a different pension 
plan with VM in 2019, which was closed without any fuss or need for medical evidence. But 
Mr L agreed with the amount of compensation suggested by our Investigator for the distress 
and inconvenience VM caused. 
As Mr L disagreed, this came to me for a decision.
I contacted VM and said Id seen the HMRC guidance quoted and relied on by VM, and the 
relevant pension tax manual, which says: 
Members may get authorised pension payments before normal minimum pension age if the 
ill-health condition is met. This is generally referred to as ill-health retirement. The ill-health
condition is met if:the scheme administrator has received evidence that the member is, and will 
continue to be, medically incapable (either physically or mentally) of continuing their 
current occupation as a result of injury, sickness, disease or disability, and
the member ceases to carry on that occupation.
The evidence must be provided by a registered medical practitioner. That is a fully registered
person within the meaning of the Medical Act 1983 who holds a licence to practise under 
that Act. This medical evidence must be kept for at least six years following the end of the 
tax year on which the ill-health pension started, or the lump sum payment was made.
The ill-health condition is the minimum requirement set by the tax legislation. In practice,
scheme rules may have stricter ill-health criteria. For example, they may state that the 
member must be incapable of carrying out any occupation, rather than the current 
occupation that they are in.
I agreed with what VM said in relation to Mr L not currently working and so having no 
occupation to cease. But I said my understanding of the HMRC guidance was that a pension 
provider doesnt have to rely strictly on the criteria about how a member must be incapable 
of carrying on their current occupation. I thought this was simply the minimum criteria it 
should consider. So pension providers could, if they chose, make the criteria more strict by 
applying any occupation rather than current occupation. And this is what Mr L is essentially 
asking for  for it to be taken into consideration that he is incapable, and has been for some 
time, of carrying out any occupation. I asked VM to consider whether greater flexibility could 
be applied in Mr Ls case. 
VM responded and said Mr L didnt meet the necessary definition because he has never had 
an occupation to cease and it needs to be the case that he had an occupation to cease. It 
said if Mr L had a previous occupation some time ago, and the letter from his GP confirmed 
he had to cease working in that role due to ill-health, and couldnt work in that role again, it 
would have authorised the payment. 
Mr L then provided this Service with more information about his work history, and this was 
forwarded to VM to consider. 
VM responded and said HMRC criteria stated the information needed to be on headed 
paper, from a medical professional. It needed a GP letter confirming Mr Ls most recent 
employment, that he had to leave due to ill health, and confirmation that he was not able to 
work again in that role. VM said once this was provided, it would reconsider Mr Ls request.
Mr L said he wasnt going to provide another GP letter as he didnt think it was necessary, 
given the quantity of information provided so far. In particular, he said the most recent GP 
letter provided detailed his various health conditions and said he was unable to work. Mr L 
said another GP letter would cost him £30 and, given that hes on a low income, he cant 
afford unnecessary expenses. 
  
I issued a provisional decision on 14 April 2022. I said I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. I said I didnt think the information Mr L provided so far was enough to evidence 
whether or not he fit the HMRC criteria being relied on by VM. I said that if Mr L provided a 
GPs letter with all the necessary information in line with the HMRC guidance in the future, 
then this could be sent to VM for it to consider. I gave both parties the opportunity to 
respond. 
After receiving the provisional decision, Mr L obtained further information from his GP. This 
was considered by VM, and it has now agreed that Mr L can close his pension account on 
the grounds of ill health. Mr L asked VM to refund him the cost of obtaining letters from his GP, but it declined his 
request. So I then considered this. I contacted both parties and said I didnt think VM needed 
to refund the GP fees. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. Mr L responded but 
didnt provide further comments for me to consider. VM didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am partially upholding this complaint.
The main complaint point here was VM declining to close Mr Ls pension account early on 
the grounds of ill-health. But this matter has now been dealt with to the satisfaction of both 
parties. Mr L has provided a letter from his GP that VM considers meets the HMRC criteria 
and its agreed to close the account. So given that the pension account will now be closed by 
VM and the funds paid to Mr L, theres no need for me to address this point further. 
Mr L asked VM to cover the cost of the letters he obtained from his GP. But VM didnt agree 
to do this. Ive considered everything and Im satisfied VM dont need to refund the cost of 
the letters. Broadly speaking, I might only ask a business like VM to cover this type of cost if 
I thought its actions meant costs had been incurred unnecessarily. But thats not the case 
here. HMRC outline the criteria that needs to be met in order to access the pension funds 
early, and this includes obtaining a letter from a GP that needs to contain very specific 
medical and employment related information. So if any consumer wants to access the funds 
early, then they have to bear the cost of that. I see no reason why VM should be liable for 
these costs.
Mr L also complained about the customer service provided by VM. I agree that there were 
times when VM could have communicated more effectively with Mr L, in particular in relation 
to VM not letting Mr L know it had declined his request, and Mr L hearing this for the first 
time when our Investigator issued his findings. I think the compensation of £150 suggested 
by our Investigator, for the distress and inconvenience VM caused Mr L, is fair. 
Mr L was also unhappy that changes had been made to his pension plan without him 
authorising the changes. But VM is allowed to make changes, in line with relevant 
regulations, to how it manages pension funds. I can see that when Mr L was contacted in 
2020 about the changes, he was told that they would go ahead unless he opted out. From 
what I can see, Mr L didnt contact VM to opt out. So I dont think VM made any errors here 
in relation to how it communicated with Mr L about changes. 
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, VM should pay Mr L £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
I require Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd to pay Mr L £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 Martina Ryan
Ombudsman