DRN-3652347
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) closed his current account.
Background
In April 2022, Mr A opened an account with Halifax. However, Halifax subsequently reviewed 
further information pertaining to its final checks and as a result of this it notified Mr A that it 
was no longer prepared to offer him an account. Mr A was unhappy with this and 
complained. Halifax didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly towards Mr A 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr A, a bank is under no obligation to offer an account to a 
consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And, after completing its final checks, Halifax decided it 
didnt wish to have Mr A as a customer. 
Closing a customers account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And it 
has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision. Nonetheless, its clear to see that   
Mr A has been told by Halifax that it was unhappy with some of the information he provided 
during his application. So Im satisfied that Halifax has taken reasonable steps for Mr A to 
understand why it wasnt prepared to offer him an account. 
I realise that Halifaxs decision will have been very disappointing to Mr A and I can 
appreciate why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. I also 
suspect that theres an element of disappointment that hes unable to have an account. But 
despite all of this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Halifax it has to offer Mr A an 
account in circumstances where it has legitimately decided it doesnt wish to do so. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly towards 
Mr A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I 
think Halifax hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman