DRN-4188827
The complaint
Mr F complained, on his own behalf and also in his capacity as the sole representative of the 
estate of Mrs F, that HSBC UK Bank Plc provided him and his late wife with unsuitable 
investment advice in 1999.  
Mr F is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F sold their business giving them an investment pot in excess of £3 million and 
in 1999 they sought investment advice from HSBC. They hoped to be able to live off the 
money from the sale without needing to work again.
Mr F said HSBC recommended:
£1 million investment in its Investment Management Service (IMA) 
£1.5 million in investment bonds which offered the option of taking an income tax free 
whenever needed.
Mr F mainly complained that the IMA consisted of 83% equities (company shares) and 17% 
treasury stock which didnt reflect their attitude to risk or the fact that he and his wife were 
new to investments, an area in which they had no particular knowledge or expertise. They 
made a significant loss on the IMA following market crashes before encashing their portfolio 
to buy rental properties instead. Mr and Mrs F kept the investment bonds until a market 
value adjustment (MVA) was no longer imposed and they broke even, but Mr F said they 
never took any income.  
Mrs F died in 2021.
Mr F complained, via the CMC in January 2022. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. It 
explained that due to the passage of time it no longer had paperwork from the point of sale 
in 1999. But it said it would have been standard practice to complete a fact finding document 
to record aspects of Mr and Mrs Fs financial and personal situation, assets, and whether 
they wished to invest for income or capital growth. It said an important part of this process 
would have been to establish Mr and Mrs Fs attitude to investment risk. HSBC said before 
proceeding with the investment, it was standard procedure to provide customers with 
relevant product literature which contained full explanations and this gave Mr and Mrs F the 
opportunity to recognise and accept that fluctuations in value were inevitable, including the 
likelihood of falls occurring from time to time.
Mr F was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
Where complaints concern something that happened more than six years ago, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. I first considered whether the 
complaint was in our jurisdiction and was satisfied that this was a complaint we could look at. 
Our investigator proceeded to look into what happened.
Based on the limited information the parties were able to provide, our investigator felt there 
wasnt enough information for her to be able to say that HSBC gave Mr and Mrs F unsuitable 
advice. So she didnt uphold this complaint.   
Mr F disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman review. On his behalf, the 
CMC made the following main points: 
it was established that Mr and Mrs F were first time investors with no previous 
knowledge of investments
as first time investors, the recommended investment placed them at too much risk 
and didnt reflect their attitude to risk or lack of investment experience 
although Mr and Mrs F may have been able to absorb the loss this is irrelevant - 
assessment of suitability must take into account risk. The investment advised by 
HSBC was not cautious or low risk, the IMA advised consisted of 83% investment in 
equities which exposed Mr and Mrs F into risk far beyond their appetite.
Mr and Mrs F were advised to invest over 73% of their capital which is excessive for 
first time investors
similar complaints have been upheld and it wouldnt be fair not to uphold this 
complaint simply because Mr and Mrs F had more savings than most people.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the issues I need to address in order to 
reach a fair outcome. Its my understanding that the core of Mr Fs argument is that HSBC 
recommended Mr and Mrs F to invest too much of their money into investments that were 
too risky for them as first-time investors. 
Theres only limited information available. HSBC cannot provide point of sale documents 
from more than 20 years ago and so I have relied substantially on what Mr F has been able 
to provide and what he recalls from the sale. He said that an HSBC Private Client Manager 
came to Mr and Mrs Fs home to advise them. Based on what HSBC told them, they had 
understood that the IMA investment would be actively managed for them by experts on a 
discretionary basis  which Mr and Mrs F wanted. They also understood that the bonds they 
were advised to invest in would provide them with income, although the interest on their 
residual savings proved to be sufficient for their needs. Mr F recalled telling the manager that 
he and his wife wanted low risk for their investments and trusted that the bonds reflected 
this. 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs F had previously invested in PEPs  a form of tax efficient equity 
based investment. And given that Mr F told us he and his wife had felt other investment 
advice theyd received elsewhere was very cavalier I think its likely that Mr and Mrs F had 
some basic understanding of investment risk. But I think it's fair to say that prior to selling 
their business they wouldve had had no experience at all of such a significant investment 
pot. So I have approached this complaint on the basis that they would have been very 
substantially reliant on HSBCs advice when it came to making investment decisions.   
HSBC needed to consider Mr and Mrs Fs investment goals and ensure that its 
recommended investments matched Mr and Mrs Fs investment needs and objectives. Primarily, it seems Mr and Mrs F hoped they wouldnt have to work for a living again. This 
meant they were effectively looking to be able to live off their capital and the income it 
produced for them. With more than £3 million available to them for investment purposes, 
I dont think that was an unrealistic goal. And they were clearly well placed in a strong 
financial position to be able to invest. But, given this objective, I think that Mr and Mrs F still 
likely wouldve needed to invest some money in a risk-based investment  not least because 
of the risk that inflation could erode the value of money over future years.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr and Mrs F would have been comfortable with the 
level of risk they took on when they invested in the IMA and the investment bonds. I havent 
been provided with much information about these investments. It appears that more than 
four fifths of the IMA comprised equities  which are prone to volatility. But this was balanced 
to a degree by the remainder being invested in much lower risk treasury stock. And from the 
information that HSBC has provided showing the shares held in June 2000 in the IMA, for 
the most part these appear to have been blue chip stocks, which would generally be seen to 
reduce the level of risk compared to other shares. 
From what the CMC has been able to find out about the bonds Mr and Mrs F were invested 
in, I dont think I can confidently say precisely what level of risk these represented. However, 
its Mr Fs recollection that these were retained until an MVA was no longer imposed. MVAs 
are applied to with profit investments, to ensure that where a bond is encashed early, the 
sum paid out fairly reflects the bondholders asset share in the with profit fund. Mr Fs 
comments about MVAs indicate that the bonds were either entirely or for the most part 
invested in with profit funds. That being the case, it seems likely to me that the investment 
risk relating to the bonds was comparatively low. 
Ive thought very carefully about whether this would mean that the investments HSBC 
recommended for Mr and Mrs F were too risky. This has been a very finely balanced 
decision. Ive kept in mind that Mr F has said that he and his wife wanted only low risk 
investment. But Im mindful that his recollection of exactly what was discussed with HSBC in 
1999 may, completely understandably, no longer be entirely accurate. After so long, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect him (or anyone) to recall word for word exactly what was 
discussed with the manager. And Im mindful that these investments performed well below 
his expectations, which I think will likely have coloured his view about the quality and 
suitability of the advice HSBC provided in 1999. So Ive thought about the bigger picture 
here. 
Mr and Mrs F kept back sufficient savings to provide them with an ample safety net. 
Mr and Mrs F owned their home free from mortgage and had no financial dependents. Their 
savings were enough to generate all the income they needed for their normal spending 
needs and provide some financial support for family members. This allowed them to take a 
risk with investment, safe in the knowledge that investment performance wouldnt impact on 
their day to day spending. I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr and Mrs F didnt take 
income from their investments  although they had the opportunity to do so. 
Im also mindful that when they came out of the recommended funds, they used that money 
to invest in rental property. This suggests to me that, despite saying they wanted low risk, 
the investment risk they had been exposed to was broadly at a comfortable level for them. 
Encashing and reinvesting in rental property led to different types of risk compared to the 
IMA and bond investments, such as liquidity risk. But in my view, it still exposed the available 
capital to some degree of risk. I think it unlikely that Mr F would have had an increasing risk 
appetite and been more willing to take a risk than he had been previously given his 
investment losses and bearing in mind he now had less time to make up this loss. But I think 
the choice of investing in rental properties demonstrated a willingness to take some risk with the capital. I conclude from this that, on balance, he probably wouldve been broadly 
comfortable with the level of risk the recommended investments likely presented in 1999.   
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account what the CMC has said in response to the 
investigators view. But what happened in other cases isnt enough of a reason for me to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Each case is looked at on its own merits and decided 
according to its own particular circumstances. 
Despite what the CMC says about the proportions in which HSBC advised Mr and Mrs F to 
invest, given that Mr and Mrs F still had a very ample cash reserve left, I dont feel they were 
advised to invest too much of their capital. 
And whilst clients investment experience is something that should always be considered, 
the fact alone that someone is an inexperienced investor does not automatically mean that 
only investment in cautious or low risk should be recommended, as Mr and Mrs Fs 
representative seems to be suggesting. This would effectively deprive novice investors of the 
opportunity to make bigger investment gains than they could otherwise achieve, which would 
be unfair and would also unreasonably restrict their investment options.
To sum up, it remains the case that Mr and Mrs Fs attitude to risk in 1999 isnt recorded 
and I cant say with any degree of certainty exactly what Mr and Mrs F understood about 
risk at that time. But keeping in mind Mr and Mrs Fs needs and investment objectives and 
their capacity to absorb some investment loss if necessary, I havent seen enough to be 
able to say the recommended investments were too risky or otherwise unsuitable for them. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr F, but I hope setting things out this way 
helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr Fs representative made the following main comments in repsonse to my provisional 
decision:
Mr and Mrs F had not invested in PEPs so had no previous investment experience
they received investment advice from their former business bankers which they 
thought was very cavalier and this is why they went with HSBC who appeared to 
offer a low-risk approach to investing
saving interest rates were then 5% plus dependant on the type of savings account
there was a need to invest in risk-based investments for growth to counteract 
inflation, but not at this level
the high exposure to shares within the portfolio resulted in the high losses 
Mr & Mrs F were mis-advised to invest £830,000 into shares within the portfolio after 
they had already invested £1.5 million in investment bonds
they purchased 2 properties with guaranteed rental income and potential for capital 
growth based on the properties increasing in value. At the time, this type of 
investment was considered very safe.They kept the rest of their money in cash after 
their experience of investment with HSBC
the advice to invest £2.5 million in risk-based investments was inappropriate and 
should not be mitigated by the fact that they were able to absorb the losses.HSBC confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
I appreciate that Mr F feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure him that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been 
said, including the comments in response to my provisional decision. 
I acknowledge Mr Fs assurance that he didnt have any previous investment experience by 
reason of having ever been invested in PEPs. I approached this complaint on the basis that 
Mr and Mrs F were not experienced investors and acknowledged in my provisional decision 
that they would have been very substantially reliant on HSBCs advice when it came to 
making investment decisions.
I've taken into account that Mr Fs representative still believes that the way to reduce the 
risk on the IMA and still provide the opportunity for capital growth is to increase the 
exposure to Gilts to 60% and reduce the equity exposure to 40%. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that the advice to invest as they did was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs F. 
For the reasons I have set out more fully in my provisional decision, I still dont believe that 
it was.
Ive noted what the CMC has said about Mr and Mrs Fs investment in property and what 
conclusions to draw from this about their attitude to risk, bearing in mind they also moved 
the rest of their capital at this time into cash. This doesnt affect my overall view. 
Capacity for loss was one of the considerations I kept in mind when assessing suitability. 
I have not found (and I am not suggesting) that simply being in a position to absorb 
investment loss would be a good enough reason not to uphold a complaint if the investment 
advice had been unsuitable.  
Mr F hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case 
and in my provisional decision I have addressed all the points raised which have a bearing 
on the outcome. 
 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and the 
estate of Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman