DRN-4006018
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax treated them unfairly 
when it declined their request to port their mortgage in March 2022.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had an existing mortgage with Halifax on their property in March 2022  this 
included an initial mortgage taken out on their previous property in 2017, and further lending 
from when they purchased their next property in 2019. Both elements had a fixed interest 
rate period which was subject to early repayment charges (ERCs) until June 2022 and June 
2024 respectively.
In March 2022, Mr and Mrs W wanted to downsize and repay a help to buy loan they had. 
They contacted Halifax as they wanted to re-mortgage with it on their next property to avoid 
incurring ERCs.
Halifax let them know they could arrange a new product with it on their existing property at 
the end of the fixed interest rate period, but that if they wanted to apply for a new mortgage 
on a different property they would need to undertake a credit check.
Halifax declined Mr and Mrs Ws March 2022 mortgage application based on their credit 
score. Mr and Mrs W wanted to appeal this decision to Halifaxs underwriters, but Halifax 
said they didnt meet its criteria for this. It said that where a customers application is 
declined due to their credit score, it can only refer the matter to its underwriters if the 
mortgage being applied for isnt higher risk than their current mortgage in terms of the loan 
amount or loan to value (LTV).
Mr and Mrs W said it made financial sense for them to downsize and repay their help to buy 
loan. They didnt think it was fair that Halifax wouldve let them arrange a new product on the 
same property but not a new property. Mr and Mrs W say Halifax hasnt taken proper 
account of their help to buy loan when calculating their LTV.
Mr and Mrs W re-mortgaged with a different lender and incurred ERCs  they say that 
Halifax was wrong to decline their application and so they shouldnt have to pay the ERCs. 
Halifax didnt uphold their complaint; it explained why Mr and Mrs W didnt meet its criteria to 
have their application reviewed by an underwriter and said it had applied the ERCs in line 
with its mortgage terms.
When Mr and Mrs W complained to our service the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
They thought Halifax had acted fairly when it declined Mr and Mrs Ws application and 
applied the ERCs.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, so the matter was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on 3 March 2023 explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
In summary, I didnt think it would be fair for me to conclude Halifax should have approved 
the porting request in the circumstances or that Halifax had made an error in applying the 
ERCs to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage.
Halifax accepted my findings, but Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. In summary they said:
The help to buy loan was a first charge on the property and so the proportion of the 
property it affected should have been taken into account when the LTV was 
calculated.
Their move did immediately reduce their monthly outgoings as their bills such as 
council tax and utilities were lower on their new property. 
In relation to the ERC, Mr and Mrs W said theyd moved just a few days before the 
fixed term was due to expire, so the interest payments would have been significantly 
lower than what they were charged.
The matter has now been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including considering Mr and Mrs Ws further points, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifaxs decision not to allow Mr and Mrs W to port their existing mortgage to a new 
property.
When Mr and Mrs W made their request to port their mortgage to a new property, Halifax 
assessed the affordability of Mr and Mrs Ws request and declined it on the basis that they 
didnt meet its lending criteria. There was adverse information on Mr and Mrs Ws credit 
report and in 2019 Mr and Mrs W had missed two mortgage payments. Halifaxs system 
automatically declined Mr and Mrs Ws application based on their credit score.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage terms explain that when making a request to take a product rate 
to a new property, this is a new loan which would be assessed in line with Halifaxs lending 
policy at that time.
However, the rules of mortgage regulation  the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules 
(MCOB), which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook - explain, at 
MCOB 11.6.3 that a lender doesnt have to undertake an affordability assessment for an 
existing borrower where there isnt a change to the mortgage contract which is likely to be 
material to affordability. In this case Mr and Mrs W werent asking for any additional 
borrowing or to change the term of their mortgage, for example, so on the face of it their 
request to port their mortgage wouldnt have been a material change to affordability.
So, I think Halifax ought to have considered Mr and Mrs Ws request more fully rather than 
declining it based solely on affordability. However, this doesnt necessarily mean it ought to 
have approved the request.
Affordability isnt the only consideration for a lender when considering mortgage applications. 
Halifax is allowed to consider its own risk appetite when reviewing a request to port a 
mortgage, but it should also take into account whats in the best interests of its customer as 
part of making this decision.Lenders will want to make sure the property to be mortgaged is good security for the lending 
in case a customer doesnt meet their repayment obligations and the property needs to be 
sold. Thats always a risk as a borrowers circumstances can change during a mortgage 
term. Theres also the risk that property prices may fall and/ or the mortgage balance could 
increase.
When Mr and Mrs W asked for their application to be reviewed by an underwriter, they were 
told they didnt meet Halifaxs internal criteria for this. This was because there was a change 
in risk to Halifax as their LTV would have increased on their new property  so I can see 
there was a mechanism in place to take this application further despite Halifaxs affordability 
concerns if there hadnt been a change to the risk to Halifax as part of this application.
LTV is an important aspect when considering risk because the higher the amount of the 
mortgage relative to the property value, the less equity there is in the property. This means 
that the higher the LTV, the higher the risk the lender wont be able to recover the loan if 
something did go wrong.
In this case, Mr and Mrs W had an existing LTV of 58% (based on what they sold their 
property for in 2022) and they wanted to transfer the product to a property that would give 
them an LTV of 72%. In practice this meant there was almost £90,000 less to act as a 
buffer should it be needed - which is a significant difference.
Its likely this is why Halifax was still willing arrange a new product for Mr and Mrs W on their 
existing property  i.e. because the risk was the same as the existing mortgage it held for 
them.
Ive thought about the reasons Mr and Mrs W gave for requesting to port their mortgage. 
They said they wanted to repay their help to buy loan to reduce their overall debt.
While Mr and Mrs Ws help to buy loan is relevant to their overall financial position, when a 
lender like Halifax calculates the LTV on a property, this affects its risk exposure. And so, 
while Mr and Mrs Ws plan may have reduced their overall indebtedness this doesnt mean 
that the risk to Halifax wasnt higher under the new application. 
I understand Mr and Mrs W dont think this is right, and theyve said their help to buy loan 
was a first charge on their property so they think Halifax should have taken it into account 
when calculating the LTV. However, the help to buy mortgage agreement does explain (in 
Clause 10) that the help to buy charge against the property is secondary to the initial lending 
(i.e. the charge for the mortgage with Halifax). This means that if Mr and Mrs W hadnt met 
their repayment obligations and the property had been sold on this basis, Halifax would have 
been entitled to repayment from the proceeds ahead of the help to buy loan being repaid. 
And so, the help to buy loan didnt affect the risk to Halifax as a lender.
Mr and Mrs W have confirmed they werent in financial hardship at the time of the request 
and that they werent making monthly repayments towards the help to buy loan. This means 
(in relation to the mortgage with Halifax and their help to buy loan) porting wouldnt have 
reduced their monthly outgoings beyond the £1 a month they were paying towards a 
management fee.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W say their bills would have been lower as a result of the 
move, but they havent provided the detail of this, and as Ive said, they werent in financial 
hardship at the time but rather they were anticipating potential issues in the future.
Mr and Mrs W have also said interest would have been applicable to their help to buy loan 
from April 2024. But I note this is only a couple of months before the second fixed rate period applicable to their mortgage expired. So, if Mr and Mrs W had waited until July 2024 to move 
or re-mortgage, no ERC would be applicable.
Mr and Mrs W confirmed that the time sensitive nature of their move was linked to their 
vendor and the incentives available with that developer, rather than any existing financial 
pressures. I also note Mr and Mrs W were able to get a mortgage elsewhere, so Mr and 
Mrs W did have options.
I havent seen any persuasive evidence to conclude that an underwriter  who would have 
needed to weigh up the risks to Halifax as a lender and balance this with the interests of 
Mr and Mrs W  would be likely to have, or ought to have, reached a different decision in the 
circumstances. This is because I dont think the circumstances Mr and Mrs W have 
described outweigh the risks Halifax has identified to it as a lender.
So, I think it was for Mr and Mrs W to weigh up the pros and cons, including any applicable 
ERCs, when making their decision to move. And I dont think it would be fair for me to 
conclude Halifax should have approved the porting request.
For clarity, I dont think that by agreeing to pass on Mr and Mrs Ws feedback internally 
(about how help to buy loans are taken into account when calculating LTVs) means that 
what Halifax has done in this case is inherently unfair.
Halifaxs application of an ERC to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage terms, as set out on the mortgage offer and mortgage illustration 
provided to Mr and Mrs W, explain the ERCs applicable to their fixed rate periods and how 
these work.
Halifax has applied the ERCs in line with Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage terms. This is not a 
penalty but rather to cover costs to the lender, for example from raising funds to lend, that it 
will no longer be recouping through interest payments.
This doesnt mean the amount of the ERC will be exactly the lost interest on a particular loan 
based on the time left in the fixed rate period. ERCs need to be a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs of early termination but this can be across a group of mortgages of a similar type.
It was Mr and Mrs Ws choice to move property and re-mortgage before the end of their fixed 
rate period. Whilst this is understandable given the financial incentives and concessions 
related to their new property, this doesnt affect whether it was fair for Halifax to apply the 
ERCs.
Ive explained above why I dont think Halifax made an error which led to Mr and Mrs Ws 
decision to change lender during their existing fixed interest rate period. For these reasons I 
think Halifax has applied the ERCs fairly in the circumstances, and so it isnt required to 
reimburse the ERCs to Mr and Mrs W.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Stephanie MitchellOmbudsman