DRN-2607113
Complaint
Mr D has complained about loans Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. 
He says he was in severe financial difficulties and shouldnt have been provided with these 
loans.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr D with a first loan of £2,500.00 in July 2016. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £189.91. The loan was repaid on schedule in July 
2018. Mr D was then provided with a second loan, also for £2,500.00. This loan was agreed 
on the same terms as Mr Ds first one.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr D and Likely Loans had told us. And he thought 
that Likely Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr D could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans provided Mr D with a loan for £2,500.00 in July 2016 and November 2018. 
These loans had an APR of 89.9% and were to be repaid in 24 instalments of £189.91, 
which meant the total amount to be repaid was £4,557.84. 
Likely Loans says it agreed to    Mr Ds application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr D could to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr D has said 
he was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr D and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has provided a detailed record of the credit 
search information it received as well as a high-level summary. Likely Loans searches did 
show that Mr D had had previous difficulties repaying credit (there were historic defaults) but 
that his commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. 
Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ds debt total at the time of the applications 
was reasonable in comparison to his income and they appeared to be relatively well 
managed. Mr Ds total indebtedness actually appeared to be lower at the time he applied for 
loan two as well. 
Ive also kept in mind that loan two wasnt provided immediately after loan one was repaid 
and it wasnt for a larger amount either. So it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr D might 
have been taking loan 2 because of the effect loan 1 left on his finances. And there isnt 
anything else obvious in either of these applications which lead me to think that further 
checks would have been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Ds actual circumstances dont appear to have been fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. For example, Ive 
seen that he had other outstanding short-term loans, at the time of loan 2 at least, which 
didnt show up on the credit checks Likely Loans carried out. 
Equally I accept that if Likely Loans had gone into the depth of checks Mr D now says it 
should have  such as carrying out checks with multiple credit reference agencies or 
obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it would have seen 
the full extent of Mr Ds difficulties and the reasons for this. 
But the key here is that Likely Loans wasnt providing Mr D with a mortgage. It was providing 
loans for relatively small sums  especially when compared to Mr Ds income. Its only fair 
and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender
did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into the level of checks Mr D is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr D - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ds indebtedness appeared to be reducing rather than increasing 
unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman