DRN-3516820
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax never told them they 
couldnt borrow more money on their mortgage, as their income is paid in a foreign currency. 
They had to pay an early redemption charge (ERC) when they wanted to borrow more.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had an interest only mortgage on their main home, and another mortgage on a 
second property, both with Halifax. Their most recent additional lending was taken in 
September 2015. 
Whilst the complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs E as the mortgages are in both their 
names, all of our dealings have been with just Mr E. So Ill mainly refer to him throughout. 
Mr E said that for many years now, his main income had been paid in a foreign currency. So 
Halifax knew all about where his income came from and how it was paid. 
Mr E said he had fixed the interest rate on this mortgage, most recently in April 2020, and an 
early repayment charge (ERC) applied until 31 July 2023. 
In late 2020, Mr E wanted to borrow more money on this mortgage. He set up a meeting with 
Halifax, which was held in March 2021. Halifax said then that because Mr Es primary source 
of income was not in pounds sterling, he wasnt eligible for additional borrowing or any other 
change in his mortgage (such as an extension, which hed been considering taking). 
Mr E said each time hed fixed his mortgage rate, Halifax had provided what legally was a 
new offer -a new contract he had to accept to get the new rate. Mr E said Halifax should 
have told him then about a change in underwriting criteria which affected him. But he said 
Halifax was now saying it had changed its criteria, some time after he took out the latest of 
the mortgage products he now holds in 2015. And it just said that a product transfer, like a 
new fixed interest rate, was treated differently to new borrowing. 
Mr E said hed had to go elsewhere for the extra borrowing he needed, and that meant hed 
been forced to pay the large ERC on his mortgage. Mr E said he would never have locked 
himself into a further fixed rate mortgage in 2020 if hed been told about the issues with 
future lending then. He wanted our service to tell Halifax to pay back the ERC of £4,121.50 
that he had paid.
Halifax said it had accepted non-sterling income when Mr E applied for these two 
mortgages. But now it would not accept that for any new lending, including further advances. 
And it said it just wouldnt talk about the criteria for extra lending when it was reviewing 
someones existing mortgage. Not unless the customer said they were going to need more 
lending. 
Halifax said it would consider any income Mr E could show in sterling, but not income in a 
foreign currency. And it said Mr E had been properly notified of the ERC, so it wouldnt waive 
this charge.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Halifax had changed its 
underwriting criteria in 2015, in response to the upcoming introduction of the EU Mortgage 
Credit Directive. That brought in new rules on foreign currency mortgages in other words, 
mortgages where the money lent is in a different currency from the income the borrower will 
use to pay it back. The new rules required lenders to put in place safeguards for mortgage 
customers in this position, and many lenders decided to stop providing this sort of mortgage 
at this time. Halifax was one of the banks that had withdrawn from making this lending in 
future, and our investigator said it was allowed to do that. 
Our investigator understood that Mr E felt Halifax should have told him about this change 
when he fixed his interest rate. But our investigator said that a change to interest rates is 
treated differently to a request for more borrowing. Lenders dont have to tell customers 
about their lending criteria at this point. Our investigator said Halifax didnt know that Mr E 
wanted to borrow more money then. 
Our investigator said Mr E had been properly notified of the ERC on his mortgage, and hed 
chosen to move his mortgage elsewhere. So our investigator didnt think Halifax had to 
waive this charge. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said his mortgage was not a foreign currency loan. Those regulations 
only apply to new mortgages. And he said that his loan wasnt going to be repaid wholly or 
in part from the income received or assets held in [a different] currency. Mr E said hed 
always planned to pay off the interest only mortgage with assets held in sterling, and hed 
shown Halifax this. 
Mr E also said if Halifax had wrongly categorised his mortgage as a foreign currency 
mortgage, then it didnt tell him this, and how it would comply with the regulations. He said 
that when new rates were fixed, Halifax should have told him if it did think his mortgage was 
a foreign currency mortgage, because firms are required to give the customer reasonable 
notice, in advance, of  any material change by the firm  to the terms and conditions of 
the regulated mortgage contract, where that change is permitted without the customer's prior 
consent.
And Mr E said he didnt have a choice about moving his mortgage. He needed the additional 
borrowing, so he had to seek that elsewhere, and his only option was a new first charge 
mortgage, which meant paying the ERC to Halifax.
Our investigator agreed that Mr Es mortgage wasnt a foreign currency mortgage. He said 
that in early 2015, when Mr E last asked Halifax for new borrowing, Halifax still offered 
mortgages to customers who were not paid in sterling. But it stopped doing that, later that 
year. And any new borrowing now would be a new mortgage, and would trigger the foreign 
currency mortgage rules. So thats why Halifax wouldnt lend Mr E more money now. 
Our investigator said Halifax had offered to consider sterling income in its letter of 26 August 
2021. Mr E had investments in sterling, but those investments cant be used for mortgage 
affordability with Halifax. And our investigator thought Mr E had chosen to go ahead with his 
renovation project, when he could have waited for the ERC on his current lending to expire 
before raising extra funds. 
Mr E still didnt think that any future lending would have necessarily been a foreign currency 
mortgage. He said he could easily have drawn a substantial sterling income by beginning a 
drawdown from a UK investment he holds. And he said he disagreed that any additional 
lending would automatically have made his loan a foreign currency mortgage. He also felt he 
didnt have a choice to delay the project he needed funds for.Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr E says Halifax should have told him about the changes to its lending criteria, either right 
away when those changes were made, or when he took out a new fixed term product with 
Halifax on his existing lending. I understand why Mr E feels so strongly about this, and Im 
sorry to hear about the frustrating time hes had seeking additional lending. But I dont think 
that what has gone wrong here is Halifaxs fault. Ill explain why I think that. 
Mr Es last new mortgage was taken out in early 2015, before lenders started making 
changes to adjust for the upcoming Mortgage Credit Directive. Neither of the mortgages he 
held with Halifax were foreign currency mortgages, because they were taken out before the 
Directive and its implementing UK law was in force. 
Mr E says hes fixed the interest rate on his lending since then, and thats a new contract, so 
he should have been told about relevant changes at that point. But the new product 
documentation Ive seen for Mr Es interest rate fix makes clear that a new fixed rate is a 
variation to the existing contract between Mr and Mrs E and Halifax. Its not a new contract. 
So Mr Es existing mortgage didnt trigger the Directive requirements when he changed the 
rate  its not new lending. 
Mr E says Halifax could and should have told him at this point that he couldnt have further 
lending with it. But I wouldnt have expected Halifax to raise this issue with Mr E, entirely 
unprompted. If Mr E had suggested he was likely to need additional lending in future, then 
that might well be different, but Mr Es never suggested he told Halifax about his upcoming 
need for additional borrowing when he was fixing a new interest rate. 
Im satisfied that when Mr E did discuss additional lending in 2021, Halifax correctly 
identified that his monthly mortgage payments would be drawing on an income paid to him in 
a foreign currency, so this would be both a new mortgage and caught by the foreign 
currency mortgage rules introduced by the Directive. Halifax had by then withdrawn from this 
market, and thats a business decision for it to make. So I dont think Halifax did anything 
wrong in turning down Mr E for additional lending at that point. 
Mr E says that the mortgage would have been paid off using his sterling denominated 
investments. But this is an interest only mortgage, and what hes said about his income 
makes me think Mr E may be referring here to how he planned to pay back the capital at the 
end of the term. And the provision Mr E is referring to, which says that mortgages can be 
foreign currency mortgages when the credit is to be repaid wholly or in part from the income 
received or assets held in [a foreign currency] covers repayments not just of the capital, but 
also of the interest. So, unless Mr E could show that he wouldnt be paying any of the capital 
or interest using his foreign currency income, I think that any new lending granted to him in 
2021 would be likely to be a foreign currency mortgage. 
Mr E also said that he could easily have changed his income arrangements, to provide an 
income stream in sterling. Its up to Mr E how he wants to structure his income, but I wouldnt 
expect Halifax to suggest this to Mr E.Mr E thought Halifax should pay back the ERC hed been forced to pay when he moved his 
mortgage elsewhere. But I can see that Mr E was properly notified that he would have to pay 
an ERC if he moved this lending before the end of his fixed interest rate period. And I dont 
think it was Halifaxs responsibility to alert him to issues with any future lending, before he 
asked about that. So I dont think Halifax has to pay this money back now.
I know that Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed, but Ive considered the points Mr E has raised 
carefully, and I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman