DRN-2770917
The complaint
Mr S in unhappy with the customer service and delays when he applied for a balance 
transfer to move his credit card balance to Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
On 22 September 2020 Mr S applied for a credit card with Barclays and wanted to transfer 
his balance from another credit card.
Mr S received some communication about the transfer straight away, but then he didnt 
receive a card or hear anything further. He chased Barclays on a number of occasions but 
wasnt given any clear update about the card. 
Mr Ss balance transfer was accepted on 10 October 2020 and completed on 12 October 
2020. By this time Barclays had sent out three cards and cancelled two of them. And Mr S 
had spent hours on the phone and online chat to Barclays trying to resolve the issue and 
complete the balance transfer.
Mr S complained to Barclays about the service hed received. He was unhappy with the time 
it took for the transfer to go through as well as the lack of meaningful updates hed received. 
Barclays didnt uphold his complaint as it said it had no record of the balance transfer being 
requested before 10 October 2020. It said Mr S needed to complete some steps for this to 
go through and he hadnt done these. Mr S disagreed and brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. He agreed Barclays hadnt kept Mr S updated with 
the progress of the balance transfer and hadnt been clear with its communication. For 
example Barclays told him that the transfer was delayed due to Mr S not responding to 
security checks via text, but Mr S provided evidence he wasnt asked for further information. 
Barclays agreed to waive the balance transfer fee and award Mr S £100 in compensation. 
Mr S rejected this offer and said hed accept no less than £300 compensation, plus a refund 
of the fee. So the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties now agree that mistakes were made in the setting up of this new card. And that 
this led to delays and poor customer service for Mr S. So I dont need to make a finding on 
this. The issue left for me to decide is what level of compensation is appropriate for these 
delays.
Mr S has said he doesnt see the balance transfer fee as compensation, as he was promised 
by Barclays that hed receive this back before he approached our service. However, 
Barclays disputes this and the notes Ive seen suggest the advisor said the fee was likely to 
be waived on investigation of the complaint  not guaranteed. And Barclays has explained 
that it then wasnt initially waived as on first investigation it didnt consider it had made an 
error. Now it has accepted a mistake was made, it is willing to offer this. As this is 
compensation that wasnt on offer before, but is now, I am factoring into my decision.
To make this balance transfer Mr S was required to pay the fee of £249.93. And Barclays is 
now offering him £100 compensation in addition to refunding this fee, so a total of £349.93. 
Ive considered whether this offer is enough to compensation Mr S for what happened  and 
I think it is. I accept he spent a number of hours on the phone and using the online chat to try 
and get the transfer to go through. And Barclays communication about this was unclear. 
However I also have to factor in that the transfer went through in under three weeks. So 
while there was a delay, I cant say it was substantial. Mr S wouldve had to pay the transfer 
fee had it not been for the delay. And it does seem in part due to some issues outside 
Barclays control, as the first two cards were sent to the correct address but returned. While 
Mr S was concerned about this Ive seen no evidence of a data breach and cant hold 
Barclays responsible when it correctly addressed the cards.
I accept the balance transfer shouldve gone through quicker than it did and Barclays 
communication with Mr S shouldve been much clearer, so he spent less of his time of this 
issue. But I think compensation of £349.93 is sufficient to compensate Mr S for this. So Im 
not directing Barclays to pay him anything extra.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should arrange to refund Mr S his balance transfer fee of £249.93 
and it should also pay him £100 in compensation in addition to this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
arrange to make the payment above within 28 days of Mr Ss acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman