DRN-1808025
The complaint
Mr G complains that Allianz Insurance Plc failed to make a promised payment which meant 
his contractors werent available to complete repairs to his home. Mr G wants Allianz to pay 
for the repairs and reimburse him for removal and accommodation cancellation fees.
What happened
Mr Gs home suffered damage from an escape of water on 27 February 2017. He got the 
leak fixed and claimed to Allianz saying he would arrange for quotes for the repairs.
Mr G said Allianz agreed to his own contractor as Allianzs wouldnt guarantee they wouldnt 
damage his property. He said Allianz promised payment for about six weeks, but it was 
received too late for the planned start of the works, and full payment is still outstanding. Mr G 
also said hed incurred expenses for removal and accommodation cancellation charges 
which Allianz has refused to pay him. He said hes since requested Allianz to take over the 
works, so that he didnt have to project manage them, but he hadnt received a response.
 
Allianz said Mr G declined to use Allianzs contractor and it told him he should provide two 
comparative quotes. Mr G said hed been given no alternative. Allianz said Mr G provided a 
quote for repairs at £4,500.74. It said it told him on 28 June 2019 that £3,872 could be paid 
for the works as agreed, with a further £425.46 for storage fees. Allianz said on 5 July 2019 
Mr G asked that the cheque be cancelled and a bank transfer arranged. Allianz said it waited 
for the cheque to be stopped before transferring the money. Allianz said it could still appoint 
its contractor but would need the payment to be returned and this could prolong the claim.
Allianz said Mr G contacted it throughout July 2019 to chase the payment, receiving it on 31 
July. Mr G said the delay meant his contractors werent available to complete the works. 
Allianz said the payment was in Mr Gs account before the repairs were due to start and so it 
wasnt responsible for the cancellation of the work. It said it wouldnt accept any costs to do 
with a holiday because this didnt form part of the claim. Allianz apologised for the delay in 
reviewing Mr Gs quote and making the payment and paid him £100 compensation. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said Mr G wanted to use his 
own contractors and when payment was agreed on 28 June 2019 he made arrangements 
including for alternative accommodation and removal while the work was to be carried out. 
He was told many times payment would be made but when it arrived on 31 July 2019 he 
couldnt pay his contractors for materials required before the work was to start. 
The investigator said Allianz agreed to use its contractors if Mr G returned the payment. Mr 
G asked for a breakdown of what he should repay as hed already paid for some work, and 
floor repairs will cost of around £2,000. But Allianz said hed need to return the full payment. 
She said Allianz should tell Mr G how much it will cost to fix his flooring and he should repay 
this amount. She said Mr G should be repaid his costs in cancelling the repairs. He said Mr 
G should be paid £200 more compensation as nothing has progressed since Allianzs offer.
Mr G asked for his complaint to be reviewed and the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Allianzs decisions and handling of Mr Gs claim to see if it has treated him 
fairly and if not what it should do to put things right.
Problems arose when Allianzs payment to Mr G was delayed for over a month. I can see Mr 
Gs frustration about this, and I dont agree with Allianz that it arrived in time to allow the 
work to proceed as planned. I think Mr G having to pursue the payment as the start of his 
work approached caused him a degree of stress and inconvenience, particularly when his 
contractor was then unavailable. And I think, in the circumstances, Allianz should have made 
the payment a priority. I can also understand Mr Gs wish for Allianz to take over the 
management of the repair work so as to prevent any recurrence of the difficult experience he 
endured previously.
Turning to the customer service Mr G received, Ive seen that hes been promised calls that 
he hasnt received and sent emails that havent been responded to. Allianz has apologised 
for its poor claims handling and offered £100 compensation, but not much progress has 
been made in the months since then. I agree with the investigator that the impact of the 
delays, in particular, on Mr G means that overall he should receive compensation of £300. 
This means Allianz should pay him further compensation of £200.
Moving forward, Mr G would now like to use his own contractors to do the repairs but fears 
another delayed payment by Allianz. Allianz has told him he can appoint his own contractor 
and send a quote which it will look to approve immediately. Allianz said any difference in the 
costs between this and its estimate will be reviewed immediately along with accommodation 
costs. 
I understand that Allianz is now waiting for Mr G to provide an estimate for the work from his 
contractor. From what Allianz has said once this is received the claim should proceed quickly 
to completion. I would expect Allianz to quickly settle outstanding heads of claim such as Mr 
Gs accommodation and removal costs from the abortive work last year. If he hasnt already, 
Mr G should provide Allianz with the invoices for this.
I would expect Allianz and Mr G to work together to arrange repairs to his flooring and adjust 
the payment hes received accordingly. It remains open to Mr G to bring a further complaint 
about unresolved issues to do with his claim if he should need to. But I hope that his long-
running claim will conclude successfully soon.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr G a total of £300 compensation for the impact of the 
poor service he received. Allianz Insurance Plc may deduct the £100 compensation from this 
amount if this has already been paid to Mr G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman