DRN-3314740
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading as Audi Financial
Services) (AFS) treated her unfairly because it wont acknowledge that she paid for service,
maintenance and tyres to be included in a contract hire agreement.
What happened
Mrs S took out the hire agreement (HA) with AFS in July 2020. The advance payment was
About £1,620 and Mrs S agreed to pay monthly rentals of around £540 over the course of 
the four year agreement. Mrs S says these payments include an element for service, tyres 
and maintenance (SMT) and she was entitled to reclaim some tax on that. Shortly after she 
took out the HA, Mrs S asked AFS for a breakdown to show the SMT part and shes 
unhappy that AFS provided inconsistent information at first and then took months to respond 
properly  before telling her (in January 2021) that SMT wasnt included in the cost.
AFS accepted some boxes in the HA that refer to SMT are ticked but it says the dealer
made a mistake - the associated cost wasnt actually added to the price and theres a nil
amount showing for this in the HA. AFS offered to add SMT for the duration of the 
agreement - at no additional cost to Mrs S  as goodwill gesture and doesnt think it should 
have to do more. AFS suggested that Mrs S could add SMT to the HA retrospectively - at an 
additional cost of £32 a month plus VAT - if she still wanted to reclaim the tax.
Mrs S didnt think that was fair. She says the dealer quoted a monthly cost of £532 initially
for hire, service and maintenance but not tyres. Then, having realised the steering wheel in
the sourced car had a higher specification, offered to include tyres (as well as service and
maintenance) plus the steering wheel for about £8 a month more than the previous quote.
Mrs S didnt ask for this particular steering wheel  which the dealer told her would cost 
about £5 a month more  but she agreed to accept the car based on the offer. She thinks its
unreasonable to expect her to pay twice for SMT and she wants AFS to acknowledge that 
this was included from the outset.
One of our investigators considered the evidence. She accepts Mrs S intended to have SMT
included as part of the HA - as this option is ticked on the face of the agreement. She also
acknowledges there is a quotation that shows separate amounts for basic hire and service
and maintenance. But she doesnt think this should override whats set out in the HA itself.
Shes satisfied that two boxes in the agreement - dealing with service and maintenance
charges - contain a nil amount. Shes not persuaded that Mrs S is already paying for
SMT. And she considers AFSs offer to include SMT at no additional cost is fair. She doesnt
recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs S didnt agree. She asked for an ombudsman to review the matter and says (in
summary):-
she trusted the dealer so she didnt ask for a revised quotation after the steering
wheel and tyres were added to her original quote;
the boxes for SMT were ticked in the HA, she had no reason to think this wasnt 
included and she assumed the reference to optional maintenance charges at nil 
cost related to different products that she hadnt opted for;
AFS consistently assured her that SMT was included in the HA and initially said it
simply didnt provide the sort of breakdown she wanted for tax purposes  when 
shes aware (from other finance agreements) that it does;
a third party garage did some work on her car in Autumn 2020 under the SMT
element before AFS offered to add SMT as a goodwill gesture  so this must have
been part of her HA already; and
after she received the investigators view she contacted the supplying dealer who
said there was no mistake and confirmed SMT was included since inception.
Having considered the evidence available I was minded to uphold this complaint. I issued a 
provisional decision on November 2021 to let the parties see my provisional findings and 
make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. What I decided 
provisionally - and why  is set out below and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
After the matter was referred to me, I requested some additional information and AFS
queried whether this complaint fell within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman
Service. I explained why I thought it did in correspondence sent to the parties. And AFS
confirmed it accepts that and has no further objection to us looking into Mrs Ss complaint.
The role of this service is to resolve disputes between financial businesses and their
customers informally. Im not a regulator and I dont have the power to investigate the way
AFS runs its business on a day to day basis. My job here is to consider the evidence
provided by both parties (without taking sides) along with relevant law and industry guidance
(amongst other things) and decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in all of the
circumstances.
I think the crux of this complaint is whether the amount Mrs S agreed to pay under the HA
includes the cost of SMT. Mrs S says she was told that it did  at a monthly cost of about
£30 on top of basic hire - and shes out of pocket if she cant prove that in order to reclaim
tax on this payment. AFS, on the other hand, says the dealer made a mistake so, whilst
relevant boxes in the HA are ticked to say SMT is included, the associated cost wasnt
added.
If the dealer simply got the price wrong then Id expect AFS to have realised that fairly
quickly  especially when Mrs S asked for confirmation of how much she was paying for
SMT shortly after she took out the HA. Instead, AFS confirmed (in an email it sent her in
September 2020) that SMT was included - at the specific cost of £31.19 a month. I 
appreciate AFS subsequently told Mrs S that the sender of this email also made a mistake
and SMT was not, in fact, included. But, it looks as if there was some significant confusion
about this for several months as I understand work done by a third party garage in the
Autumn of 2020 was covered under the SMT element - which seems surprising if this wasnt
included in the HA at that time.Ive considered the HA itself to see what that says about SMT. I can see two tick boxes 
maintenance included and maintenance excluded - on the left of the first page - under the
headings key financial information and maintenance options. Im satisfied the
maintenance included box has a tick beside it. Underneath that it says, if maintenance is
included tick this box to apply and directly underneath theres another three boxes for
service, maintenance and replacement tyres. Im satisfied all three of these are ticked to
confirm that SMT is included.
I think this suggests, at the very least, that the parties intended for SMT to be included in the
HA. In fairness, I dont think AFS disputes that now (although it hasnt always been
particularly clear about this in correspondence). But, AFS points to information set out on the
right side of the first page (in the same box headed key financial information) where theres
a nil charge for both initial optional maintenance and subsequent optional maintenance.
AFS says this shows that the cost of SMT wasnt actually added.
Im not persuaded it's that straightforward. If SMT charges werent included in the HA, its
difficult to see why theres a date for maintenance charges to start - and the number of such
charges - set out directly underneath the nil amounts. I can also see that the monthly cost
and advance payment required for basic hire  as quoted to Mrs S in June 2020  have
increased by £84.57 and £28.19 respectively in the HA. I think this increase seems strikingly
similar to the cost of adding SMT provided by both the dealer and AFS to Mrs S - in June
and September 2020 - so I asked AFS about that.
AFS says changes in specification between the June quote and Mrs S taking out the HA
explain the difference in price - and the quote dated 26 June was only one of several
quotations provided at the relevant time. I asked for sight of these additional quotations but
the dealer was unable to supply any. The dealer said they cant be printed off due to the
passage of and supplied a screenshot instead. I accept this shows three undated
interactions of some sort with Mrs S but it tells me nothing about changes in specification or
price. The dealer said it would try and retrieve the additional quotes from archived paperwork
but nothing else has been provided.
Mrs S says the June quotation is the only one she received. She acknowledges there were
two changes to the specification during her discussions with the dealer. She says the first
related to wheels and the related price difference was already included in the quote provided
on 26 June. The second cropped up when the dealer realised the car had a better steering
wheel and she was told this would cost about £250 and add about £5 a month to the original
quote. As she hadnt requested the upgraded steering wheel, the dealer offered to include
this plus service, maintenance and tyres (at a reduced rate) for another £8 a month. And,
believing shed be able to offset the SMT payment against tax, Mrs S accepted the increase.
I find Mrs Ss evidence to be credible and consistent. She supplied additional evidence every
time weve asked for it and made relatively detailed submissions throughout. I think she
seems to have a fairly good recollection of events and I consider what she says happened
here is generally supported by the paperwork and the other evidence Ive seen, in that 
three relevant boxes in the HA are completed to confirm that SMT was included;
the price increase between the quotation dated 26 June 2020 and the HA seems
consistent with the inclusion of SMT  both the advance and monthly payments
appear to have increased by amounts that closely correspond to figures quoted by
 dealer and ASF for SMT; and
a third party was paid for work done under the SMT element in Autumn 2020; and
Ive seen nothing (aside from the £5 or so a month for the steering wheel that Mrs S
told us about) that explains why changes in specification resulted in an increase inthe advance and monthly payments between the June quote and the HA - despite
requesting further information and allowing additional time for this to be provided.
I cant be certain what happened here exactly. On balance, I think the evidence suggests
that the cost of SMT was probably included in this HA. But, if Im wrong about that - as AFS
suggests - the I consider the terms of the HA were misrepresented.
Im satisfied this service can look at what was said in pre-contract negotiations in this
complaint about AFS under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And, for the
reasons Ive set out above, I think its likely the dealer told Mrs S that SMT was included  at
an additional cost on top of basic hire. And Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for her to
rely on that when she decided to take out this HA.
Mrs S works in the financial sector and she told us she always takes out the service and
maintenance element when she hires a car. She said she has done so for many years and
one of the main reasons she accepted this particular HA was because it offered a specific
tax advantage  she would be able her to claim back 100% of the VAT on her service and
maintenance payment. I think that sounds plausible. And I am minded to find Mrs S is
unlikely to have entered into this particular finance agreement if she hadnt been told that
SMT was included.
Where a misrepresentation has been made wed usually require the business to take steps
to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in if that hadnt happened.
So, one option here might be to require AFS to cancel the HA and take the car back. Ive
seen nothing to suggest that Mrs S is unhappy with the car - or any other aspect of the HA
for that matter and I dont think thats a fair or proportionate remedy overall.
I have thought about AFSs offer to add SMT retrospectively - at no additional cost. But, I
dont think thats reasonable - as Mrs S would still be out of pocket in that shed be unable to
reclaim the tax anticipated at the outset. I dont think its right that Mrs S should lose out
financially in this situation. So I also considered whether it would be fair for AFS to add SMT
at no cost in line with the offer and reimburse Mrs S for the tax refund shes lost out on. I
suspect it may be difficult to work out how much tax is likely to be refunded over the life of
the agreement with any certainty and Im not persuaded this would provide an appropriate
remedy in the circumstances.
Taking everything Ive seen so far into account, I am minded to find it would be fair and
reasonable for AFS to re-structure the HA to include the cost of SMT from the outset. AFS
will then be able to supply the relevant paperwork to Mrs S for her tax records and she can
reclaim any tax due as appropriate.
Its clear that Mrs S feels frustrated and shes been very anxious about what happened. I can
see she considers AFS has prolonged matters unnecessarily - by providing conflicting and
confusing information at times - and it took far too long to provide a proper response to her
complaint. She indicated in her complaint form that she would like AFS to apologise in
addition to taking steps to put things right. I dont think an apology thats required (rather
than provided voluntarily) is likely to be particularly meaningful here. I realise Mrs S has
been very concerned to ensure that she was reporting the right information for tax purposes.
I understand thats particularly important to her - in view of the nature of her job especially.
And I think shes likely to have experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of
what happened. So Im minded to find AFS should pay Mrs S £75 compensation in
recognition of that.
I invited the parties to consider what Id said and make further submissions, subject to which, 
I intended to uphold this complaint and require AFS to re-structure the hire agreement to include the cost of SMT within the existing payments, provide relevant paperwork to Mrs S 
for her tax records and pay Mrs S £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.     
The responses received from the parties 
AFS provided some additional information including a quotation that the dealer sent to AFS 
dated 29 June 2020 which does not include SMT. AFS says the cost of SMT was not 
actually included in the agreement. It acknowledges mistakes were made but says it is 
technically unable to reinstate the finance agreement in the way that Ive suggested. As an 
alternative, AFS offered to add SMT (worth about £1,500) for the duration of the HA (at no 
additional cost to Mrs S) and pay Mrs S another £310.56 (based on the £6.50 or so tax shed 
probably have been able to reclaim on SMT of just over £32 a month over 48 months). 
AFS thinks this is fair overall because Mrs S has indicated previously that she didnt intend 
to use the car for business for the life of the HA  meaning she wouldnt be able to reclaim 
tax for the whole time she has the car. 
Having considered what AFS said as well as additional evidence provided, I was minded to 
find AFSs offer was fair and proportionate overall. I contacted Mrs S and explained why. I 
acknowledged shed only received the quote dated 26 June 2020 but I thought it was more 
likely than not the dealer made a mistake. And, whilst I accepted Mrs S was led to believe 
that SMT formed part of the cost of the finance, I was minded to find it probably wasnt 
included in the amount charged. As Mrs S wants to keep the car and shes unlikely to use it 
for business purposes for the duration of the agreement (and wont therefore be in a position 
to reclaim tax for the whole period), I thought the offer was reasonable. I was satisfied it 
means Mrs S will have SMT for the duration of the HA, shes not out of pocket in respect of 
the amount of tax shes likely to have reclaimed and shes compensated for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She said (in summary):-
She feels the crux of this dispute still hasnt been understood, by AFS in particular, in 
that SM was always intended to be included in the contract so the total figure should 
have been re-calculated and apportioned to show the correct SMT element - having 
already shown the SM element at the quotation stage. 
I didnt supply sufficient details of the additional information received from AFS or 
explain why this caused me to change my mind about the outcome; 
The new information I have referred to is dated 29th June 2020 has no bearing when 
her contract was signed three days before; 
This was based on the quote of the same date, which was the only quote ever 
supplied by the dealer for the exact specification and included SM within the total 
monthly cost, this quotation is for £532.80 and included S and M so its illogical to 
suggest that the figure of £540.58 includes no S, M or T; 
AFS said the dealer made errors but it wasnt prepared to change the HA or offer 
financial restitution and she wants an apology - which would go some way to 
restoring the relationship; 
AFS also made errors  it said it wasnt possible to produce a breakdown including 
SMT which is wrong as it has now produced the relevant figures; 
She doesnt accept the HA cant be re-instated - she has seen such alterations made 
previously by AFS; 
the HA had three instalments paid up front plus another 47 monthly payments so 
compensation should be for 50 payments not 48 and the compensation offered is 
insufficient in any event, for the combination of dealer and AFS errors and failing to 
resolve things sooner;She set out to satisfy HMRC and her accounting requirements only but now feels 
compensation should reflect the stress, anxiety and considerable time that she spent 
on the matter; and 
she would like an official letter from AFS stating that her vehicle is covered by full 
SMT for the life of the HA so she doesnt have problems in the future when 
maintenance or repairs are required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out already, I remain of the view the cost of this agreement was 
probably misrepresented. In this situation, I cant require AFS to proceed as if the 
misrepresentation was correct however so Ive considered all of the evidence provided and 
the comments made by the parties in order to decide how best to put things right. 
AFS says it cant re-instate the agreement for technical reasons and I think it has offered a 
fair and proportionate alternative resolution to this complaint. Mrs S has confirmed that she 
wants to keep the car and Im satisfied the offer means she will receive the SMT she 
expected for the duration of the HA and she wont lose out financially - in that shell be 
compensated for VAT shes likely to have been able to reclaim. Ive taken on board what Mrs 
S says about the number of instalments but Im mindful that she told us previously that she 
didnt acquire this car with the intention of business use for the duration of the HA and shed 
probably retire within that period. I appreciate plans change, and I understand the impact of 
the pandemic may mean Mrs S will work for longer than she originally intended, but I cant 
be certain that shell do so for the entire time. 
Taking everything into account, I remain of the view, on balance, that amount offered is more 
than enough to compensate Mrs S for the loss of any VAT shes likely to have reclaimed. 
And I think this is sufficient to include the £75 compensation I was minded to award for 
distress and inconvenience. I realise Mrs S feels she should be paid more in light of her time 
and effort spent pursuing this matter. I have no doubt thats been frustrating. But we dont 
usually make a specific award for someones time - or calculate this using a set amount, like 
an hourly rate. I have considered the impact of what happened and the inconvenience Mrs S 
is likely to have experienced spending time dealing with this matter. And I find AFSs offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Mrs S told us that shed like a letter from AFS that confirms the SMT offer so as to avoid any 
potential issues when she takes to a dealership for work going forward. AFS agreed to 
provide that when the complaint is concluded and I think that sounds reasonable. Im not 
going to require AFS to provide an apology as well for the reasons Ive given already.  
Working out whats fair and reasonable in a situation like this one is not a scientific exercise. 
I realise this decision doesnt provide the outcome that Mrs S wanted and shes likely to be 
disappointed. Mrs S is not obliged to accept what Ive said however and, if she doesnt, then 
it remains open to her to pursue this matter by any other means available.  
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, I think AFSs offer (as 
set out above) is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. And I require Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading as Audi Financial Services) to provide SMT for the 
duration of the HA at no additional cost to Mrs S (and confirm that in writing) and pay Mrs S 
£310.56 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman