DRN-4457185
The complaint
Mr A complains that Yorkshire Building Society, trading as Chelsea Building Society, has 
treated him unfairly by repeatedly taking legal action against him in respect of his mortgage. 
He also complains that the mortgage balance is higher than it should be, because the 
interest rate didnt reduce in line with Bank of England base rate.
What happened
Mr A remortgaged to Chelsea in 2006. He borrowed £62,000 plus fees over a 20-year term, 
on a capital and interest repayment basis. The initial interest rate was fixed at 5.59% until 
June 2008. Interest was then payable at Chelseas standard variable rate (SVR).
Mr A had some difficulties maintaining the mortgage payments over the years, and arrears 
built up from 2019 after he became unemployed.
Chelsea took legal action, and in February 2022 there was a Court hearing. The Judge 
issued a Suspended Possession Order (SPO), requiring Mr A to make the contractual 
monthly mortgage payment plus £39.34 each month, beginning later that month, in order for 
Mr A to remain in his property.
A month later, in March 2022, there was another Court hearing. Chelsea had taken further 
action because Mr A hadnt made the payment required by the February Court Order. He 
had, however, paid slightly more than the right amount just before the February hearing. So 
the Judge amended the February SPO so that the first payment needed to be made by 23 
March 2022. Mr A made that payment. 
On 25 March 2022, Mr A wrote to Chelsea complaining about the interest rate on his 
mortgage. He thought the rate he had been charged was excessive and that reductions in 
the Bank of England base rate should have been reflected in his mortgage interest rate. He 
also later complained that Chelsea was threatening legal action and eviction.
In April 2022, Mr A received notice of eviction. Eviction was scheduled for 19 May 2022. 
Mr A applied to the Court for the eviction to be cancelled, because he had made the 
payments required under the amended SPO.
On 16 May 2022, there was another Court hearing. The warrant for possession was set 
aside, because the Judge agreed that Mr A had made the necessary payments and so Mr A 
hadnt breached the SPO. The Judge also said that Chelsea should provide Mr A with an 
up-to-date statement of account and an explanation if any of the arrears figures it had 
provided were wrong. 
Mr A has continued to make payments in line with the SPO. In response to his complaint, 
Chelsea said the interest rate it had applied to his mortgage was correct, and its SVR isnt a 
tracker tied to Bank of England base rate. It apologised for having continued with legal action 
when it shouldnt have done, said it would look at covering any costs Mr A had incurred as a 
result, and offered him £250 compensation.
Mr A referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator said Mr A 
had complained too late about the interest added to his mortgage more than six years before 
he complained, so we cant consider all of his complaint. She went on to consider the parts 
of the complaint which she thought arent time-barred, and ultimately concluded that Chelsea 
had made a fair offer to resolve Mr As complaint.
Mr A asked for a review. He felt strongly that Chelsea had failed him, and he wanted his 
complaint to be considered in full.
The complaint was referred to me. I found that Mr As complaint about the interest rate 
Chelsea charged on his mortgage before 25 March 2016 was time-barred. I said I can 
consider the interest rate since then, but also bearing in mind earlier rate variations as part 
of all the circumstances of the complaint. I also said that I can consider Mr As complaint 
about Chelseas treatment of him in respect of the mortgage arrears and legal action. I then 
issued a provisional decision about the parts of the complaint I can consider. 
My provisional decision
I came to a different conclusion to our Investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
the parties the opportunity to make any further comments or other submissions they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. My provisional conclusions were as follows:
Ill deal with Mr As complaint points in turn, under two broad headings.
The interest rate
Mr A complains that Chelsea has charged too much interest on his mortgage, because the 
rate it applied was excessive and didnt reflect the level of the Bank of England base rate. 
Mr As mortgage has been subject to Chelseas SVR since June 2008. The SVR isnt the 
same as Bank of England base rate, and Chelsea didnt indicate that it would be. The 
mortgage conditions set out Chelseas entitlement to change its SVR and the 
circumstances in which it might do so. Those included to reflect, in a proportionate 
manner, changes in the Bank of England base rate, to maintain its competitiveness, and 
to reflect changes in its operating costs.
Since 2006, when Mr A took out this mortgage, Chelseas SVR has broadly reduced and 
increased at around the times when Bank of England base rate reduced and increased. In 
the period prior to 2008, the difference between the base rate and Chelseas SVR 
remained constant. In the period between February 2008 and March 2009, the difference 
between the SVR and base rate increased from 1.99% to 5.29%. This period was a time 
of significant change in the wider market as a result of the financial crisis. This impacted 
on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders 
interest rates charged across the market at that time.
Between March 2009 and December 2016, Bank of England base rate remained at 0.5%. 
Chelsea reduced its SVR on a number of occasions, reducing the difference between its 
SVR and Bank of England base rate. From that point on, changes to Chelseas SVR 
largely mirrored changes to Bank of England base rate.
 
In 2010, Chelsea merged with Yorkshire Building Society and it now operates as a trading 
name. Yorkshire has provided this Service with information explaining why Chelseas SVR 
has varied as it has, over time. There is limited evidence available going back that far 
(which is unsurprising), however the evidence that is available indicates that its costs did 
increase at the relevant times. Im satisfied that the SVR had been varied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage, for reasons those terms allowed. Its possible that some of the terms might be 
considered unfair under relevant legislation, but what I ultimately need to decide is 
whether the changes made to the SVR over time have resulted in any unfairness to Mr A. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think they have. I dont find that Chelsea has managed its 
SVR unfairly, or that Mr A has been overcharged interest as a result of the SVR having 
been set at the level it has.
Chelseas treatment of Mr A and legal action
Mr A has struggled to maintain the contractual monthly payments to his mortgage for 
several years, and arrears began to build up from 2019. He has nevertheless been 
making regular payments and paying what he can. He has said that he had an 
arrangement in place to pay Chelsea £450 a month from August 2020 onwards, and he 
was keeping to that agreement.
Chelseas records, however, say that while Chelsea agreed to accept monthly payments 
of £450 for a time, that wouldnt be enough to repay the arrears within the remaining 
mortgage term. Payments at that level only included just over £6 a month towards the 
arrears. Chelsea also wasnt satisfied that Mr A could afford as much as £450, and 
wanted to discuss his financial situation with him to try to come to an affordable solution.
Ive looked very carefully at what both Mr A and Chelsea have said and provided, and I 
think Chelsea made clear to Mr A what its concerns were and why it wanted to understand 
his financial circumstances. It received a completed income and expenditure form from 
Mr A in November 2021, but no payment arrangement was reached after that, and so it 
went ahead with legal action. I dont think Chelseas decision to take this action was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. The mortgage was in arrears and had been for some 
time, and no sustainable arrangement had been reached to repay them in a reasonable 
time.
The first Court hearing was in February 2022, and the resulting SPO required Mr A to 
make the contractual monthly mortgage payment plus £39.34 each month. But the Judge 
didnt take account of a £500 payment Mr A had already made that month, so there was 
another hearing in March 2022, as a result of which the first payment due under the SPO 
was amended from February 2022 to 23 March 2022.
Mr A paid in time but was nevertheless sent an eviction notice and had to go back to Court 
again in May 2022 to have the warrant set aside. Chelsea later explained to Mr A that the 
eviction notice should never have been issued, and the solicitors who were acting on its 
behalf hadnt told it about the March 2022 hearing and the outcome. So Chelsea had 
pressed on with possession action on the basis  wrongly  that Mr A hadnt made the 
payments required under the February 2022 SPO.
Theres no dispute that Chelsea made a mistake. It shouldnt have proceeded with further 
action following the March 2022 hearing. Chelsea has apologised and offered Mr A £250 
by way of compensation. It has also written off all costs involved in issuing the warrant for 
possession and any legal costs arising from it, and said it will consider any costs Mr A 
incurred in challenging the eviction notice.
In the circumstances, I dont think Chelseas offer goes far enough. Its mistake had a 
serious impact on Mr A. Mr A thought he was going to be evicted from the home where he 
has lived for many years and, as well as being caused significant and avoidable upset and worry, he had to go back to Court again to have the eviction cancelled. Its also clear that 
he has lost any trust that his mortgage lender will treat him fairly in future.
Mr A has said that Chelseas treatment of him constitutes discrimination, but I dont find 
anything to support that. I think Chelsea made a mistake and treated him poorly, but I can 
see no basis on which I might fairly conclude that that was because of any particular 
protected characteristic of Mr As. 
In all the circumstances, I consider that £750 would be a fair award in recognition of the 
impact on Mr A of Chelseas mistake. Chelsea has already offered to consider reimbursing 
any costs Mr A incurred as a result of having had to challenge the eviction notice. I think 
reimbursing any such costs is reasonable, and Mr A should provide Chelsea with details 
of any such costs in order that it can do so.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr A said he still felt he had been treated very badly 
and unacceptably by Chelsea. He had been paying more than required, yet Chelsea still 
tried to evict him. He also said he still felt strongly that Chelsea charged him too much 
interest, and it had added legal costs to his mortgage for action taken in 2021 and 2022.
Chelsea accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr As further comments, and having done so I havent changed my 
mind about how this complaint should fairly be resolved.
I recognise that Mr A remains very unhappy about the interest rate Chelsea applied to his 
mortgage and the way it treated him in taking legal action. He has, however, largely 
repeated his earlier arguments about that, and so I see no reason to come to a different 
conclusion to the one set out in my provisional decision. 
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think Chelsea was unreasonable in taking 
legal action beginning in late 2021 given the mortgage arrears and payment arrangements. It 
was entitled to add the resulting costs to Mr As mortgage. It should not have taken further 
court action after the March 2022 hearing and it says it has written off all the costs arising 
from that action. I remain of the view that thats fair, and if there are any such costs which it 
hasnt already written off or refunded, it should refund them now. 
Chelsea made a mistake and treated Mr A very poorly, and I have found that it should 
compensate Mr A for the impact that had on him. I consider that £750 is a fair and 
reasonable award in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Yorkshire Building Society, trading as 
Chelsea Building Society, should pay Mr A £750 compensation. It should also reimburse any 
costs Mr A incurred as a result of challenging the April 2022 eviction notice, on receipt of 
relevant invoices or other evidence of costs which he wouldnt otherwise have had to pay, 
and refund any costs arising from the court action taken following the March 2022 hearing 
which it has passed on to Mr A and which it has not already refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman