DRN-3772371
The complaint
Mr J complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited), declining a claim 
under his buildings insurance policy for damage to his property caused by bad weather. 
References to Accredited include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In January 2022, at the time of Storm Corrie, bad weather damaged the rear part of the roof 
of Mr Js property (and some external waste pipes from a bathroom). Mr J initially tried to 
engage a roofer to repair the roof but couldnt secure one. He then contacted Accredited to 
report the damage and lodge a claim. 
Accredited appointed a firm (C) to inspect the damage and assess the claim. C inspected 
the property but concluded the damage wasnt because of a one-off incident (storm) but due 
to wear and tear. The bad weather at the time of the incident was the occasion of the 
damage  but not the cause.
Based on Cs report, Accredited declined the claim. They said the mineral felt covering on 
the roof appeared to be over 20 years old and past its expected lifespan. There was moss 
growing in open cracks in the roof, which supported their view, as well as evidence of repairs 
to the roof with sealant (suggesting previous issues). Accredited also noted there hadnt 
been any mitigation to the roof or waste pipes, to prevent further ingress of water or damage. 
Based on these points, Accredited confirmed their opinion the bad weather had highlighted 
underlying wear and tear issues  it was the occasion of the damage, but not its cause.
Mr J then complained to this service. He didnt think Accredited had fairly declined his claim. 
The part of the roof damaged had been lifted and landed some distance from the property. 
That the front part of the roof hadnt been damaged, he thought showed the roof was in good 
condition, so the damage was due to the high winds  not wear and tear. He was also 
unhappy at Accredited declining the part of the claim relating to the damaged waste pipes. 
He wanted Accredited to accept his claim and repair his roof and waste pipes. He was also 
unhappy at what he saw was a threat from Accredited to end cover under his policy unless 
he could confirm the damage had been repaired.
As Mr J complained to this service before complaining to Accredited, we asked them to 
consider the issues raised by Mr J as a complaint. But they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
referred to Cs findings and noted an exclusion in the policy that meant damage due to 
gradual causes, including deterioration or wear and tear, wasnt covered. They accepted the 
weather at the time of the incident constituted storm conditions, but thought it wasnt the sole 
cause of the damage and merely highlighted the need for maintenance. 
On the issue of what Mr J considered to be a threat to cancel his policy, Accredited referred 
to a policy condition requiring the property to be maintained in a good state of repair and for 
all reasonable precautions to be taken to safeguard the property. They said the damage 
from the incident meant the property wasnt in a good state of repair. Which is why (through 
Mr Js broker) they asked him to discuss his plans to carry out the repairs (given they had 
declined the claim). Were repairs not carried out, this would mean the policy condition 
wouldnt be complied with  and could lead to policy cancellation. Accredited noted repairs 
had subsequently been carried out.
Our investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it, concluding Accredited 
had acted fairly. He thought there were storm conditions at the time of the incident and the 
damage was consistent with storm damage. On the issue of whether the damage was due to 
the storm, or to pre-existing issues, he thought the high winds highlighted existing issues 
that had built up over time, so the roof was suffering from wear and tear. On the question of 
whether Accredited had threatened to stop providing cover, he thought the policy condition 
requiring the property to be maintained to ta good state of repair meant it was reasonable for 
Accredited to request confirmation that the damage had been repaired.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In doing so, he raised several points. First, the age of the roof was only one 
consideration  the points hed made about the condition of the roof should also be 
considered. The high winds had picked up the roof and blown it some distance away  
something witnessed by a third party. He also thought the point Accredited made about 
previous repairs indicated the roof had been maintained in a good condition. He didnt think 
the damage to the pipes had been considered (nor by Accredited). He also disagreed with 
the investigators conclusions about whether Accredited had threatened to cancel his policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Accredited has acted fairly towards Mr J.
The main issue in Mr Js complaint is that Accredited unfairly declined his claim, on the 
grounds that while there was bad weather at the time of the incident, it wasnt the main 
cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues (wear and tear) with the roof. 
As such, the bad weather was only the occasion of the damage, not its cause (it only 
highlighted pre-existing issues). Mr J doesnt agree, saying the damage was caused by the 
storm. He says the roof was in good condition and had resisted previous storms (including 
Storm Arwen in November 2021).
On the main issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from pre-existing issues, 
there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response Accredited accept the weather at the time of the 
incident constituted storm conditions (they refer to a wind speed of 61mph). Data from a 
weather service in Accrediteds case notes confirm this, along with a description of Storm 
force gusts around 1000. The data from the weather firm this service uses also indicate 
storm conditions at the time of the incident, with a maximum gust of 83mph and a description 
of the conditions as Dry Storm. So, Ive concluded there were storm conditions present 
around the date of the incident. On the second question, the photographs indicate the flat roof has been blown off, revealing 
the boards underneath. And the waste pipes are missing. Ill consider what may have 
caused the latter damage later. But, both are types of damage wed expect in a storm, 
particularly high winds. So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with that a storm 
typically causes.
The third question is therefore key, where Mr J and Accredited disagree. Ive considered 
both views carefully, together with the report from C and the opinion of Mr J and the 
photographs taken of the property and the roof. Ive also considered the further 
representations made by Mr J in response to Accrediteds final response and to our 
investigators view. Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded Accredited acted 
fairly in declining Mr Js claim. I know this will be disappointing to Mr J, so Ill set out why Ive 
come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as 
Accredited have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at 
the available information and evidence, I think Accredited have done so in the specific 
circumstances of this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, Accredited refer to the following policy exclusion, in the General 
Exceptions Which Apply to the Wole of Your Policy section:
7. Any claim resulting from:

Gradual causes including deterioration or wear and tear;

Accredited also refer to Cs report, which states:
Although there is a reasonable degree of pitch to the garage/utility roof, it has been 
covered with a green mineral felt covering (approx 25 years ago) and could be 
considered as a flat roof, there is significant wear and tear as would be expected to a 
roof covering of this age.
The report goes on to conclude:
The damage viewed is not a result of a one-off storm event only but due to 
ongoing wear and tear. There is no cover on your policy for wear and tearWhilst 
the recent weather has highlighted this breakdown, it has been the occasion but not 
the cause. It is advised that as the underlying cause of damage is the ageing of the 
materials, there is no cover under the policy.
Ive also considered the photographs of the damage, which I think show evidence of wear 
and tear (including significant water staining from an overflow pipe above the roof). I think 
this is consistent with the findings in Cs report. Mr J maintains the roof was in good 
condition and the sealant repairs indicate this. However, I think the photographs do show 
evidence of wear and tear (as Ive said) and the fact that previous repairs were made doesnt 
change my view.Mr J also refers to a witness to what happened with the roof blowing off. I dont doubt what 
Mr J has said, nor that the witness saw what happened. However, the key issue is not that 
the roof blew off (and was deposited some distance away). Its why the roof blew off in the 
way it did, which comes back to its condition before the incident. As Ive said Im persuaded 
by Cs report findings as well as the photographs.
Mr J also says the roof was in good condition, as evidenced by withstanding Storm Arwen 
towards the end of the previous year. However, while I accept thats the case, it doesnt 
mean the roof hadnt suffered wear and tear. Nor would it mean the roof would have 
withstood bad weather or storms that happened after Storm Arwen (as happened). 
Mr J also says a new roof would have been uplifted in the same way in the incident. 
However, its not possible to know this would have been the case. The issue here is what 
happened to Mr Js roof and the most likely reason for that.
Ive also considered, when Mr J notified Accredited of the damage, he mentions the roof is 
between 20 and 25 years old. Flat roofs are known to have a more limited lifespan than 
pitched roofs with tiles, typically up to 15 years. While theres mention of some repairs 
(sealant) by C, then I think its likely the roof would be approaching the end of its lifespan. 
And I think its likely there will have been wear and tear, as well as deterioration. 
On the issue of the waste pipes, Cs report doesnt specifically mention this aspect. And Ive 
not seen any specific mention in the information provided of how that damage may have 
occurred. So, while its not possible to reach a definitive conclusion, given the nature of the 
damage to the roof described by Mr J, I think its reasonable to think the pipes may have 
been damaged by the felt roof coming off. As I think its reasonable for Accredited to have 
applied the exclusion for wear and tear to decline the claim for damage to the roof, then its 
reasonable to also decline the element of the claim relating to the waste pipes.
Based on these points, then Ive concluded on balance that Accredited have shown enough 
that theyve fairly applied the exclusion for wear and tear to decline the claim.
Ive also considered Mr Js concern about what he considers to be a threat by Accredited to 
cancel his cover (policy). I can understand why he may have seen this as a threat, but 
looking at Accrediteds explanation, I dont think its unreasonable. Thats because if  
having declined his claim  the damage wasnt to be repaired, then Accredited would 
potentially have the risk of a further claim for damage from the roof (and waste pipes) not 
being in good condition. But at the same time, Id have expected Mr J to also want to have 
the damage repaired  even though it would have been (and was) at his own expense.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman