DRN-2864928
The complaint
Mrs H has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with A J Bell Management Limited.  
Mrs H thinks that A J Bell should not have allowed her to invest with Stirling Mortimer in her 
SIPP.  That investment is worthless and have been for some time.  Mrs H is unhappy about 
the fees A J Bell have charged in these circumstances and thinks they should be waived.
What happened
Mrs H applied for a SIPP with Skandia in 2008.  A J Bell was the operator of the SIPP.
Mrs H was advised by a regulated financial adviser.  Around £38,000 was transferred into 
the SIPP from a personal pension also with Skandia.  And soon after that Mrs H invested 
£35,000 in a Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund Cape Verde investment fund.  The 
investment was a Qualified Investor fund in the form of a protected cell company listed in 
Guernsey.
By 2010 the investment was worth around £19,000.  Mrs H decided to appoint a new 
adviser.  A J Bell emailed Mrs H to say there was not enough money in the cash account 
part of her SIPP to pay the charges due on the SIPP.  It said it had written to Mrs Hs new 
adviser about this.
In 2011 Mrs H complained to the original adviser.  That complaint was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in 2012 and in 2013 an ombudsman upheld Mrs Hs 
complaint.  He said the advice to Mrs H had been unsuitable and ordered the adviser to pay 
compensation to Mrs H for the losses she had suffered. 
The adviser did not pay Mrs H and soon after went into liquidation in 2014.  Mrs H then 
made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).  
Also in 2014 the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) announced it was making investigations in 
relation to the investment. 
In 2017 the FSCS made an interim payment of around £7,000 to Mrs H. In 2018 the FSCS 
calculated that Mrs Hs loss was just over £37,000 and it paid the balance of the 
compensation due to her. The FSCS calculated Mrs Hs loss by comparing the then value of 
the SIPP (about £10) to the value her pension would have had if it had stayed in the 
personal pension with Skandia (just over £37,000). 
Also in 2018 the SFO announced that it had discontinued its investigation as there was no 
prospect of obtaining sufficient evidence to bring charges.
In 2019 A J Bell contacted Mrs H about payment of outstanding SIPP charges totalling just 
over £4,000.  At first Mrs H thought it was a scam and ignored the demand but when A J Bell 
wrote again Mrs H complained.  A J Bell said the charges were the unpaid SIPP charges 
which had been accumulating since 2010.  A J Bell said it had not been able to close the 
SIPP even though the investment had no value.  It also said that if the investment remained 
illiquid it would not pursue Mrs H for the unpaid charges.
Mrs H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  Mrs H thinks A J Bell 
has treated her unfairly.  She does not think A J Bell should charge its fees as it should 
never have allowed the investment into the SIPP because it was unregulated and banned by 
the FCA.  She also says the outstanding charges were not shown on the annual valuations 
sent each year.
A J Bells position is that it wrote to Mrs H and her adviser several times about the charges 
between 2010 and 2012.  It said the charges did not show on the valuations because there 
was not enough money to pay them, and therefore show a record of their payment.  It said it 
did not consider it was at fault in allowing the investment which was selected by Mrs Hs 
authorised financial adviser and that the charges were due.  While the investment is a 
distressed asset with no current value, it (A J Bell) must still provide an administrative 
service.  It has therefore continued to charge its fees, but it will take no steps to recover 
those charges for as long as the investment remains illiquid.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Hs complaint.  She said that as Mrs H had 
recovered her investment losses in full from the FSCS she would not consider the action 
taken by A J Bell in allowing the investment.  She also explained that she did not think 
A J Bell had acted unfairly in relation to its charges.
Mrs H did not agree with the investigator.  She is not seeking further compensation for the 
investment and is happy with the compensation paid to her by the FSCS.  Her complaint is 
because she thinks hearing about charges of £4,000 after many years was unfair.  She had 
received the email sent to her in 2010 but had assumed, as there was only £10 in the cash 
account, no further fees would be charged.  It does not seem fair to have to either forfeit the 
shares or continue to accumulate charges at nearly £500 a year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In part Mrs H feels the charges are unfair because A J Bell should not have allowed the 
investment because it was an unregulated investment and banned by the FCA.  That is not 
however quite correct.  The FCA had not banned the investment.  There were restrictions on 
the type of investors that type of investment could be promoted to but that is not the same 
thing.  
As Mrs H knows, A J Bell was not her adviser.  Mrs H had her own adviser, and it was his 
role to ensure that the investment was suitable for Mrs H. He was an authorised and 
regulated adviser, and it was reasonable for A J Bell to accept Mrs Hs SIPP application from 
that adviser.
A J Bell carried out checks on the investment to ensure it was appropriate for its SIPPs.   
Although it was a higher risk investment it was a type of investment permitted under HMRCs 
rules for SIPPs.  A J Bell reviewed the structure of the investment and its product literature.  
It was satisfied that the investment was listed on the Channel Islands Stock Exchange and 
regulated by the Guernsey Investment Commission.  From its checks A J Bell was satisfied 
with the custody arrangement for the investment, that it was not a scam or linked to 
fraudulent activity money laundering or pensions liberation and that it could be independently 
valued.Like the investigator, because Mrs H received full compensation from the FSCS I have not 
considered the due diligence carried out by A J Bell in detail.  But I do not think it can be said 
in this case that it was unfair to charge any fees on the SIPP account because the 
investment should not have been permitted.
A J Bell did contact both Mrs H and her second adviser about the charges after the cash 
account no longer had enough money to pay them.  In the circumstances it is not the case 
that no information at all was provided until the charges reached over £4,000. 
Charges are normal for SIPP accounts and were part of the terms Mrs H agreed to when 
she opened the account.  The charges remain payable if the account remains in existence.  
The investment is currently illiquid, and A J Bell is not seeking to recover the charges from 
Mrs H.  Mrs H is not happy to sign over the investment to A J Bell.  So the account 
continues, and A J Bell continues to administer it.  The situation with the charges continuing 
to accumulate also continues.  
I understand that this is frustrating for Mrs H. We do expect businesses, such as, A J Bell to 
treat their customers fairly when applying charges in circumstances like these. However I 
think A J Bells position that it will not pursue the charges so long as the investment remains 
illiquid is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. So in all the circumstances, I do not 
agree that A J Bell has treated Mrs H unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint against A J Bell 
Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman