DRN-2556841
The complaint
Miss Y has complained about Soteria Insurance Limiteds, trading as The Co-operative 
insurance (Co-op), actions following a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Reference to Co-op includes its agents.
What happened
Miss Y was in an accident that wasn't her fault. Co-op assessed the damage to her car and 
told her it was a total loss. It said it could either pay her its pre-accident market value of 
£1,526 and the salvage would become its property, or she could keep the salvage and 
Co-op would pay her £1,218. Miss Y said she might like to keep the car. She told Co-op 
shed look into getting quotes for its repair and get back to Co-op with her decision. Miss Y 
contacted Co-op again a month or so later and it told her it had already sold her car.
Co-op apologised for its mistake, paid Miss B £500 for the impact of that mistake together 
with £1,526 for the cars pre-accident value. Miss Y didn't think that went far enough and 
brought her complaint to us. But she continued to correspond with Co-op. It contacted the 
individual whod bought her car from it to see if it could get the car back. But he refused to 
sell it back.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ys complaint. He noted Co-op had clearly made a 
mistake in selling Miss Ys car against her wishes. But he thought it had already done 
enough to put things right. Miss Y didn't agree so her complaint's been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Miss Ys made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything shes said and everything that's taken place. But in this decision I don't intent to 
refer to every action and issue. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding points. 
Miss Y responded to our investigators assessment of the complaint under a number of 
headings. And, as these seem to set out her key concerns now, I will use similar headings to 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Co-ops final response letter of 8 June 2020
Miss Y said our investigator was wrong to refer to Co-ops letter as a final response letter. 
Im aware Miss Y continued to correspond with Co-op after it had sent this letter. So I can 
understand why she might have thought the use of the term final wasn't right. But it might 
help if i explain that the term final response letter has a specific meaning in connection with 
complaints about financial services. That is, its a business formal reply to a complaint in 
which it offers the consumer the opportunity to refer it to us if they remain unhappy. And I 
can see that Co-ops letter of 8 June 2020 says it is the response to Miss Ys complaint and 
gives her referral rights to us. So while I can understand why Miss Y doesnt think that was 
the final word on the matter, I don't think our investigator was wrong to refer to it as a final 
response letter.
Compensation
Miss Y said that our investigator was wrong to refer to Co-ops £500 payment to her as 
compensation. She said that it was an apology for the impact of its mistakes on her, rather 
than compensation. However, when we use the term compensation we don't limit it to refer 
to, for example, a payment to correct a financial loss or to address pain and suffering. 
Instead we may use it to mean a payment by way of redress for the trouble and upset - or 
distress and inconvenience - that an individual has suffered because of a business 
mistakes. 
And, as Miss Y has acknowledged, the £500 Co-op paid to her was to reflect the impact of 
its mistake in unfairly selling her car. So I think it was reasonable for our investigator to refer 
to this payment as compensation. And I think that was a fair sum in the circumstances. 
The accidental sale of the car
Miss Y said she didn't accept that the sale of her car was accidental or because of some 
technical or human error. She said Co-op should have stringent procedures in place to 
prevent something like that from happening. But I'm satisfied Co-op didn't intentionally put 
itself into a position where it was having to apologise for an error and make a payment of 
£500 to address the impact of that.
Ill explain that after Co-op deemed Miss Ys car a total loss it wasn't under any obligation to 
let her keep the salvage. But Co-op did give Miss B that option. And she didn't authorise 
Co-op to sell her car, which was then still her property. So it clearly shouldnt have sold the 
car without Miss Ys agreement. 
It seems that after Miss Y told Co-op she might want to keep the salvage it should have told 
its salvage agents (who were storing the car) that was the case. And that required the 
manual intervention of a member of Co-ops staff. But, it seems that someone on Co-ops 
team overlooked that step in the process. As a result Co-ops salvage agents thought they 
had the authorisation to sell the car, when that wasn't the case. So the salvage agents went 
ahead and sold it and Co-op only found out about that after Miss Y contacted it. 
I can understand Miss Ys frustration that Co-op allowed that to happen. But I'm satisfied that 
allowing the sale to go ahead was simply a mistake caused by an oversight on Co-ops 
behalf. And as Ive said above, it paid her £500 to address the impact of that mistake. I think 
that's a reasonable response in the circumstances. 
Did Co-op try to get Miss Ys car back?
After Co-op realised its mistake in selling Miss Ys car it contacted the individual whod 
bought it from Co-ops salvage agents, to raise the prospect of buying it back and returning it to Miss Y. I'm aware Co-op hasn't shown Miss Y any proof that it took this action. But I can 
confirm Ive seen correspondence between Co-op and the individual concerned. But Co-op 
can't share that with Miss Y for data protection reasons. However, eventually, the purchaser 
said he didn't want to sell the car back and there was little Co-op could do in those 
circumstances to force him to do so. 
But, even if the purchaser had agreed to sell the car back that might not have been the best 
course of action for Miss Y. The car had suffered significant structural damage in the 
accident. And Co-op had estimated the costs to repair it at over £2,300, considerably more 
than it was worth. So the safety of the repairs that the new owner had carried out would have 
been a cause for concern. And while I believe Co-op felt it was acting in Miss Ys interest 
when it first tried to retrieve the car for her, that might not have been the most sensible 
option given the risks of a substandard repair. That said, as I've said above the matter was 
taken out of Co-ops hands once the purchaser refused to sell it back. 
The policy terms and pre-accident value payment
In his assessment our investigator referred to the terms in Miss Ys policy which say that the 
car would become Co-ops property once it had settled a claim for its total loss. Miss Y said 
those terms shouldnt apply in her case.
Its usual for motor policies to say that the car becomes the insurers property once a total 
loss settlement is made. But as I've said above, given that Co-op offered the car back to 
Miss Y it clearly should have taken steps to make sure it honoured that offer. And had it 
done so, and Miss Y had kept the car, then clearly those terms wouldn't have applied. I do 
understand that Miss Y didn't want the pre-accident value payment, what she was looking for 
was her car back and the funds to repair it. But the policy does allow Co-op to decide how it 
wants to deal with a claim. And, after it had sold the car, although that was in error, there 
was little more it could do than pay her for its total loss and compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused. And that's what it did. So while I can understand this has 
been an immensely frustrating and distressing experience for Miss Y, I don't think Co-op 
needs to take any further action now. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not going to instruct Co-op to take any further action.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman