DRN-3932831
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) sent her letters threatening to remove 
her overdraft. She says the priority should be that she resumes paying her mortgage. 
What happened
Ms A has held a bank account with HSBC for a number of years with an arranged overdraft. 
In June 2022 as part of a review HSBC wrote Ms A and advised that her overdraft is higher 
than itd like and asked to keep her borrowing within a certain limit. Within the letters HSBC 
provided the details of organisations that could provide Ms A with advice about managing 
her money.
Ms A complained to HSBC about the tone of the letters.  HSBC apologised that Ms A found 
the letters heavy handed and explained that overdrafts are an on-demand type of lending 
facility which it reviews on a regular basis and it can be reduced or withdrawn at anytime. 
Ms A was dis-satisfied by this and brought her complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms As concerns and reached the conclusion that HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Ms A unfairly as overdrafts can be reduced or 
withdrawn at any time and its important when making changes that HSBC notify Ms A of 
such changes. 
Ms A disagreed, she wants the letters to stop and that her mortgage payments should be the 
priority. Ms A says she has had the overdraft for at least 10 years and it is inappropriate and 
consumer-unfriendly for HSBC to threaten to terminate the overdraft when she is slowly 
recovering financially.  And so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Ms A is complaining about the letters she received from HSBC following a review of her 
account and overdraft usage. She is particularly unhappy at the tone of these letters. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
banking facilities HSBC is offering Ms A are fair and reasonable. Ultimately, what services a 
bank offers  including how much money it is willing to lend - is a commercial decision. Just 
like it is up to Ms A to decide whether to accept what HSBC is offering or to take her 
business elsewhere. And providing what HSBC are asking is allowed within the terms and 
conditions of the account, it isnt something for me to get involved with. 
The terms and conditions of Ms As account stipulate that an overdraft is an on-demand type 
of lending facility which HSBC review regularly and it can be reduced or withdrawn at any 
time. 
So by asking Ms A reduce her overdraft borrowing HSBC is acting within the terms and 
conditions of the account  and if it wished to do so could request Ms A repay the overdraft 
entirely.
I understand Ms A may be unhappy about being asked to reduce her overdraft or told that it 
can be taken away, but overdraft lending is supposed to be for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing and a bank does have a duty to ensure that any lending it makes is affordable. So 
reviewing a customers borrowing and taking action when its not satisfied its sustainable is 
in-line with what Id expect.
I appreciate Ms A is not happy receiving these letters from HSBC or the tone of them. 
However, my role isnt to advise a business on how to communicate with its customers  this 
is simply not something we would get involved. But HSBC does need to notify Ms A of any 
changes to her overdraft facility and from the letters Ive seen I cant say I agree that there is 
anything wrong with the tone of the letters. HSBC has recorded Ms As feedback regarding 
the tone of the letters which is all Id expect HSBC to do. 
So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint as HSBC has not made an error or done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman