DRN-3502507
The complaint
Mrs A complains that she replaced her boiler unnecessarily after Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) incorrectly diagnosed it as beyond economical repair. Mrs A had Home Emergency 
cover with IPA, provided through her bank.
What happened
Mrs As boiler stopped working so she contacted IPA. Its engineer arrived the same day. Mrs 
A said the engineer told her the cost to repair wouldnt be worthwhile and advised her to get 
a new boiler. 
Mrs As own engineer installed a new boiler, but it didnt work. The engineer carried out 
checks on advice from the manufacturer and, after a short delay, identified that the boiler 
wasnt at fault. The engineer found that only the external pump and wiring was faulty, and it 
was likely to be the cause of the original boiler fault. 
Mrs A complained to IPA that shed had a new boiler installed on advice from its engineer, 
which turned out to be incorrect. She was unhappy that shed paid for a new boiler when the 
pump repair wouldve been much less expensive.
IPA accepted that the pump mightve been the cause of the original boiler problem, but as 
Mrs A used her own engineer thereafter, there was no opportunity for IPAs engineer to 
diagnose the fault. IPA also said it didnt find any evidence that its engineer had advised Mrs 
A to replace her boiler. IPA paid Mrs A £250 towards the cost of her new boiler, which she 
was entitled to under the terms of her policy. It also paid her the remainder of her policy, 
which came to £86. 
Mrs A didnt think it was enough and she wanted IPA to cover the full cost of her boiler.
Our investigator upheld Mrs As complaint. He said if IPA had carried out a thorough check, 
it wouldve found the fault with the external pump and wiring. Our investigator recommended 
that IPA pay the difference between the cost of the boiler and what Mrs A wouldve paid for 
the pump repair. He calculated that to be £1,375. In addition, our investigator recommended 
£100 compensation.
IPA didnt agree. It said if its engineer had been able to attempt a repair, its likely they 
wouldve found the true fault. IPA said the policy didnt provide cover to the level 
recommended by our investigator, and Mrs A wouldve had to pay for the other boiler repairs 
needed.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs As 
complaint, but with a different outcome. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mrs As complaint. However, Im not planning to ask IPA 
to reimburse the full difference between the boiler and repair costs. I realise this will come as 
a disappointment to Mrs A, but Ill explain my reasons.
Mrs A says IPAs engineer advised her to get a new boiler because the repair costs wouldnt 
be worth paying. IPA says Mrs A chose to have a new boiler after it advised her of the repair 
costs, and arranged for her own engineer to instal one. 
Theres no evidence of what was discussed so its impossible for me to say which of these is 
an accurate version of events. So, Ive looked at what is likely to have happened based on 
the evidence that is available, and how IPA handled Mrs As complaint about the boiler to 
determine whether its offer to contribute towards the new boiler was fair and reasonable.
It's clear that IPA thought it could repair the boiler because it confirmed that it would need to 
order a new circuit board, and its notes show the total cost of repair would be over £500. The 
engineer simply recorded that Mrs A decided to get a new boiler. The boiler was around 18 
years old and, while not necessarily at the end of its economic life, its not unreasonable to 
think that paying towards a new boiler was more cost effective than repairing an old one.
Mrs A arranged for her own engineer to instal a new boiler. After the new boiler was 
installed, and didnt work, an external fault was identified. So there was a fault which was 
independent of the boiler, meaning Mrs A neednt have bought a new one. I can see why 
Mrs A found that frustrating. Her outgoing cost couldve been limited to the external repair 
cost alone. 
Ive looked at whether IPA shouldve found the fault before explaining that it needed to order 
a new circuit board, which in turn led Mrs A to instal a new boiler instead of bearing that cost. 
Mrs As engineer didnt identify the true fault either until a new boiler had been installed. That 
diagnosis came after first troubleshooting with the manufacturers help followed by a visit to 
replace the circuit board  the same repair IPA had intended to complete. This tells me the 
fault wasnt readily apparent. IPA didnt have a further opportunity to work on the boiler after 
the initial visit, so I cant reasonably hold IPAs engineer to a higher standard than Mrs As 
engineer or the boiler manufacturer. Therefore, I dont think its fair to say IPA was at fault for 
not identifying the problem at the first visit.
IPA provided Mrs A with £250 towards her new boiler, in line with the policy. It also paid her 
the remaining value of the contract at £86. Mrs A doesnt think thats enough, and shed like 
the full cost of her new boiler reimbursed. Mrs A would always have had to pay towards 
repairs or replacement over £250 (the policy limit), so I cant agree it would be fair for IPA to 
pay the full cost of the new boiler. Thats not something the policy provides for. But, because 
theres no firm evidence to say what advice IPA gave when its engineer first attended, I think 
its reasonable that both parties contribute towards the cost of the boiler.
IPA recently offered to settle the complaint with a further contribution of £500 towards the 
boiler and the payment of £100 compensation recommended by our investigator. That 
means its overall contribution towards the boiler would be £750, plus £86 for the remaining 
contract and £100 compensation. Given that the policy limit on contributions to a new boiler 
is £250, Im satisfied that IPAs offer is reasonable. 
So, in the absence of any clear evidence that IPA advised Mrs A to instal a new boiler, Im 
satisfied that IPAs recent offer to contribute is fair and reasonable. 
I said I was intending to uphold Mrs As complaint and I was minded to require Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to:pay Mrs A, if it has not already done so, £100 compensation; £86 for the remainder 
of the contract, and a further £500 towards the new boiler, in addition to the policy 
provision of £250. The total sum payable to Mrs A would be £936.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
IPA accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs A responded to say:
her boiler wasnt as old as IPA said it was; 
IPA didnt advise her to use its engineers to replace the boiler;
the engineer she employed was only there to replace the boiler, not fault-find, and
shed already provided evidence that she was advised to get a new boiler.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mrs A will be disappointed, Ive reached the same decision, for the same 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain by responding to each of her further 
comments.
Boiler age
Mrs A said her home was only around 16 years old when IPAs engineer attended, therefore 
the boiler couldnt have been 18 years old as stated.
IPAs records listed the boiler as around 18 years old, but I fully accept Mrs As clarification. 
For information, boilers are expected to have an economic lifespan of around 10-15 years.
IPA didnt advise Mrs A to use its engineer
In her call with IPA, Mrs A asked whether she needed to use its engineer. IPA advised her 
she could choose whether to use its engineer or employ a private engineer. I dont think IPA 
was wrong to tell Mrs A that she could choose to use whoever she wanted, especially as she 
may have been able to source a better price elsewhere.
However, the point I made in my provisional decision is that because Mrs A used a private 
engineer, IPA didnt have any further opportunity to identify a fault. Had she employed its 
service again, then the IPA engineer may have followed the same process as her own 
engineer and identified the fault.
I understand Mrs A thinks that means IPA didnt carry out a good enough inspection in the 
first place, but I dont agree. Ill explain why in the next point. 
Mrs As engineer was not employed to fault find
She explains that the engineer was there to replace the boiler, and, because of that, Mrs A 
said there was no reason for her engineer to spend time inspecting the boiler. I dont dispute 
this. The reason I made a comparison was because after replacing the boiler, Mrs As 
engineer couldnt immediately identify why it wouldnt work. He went on to trouble-shoot with 
the manufacturer and ordered a new circuit board before identifying the real fault. IPAs 
engineer also provided costings for a new circuit board at its first and only inspection.So, the point I made was that the true fault wasnt immediately obvious to either engineer, so 
I see no reason to hold IPAs engineer responsible for not finding the true fault on the first 
visit.
Evidence that IPAs engineer advised Mrs A to get a new boiler
Mrs A said a call recording of her conversation with IPAs agent confirmed that the engineer 
advised her to get a new boiler. I listened to the call again and I cant agree. Mrs A tells the 
agent that she was advised to get a new boiler and she asks about the £250 contribution 
covered under her policy. IPAs agent said, yes I can see that on here, they have provided 
us with costings which obviously will exceed the current value of getting a new boiler. 
Looking at IPAs records, the engineer provided costings for a new circuit board, not a new 
boiler. So, here, Im satisfied that the agent simply accepted Mrs As comments that she 
needed a new boiler based on the cost to repair, rather than confirmed the engineer said she 
needed a new boiler. 
Summary
Given that the boiler was at the upper end of its economic life, and the cost to repair was 
quite high, I can understand that there may well have been a conversation about whether to 
repair or replace. But I remain of the view that there is no clear evidence that IPA said Mrs A 
needed to replace her boiler. Based on the evidence, I think its more likely than not that 
there has been some misunderstanding about what was discussed and for that reason I 
think its fair that both parties contribute to the cost of the new boiler.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs As 
complaint and Inter Partner Assistance SA must:
pay Mrs A, if it has not already done so, £100 compensation; £86 for the remainder 
of the contract, and a further £500 towards the new boiler, in addition to the policy 
provision of £250. The total sum payable to Mrs A would be £936.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman