DRN-4294706
The complaint
Mr P, director of PD (a limited company) is unhappy ClearBank Limited (trading as Tide) 
wont reimburse PD for the money it lost when Mr P fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr P fell victim to a safe account scam. He received a text message, from a number that 
Tide had previously contacted him on, saying that someone was trying to make a payment 
from his account and asking him to call. Mr P says he was told that PDs Tide account was 
at risk and that he needed to move money to a safe account to protect it. Unfortunately, and 
unknown to him at the time, Mr P was actually speaking with fraudsters.
Believing that he was genuinely dealing with Tide, Mr P ended up making a payment for over 
£2,900 from PDs account to this safe account.
Mr P realised he had been the victim of a scam when he didnt get any further details of the 
account the funds had supposedly been moved to, and reported the matter to Tide to see if it 
could recover the funds. Tide logged the fraud and contacted the business the funds had 
been sent to, to see if any funds remained that could be recovered. Ultimately though, Tide 
told Mr P that it wouldnt be reimbursing PD for the payments made from its account, and 
that it had been unable to recover any funds.
Unhappy, Mr P referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint. Overall, they considered that while Mr P had authorised the transfer (albeit as a 
result of a scam) Tide should have done more to intervene given that the payment was 
unusual and had hallmarks of a scam payment. Our Investigator also considered that Mr P  
on behalf of PD  wasnt partly to blame and shouldnt bear any responsibility for the loss.
Our Investigator recommended Tide refund the losses to PD.
Mr P, on behalf of PD, accepted the Investigators findings, but Tide disagreed. It did not 
consider that the payment was unusual, and noted that it had provided warnings  that the 
payee did not match what had been input by Mr P, and via a message asking for a one-time 
passcode  which Mr P had ignored.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons. 
Its not disputed that Mr P authorised the payment that is in dispute here. So as per the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that 
means PD is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mr P was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
Because of this, PD is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Tide acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with PD, or whether it should have done more than it did.
PDs account had been opened in November 2022, just over two months before the disputed 
payment. I appreciate this is a relatively short time, but during that period the account had 
been used regular, so a picture of what was normal for the account had started to build up. 
In general, the payments out of the account were relatively low, with the highest payment 
being for just over £1,000. So I think that the payment made on 10 January 2023 as part of 
this scam, for over £2,900, was relatively unusual given that it was more than double any 
previous payment out of the account. 
However, I agree that, on its own, this may not have been enough to say Tide should have 
intervened. There are though several other features of the payment which mean that I think 
Tide should have stepped in to ensure nothing untoward was happening. Specifically, as 
well as being a high payment in the context of the account, the payment was to a new 
payee, was being made to an account where the payee details input by Mr P did not match 
the name on the recipient account, and almost entirely cleared the balance of the account. I 
think this activity, as a whole and bearing in mind common features of scams which I would 
expect Tide to be aware of, was unusual enough that Tide ought to have been alerted to the 
possibility of financial harm and intervened.
I acknowledge that this is a business account, which are usually operated differently to 
personal accounts in that they deal with higher payments and new payees more often. 
However, while keeping this in mind, with this particular business account, I dont think the 
payment in question was the norm.
Considering the nature of the scam, I think a conversation about what the payment was for 
would have quickly revealed the scam and prevented the payment being made. Mr P doesnt 
appear to have been given a cover story to use by the scammer, and he already though he 
was talking to Tide, so if hed been unable to progress with making a payment until hed 
been forced to speak to the real Tide, then I think hed have been open and honest about 
what was happening. With this in mind, I think it would be reasonable for Tide to refund the 
payment that is in dispute here.
Ive thought about whether PD should bear some responsibility for its loss by way of 
contributory negligence, but I dont think it should. Mr P fell victim to a sophisticated scam, 
and was contacted on what appeared to be Tides genuine number, as the messages he 
received appeared in the same thread as messages known to be from the real Tide. In the 
circumstances of the scam  including the real fear that he might lose a significant amount of 
money  I can understand why the fraud went undetected by Mr P.
With the benefit of hindsight, there may have been some red flags (for example the
mismatch in the confirmation of payee and the message sent with the one-time passcode) 
that Mr P couldve picked up on, particularly if hed had more time to think. But the scam took 
place over a short period of time and in the heat of the moment, in a pressured situation. This is of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudsters to create fear  in the hope it would 
disrupt Mr Ps thinking and make him more compliant. On balance, Im satisfied that in the 
circumstances Mr Ps actions were not unreasonable.
I have also considered if Tide did enough to try to recover PDs money once Mr P had told it 
of the scam, but Im satisfied that the funds had already been moved on by the scammers by 
the time Mr P reported the fraud. So I dont consider that Tide could have done anything 
more.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Tide should:
- Refund the payment  totaling £2,903.70
- Pay 8% interest on this amount from 10 January 2023 to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. ClearBank Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask PD to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman