DRN-4067221
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as D, is unhappy that one of the business partners wasnt 
removed by Lloyds Bank PLC from the business banking accounts as requested.
Ds complaint is brought to this service by the partners, whom Ill refer to as Mr H and Mr S.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs S were in partnership together, trading as D. In 2017, Mr H left the partnership 
and Mr S continued trading on a sole trader basis. Lloyds were informed by Mr H and Mr S 
that this had happened. However, Ds business banking profile with Lloyds wasnt amended 
and remained set up on a partnership basis with both Mr H and Mr S named as partners. 
In May 2020, Mr S successfully applied to Lloyds for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) for D. 
Later, D didnt then make the monthly payments required by the BBL which resulted in 
Lloyds terminating the BBL agreement for non-payment. And, because Mr H was still listed 
with Lloyds as a partner for D, they contacted Mr H and pursued him for the outstanding BBL 
debt. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mr H and explained that while they did receive a request to remove him 
from Ds business profile, so that Mr S would be left as a sole trader, they had responded to 
that request and asked for more information which had subsequently not been received. 
Lloyds also explained that it would never have been the case that Mr H could have been 
removed as a partner from Ds accounts, and that if Mr S had wanted to continue the 
business as a sole trader, he would have needed to have closed the partnership account 
and opened a new sole trader account with them, which never happened.
Lloyds therefore confirmed that Mr H had never been removed from the partnership account 
and so was liable for the debts of D, including the BBL. However, Lloyds did accept Mr H 
may have been incorrectly told that he had been removed from the partnership account by 
one of their agents, and they apologised to Mr H for this and offered to pay £50 to him as 
compensation for any trouble or upset he may have incurred. Mr H wasnt satisfied with 
Lloyds response, so he referred Ds complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has explained that he completed a form with Lloyds to have his name removed as a 
partner of D so that Mr S was left to operate D on a sole trader basis. And Mr H has also 
explained that it was confirmed to him by a member of Lloyds staff upon completion of that 
form that he would have no further association with D with Lloyds from that point onwards. 
Lloyds confirm that they did receive the form that Mr H refers to here, but that because it 
wasnt possible to action the request as received  because it wasnt possible to transfer a 
business bank account from a partnership to a sole trader basis as was being requested  
that they wrote to D and requested further information, which was subsequently never 
received. And Lloyds also confirm that for these reasons, Mr H was never removed from Ds 
accounts and remained listed with them as partner for D. 
Additionally, Lloyds have also confirmed that, following the events described above, the 
business accounts and business profile remained on a partnership basis and that they 
received no future notification from Mr S or Mr H that this was incorrect or that the 
partnership accounts should be closed with new accounts to be applied for by Mr S on a sole 
trader basis.
It's difficult to find fault with Lloyds actions here. I say this because they received a request 
to remove Mr H as a partner from D that they were unable to comply with, and which they 
responded to by writing to D, at the address they held for D, requesting further information 
about what D was trying to achieve so that the correct process could be ascertained  to 
which they received no reply. And it appears that Mr S continued to use the account on a 
partnership basis from that point forwards and didnt apply for a new sole trader account as 
was required of him.
Furthermore, while Mr H has explained that he was told by a Lloyds agent that he would be 
removed as a partner from Ds accounts  a claim which Lloyds have been unable to verify 
but which theyve accepted on Mr Hs word  its notable that Mr H didnt subsequently 
receive any written confirmation that he had been removed as a partner from Ds accounts, 
which I feel Mr H should have reasonably have expected to have received, had his removal 
actually taken place.
Lloyds have also been able to demonstrate that, after Mr H had made the request to be 
removed as a partner, Lloyds sent several text messages about Ds ongoing business to    
Mr H at the telephone number that Mr H has provided to this service as being his own. And 
its difficult not to feel that these text messages should reasonably have given Mr H cause to 
realise that he may not have been removed as a partner of D as he believed he had been.
All of which means that I dont feel that Lloyds have acted unfairly by continuing to consider 
Mr H as being a partner of D as they have here, including that theyve pursued Mr H for the 
BBL debt. And this is because, ultimately, I feel that Mr H could and should have done more 
to confirm that he was no longer listed as an ongoing partner of D, having received no 
written confirmation that he had been removed from Lloyds accounts as he had requested, 
and upon receipt of the ongoing business communication he received from Lloyds.
Mr H may argue that its unfair that he be considered liable for the BBL debt, given that the 
BBL was applied for by Mr S after Mr H had left the business. And he also may question how 
Mr S was able to successfully apply for a BBL via the partnerships accounts, given that he 
himself, as a listed partner of D with Lloyds, wasnt a party to that BBL application.
But the terms of the BBL scheme included that it could be applied for by one partner of a 
partnership. And given that Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Lloyds to have continued 
to consider both Mr H and Mr S as being joint partners of D at the time the BBL was applied 
for by Mr S  in part because of the lack of response to Lloyds enquiries following the 
unsuccessful initial request to remove Mr H as a partner from Lloyds records  I dont feel 
that Lloyds acted unfairly by approving the BBL application made by Mr S as they did.However, I can appreciate Mr Hs position that he shouldnt fairly be considered liable for the 
BBL balance, given the circumstances of this complaint. And the British Business Bank  
which administered the BBL scheme  have recently issued amended guidance which 
address situations such as this. 
On that basis, Lloyds have agreed to not consider Mr H liable for the BBL debt if Mr S is 
willing to sign a declaration accepting full liability for the BBL debt himself. This seems 
reasonable to me, and so I wont be issuing any instructions to Lloyds in this regard. 
Additionally, if Mr S is unwilling to sign such a declaration, I feel that any dispute which may 
arise between Mr H and Mr S as a result would be a civil dispute which it isnt within the 
remit of this service to comment on.
Finally, while Lloyds have been unable to confirm that Mr H was incorrectly told by one of the 
staff that he would be removed as a partner on Ds accounts following the submission of the 
original request, theyve accepted Mr Hs word on this matter and offered to make a payment 
of £50 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset this matter may have caused.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But the £50 that Lloyds have offered here for 
provision of this incorrect information does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its 
commensurate with what I may have instructed Lloyds to have paid, had they not already 
offered to do so. And I note that this compensation is for the provision of incorrect 
information only, and that I continue to feel that Mr H reasonably should have been alerted to 
his potential continuing presence as a partner on Ds accounts by the lack of written 
confirmation and ongoing communication received from Lloyds as previously explained, 
despite the provision of this incorrect information. 
All of which means that while I will be upholding this complaint in Ds favour, Ill only be doing 
so on the limited basis to instruct Lloyds to make the payment of £50 compensation which 
theyve already offered to make.
I realise this might not be the outcome that Mr H and Mr S were wanting, but I trust theyll 
understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Lloyds must make a compensation payment of £50 as theyve previously offered to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman