DRN-2037810
The complaint
Mr D complains about how much interest he was charged by American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) when he made a payment which was almost, but not 
quite, enough to pay off his monthly balance.
What happened
Mr D usually pays off the full balance on his AmEx card each month. But in October he 
didnt, he paid most of it, and left a small outstanding balance to be paid the next month. At 
an APR of about 22%, he was expecting to be charged about £20 in interest on that small 
outstanding amount. 
Mr D was shocked when he got his next bill, to see that AmEx had charged him interest on 
the whole balance from the previous month, not just the amount he hadnt paid off. He said 
this wasnt standard practice for credit cards, and AmEx was relying on small print to get 
away with this. 
Amex said what it was doing was in line with its own terms and conditions, and was very 
much an industry standard approach. It didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that AmEx had made clear that the 
only way to avoid paying any interest at all was to pay the account balance off in full each 
month. At the time Mr D complained about, he hadnt done that. And that meant that he 
would be charged interest on each of his purchases, from the date of purchase. Our 
investigator didnt think AmEx had done anything wrong. 
Mr D still thought that this was sharp practice on AmExs part. He said if this is what AmEx 
was going to do, it needed to be a lot clearer about that, and he repeated that no other major 
credit card provider does this. Mr D wanted his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Amex sets out clearly in its terms how it will calculate interest. Mr D hasnt suggested that 
AmEx hasnt followed those terms. What he objects to is AmEx calculating interest in a way 
which is so different to other credit card providers, without explaining and highlighting this. 
I know Mr D holds an overseas card, and other UK cards. Although I cant speak for credit 
card providers outside of the UK, I dont think that what AmEx is doing is different to other 
UK providers. Looking at UK consumer websites produces explanations of how credit cards 
work which are consistent with what AmEx is doing. Essentially, the interest free period on 
purchases on a card usually only applies if the account is paid off in full each month, as 
AmEx said. 
Another way of understanding this, is that credit cards start to charge interest as soon as a 
purchase is made. That interest is waived if, and only if, the customer pays the money back 
in full, and if the customer does this within the dates set out on the statement those 
purchases appear on. If the customer doesnt pay in full, interest isnt waived at all. Its not 
just waived on the amount that has been paid. 
I understand that Mr D has previously always paid in full. If so, he wont have experienced 
this before. And I also appreciate that the difference is particularly stark, as Mr D says, when 
we compare the costs if the whole balance is paid at the end of the month (when no interest 
is charged) to when almost the whole balance is paid at the end of the month (when interest 
is charged on all of the spending). But that doesnt mean its wrong, or that other credit card 
providers arent doing the same. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman