DRN-3709243
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc failed to refund three payments he says he didnt make, 
and they havent provided enough information to help him investigate how this happened.
What happened
Mr W is represented by his father in bringing this complaint.
Mr W says he didnt make three payments that debited his accounts across two days in 
October 2021. Two payments were made via an account being set up in Mr Ws name with a 
well-known payment service provider (although Mr W disputes setting the account up), and 
one payment was sent directly from Mr Ws Santander savings account to the account of a 
third party. Mr W says he does not know the payees and believes them to be associated with 
a bar in a country he has no association with.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They concluded:
The other payment service providers account was set up using the correct details for 
Mr W, including the same email address Santander had recorded for him, and        
Mr Ws Santander card details were used.
The payments in question were verified by one-time passcodes being sent to the 
mobile number that had been registered to his Santander account for some time. 
There wasnt a persuasive explanation as to how the passcodes could have been 
intercepted. The investigator later clarified that one-time passcodes werent sent, but 
push notifications were, and the two relevant payments were approved on Mr Ws 
online banking account. 
The IP addresses logged when the payments were made to the payment service 
provider matched IP addresses logged numerous times in the past on his account. 
This suggested the payments were made within the same vicinity where Mr W had 
previously accessed his account.
Someone logged on to Mr Ws banking application numerous times the day one of 
the payments was made. For someone other than Mr W to have accessed his online 
account that person would have needed either his security passcode, biometric 
fingerprint or have passed facial recognition. There wasnt a persuasive explanation 
as to how someone else could have passed these security measures.
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr W likely consented to the 
payments. Consent here meant formal consent in the sense that Mr W likely made 
the payments according to the agreed form and procedure to make each payment. It 
did not mean informed consent, a concept which isnt applicable to the PSRs. 
Mr W via his father rejected the outcome reached by our investigator and his complaint has 
been given to me to make a final decision in my capacity as an ombudsman. 
Mr Ws father made a number of points which I have considered in full. But I am only 
referring to the points I find relevant in order to reach a decision. In summary, he said:
We should interpret consent in terms of its normal meaning and not the narrow 
interpretation under the PSRs. He referred to a final decision by another ombudsman 
on a different complaint.
Mr W did not consent to the payments, and there is insufficient evidence to conclude 
that he did. The starting point should be he didnt authorise the payments, and 
evidence needs to be produced to show on the balance of probabilities that he did, 
including his motive.
Potential security flaws cannot be ruled out, so its possible banking application 
transmissions could have been intercepted or diverted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W and his father are unhappy Action Fraud have not investigated this matter to their 
satisfaction. But my role is not to provide information or investigate their concerns for 
purposes outside of determining whether Santander should refund Mr W the payments he 
disputes making or whether they should otherwise compensate him.
Mr W referred to another ombudsmans decision. But my role is not to review or account for 
the conclusions of another ombudsman for a different complaint. Instead, I must determine      
Mr Ws complaint based on its individual circumstances to reach a decision I find is fair and 
reasonable.
The PSRs are very relevant to determining Santanders liability to Mr W. And, I am applying 
consent here as its meant to be interpreted under the PSRs. The PSRs govern a payment 
service providers liability to a payment service user in relation to payments the user says 
they didnt make. Santander are not liable for every misfortune that might befall a customer 
in terms of their account where there is no proper basis to hold them responsible. And, I find 
it would be unreasonable to disregard the meaning of consent as it applies to the PSRs in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
However, I dont find the matter of informed consent relevant here, as Mr W hasnt said he 
allowed someone access to his account but didnt agree to the payments in question or that 
he was scammed into making them. Instead he says he didnt make them, and he didnt 
allow anyone access his account. So, I need to decide whether I agree.
After considering all the information and evidence available to me, I find Mr W most likely 
made the payments or he allowed someone else to. I say this because:
Two push notifications were sent to the mobile device registered with Mr Ws 
account. The notifications revealed that each payment needed to be authorised 
through Santanders online banking. When Santander first answered Mr Ws 
complaint they mixed up the last four digits of Mr Ws mobile phone number and 
incorrectly referred to the push notifications as one-time passcodes. This was an 
error for which Santander compensated Mr W, but its clear that Santanders records 
show push notifications were sent to the correct mobile device, and the payments 
were approved by someone accessing Mr Ws online bank account.
The savings account payment was also made by someone accessing the banking 
application to set up a new payee and make the payment. So again, Mr Ws mobile 
phone security measures needed to be passed, and his banking application security 
would have also needed to be passed to access the account.
I have seen no evidence to show that a SIM swap occurred, or anything else which 
could reasonably show how anything other than Mr Ws mobile device was used to 
access his account. But even if a SIM swap had occurred, this wouldnt explain how the unique identification number associated with Mr Ws mobile was still recorded for 
each payment. Neither have I seen any evidence to show that banking application 
transmissions were compromised or intercepted. So, I cannot fairly conclude an 
unidentified security flaw most likely explains what happened, simply because Mr W 
says he didnt make the payments and he doesnt know the recipients of the 
payments.
No other payments were made around the time of the disputed payments even 
though a substantive balance remained on Mr Ws accounts. And, although not 
always the case, its fair to say a fraudster will often attempt to make off with as much 
money as possible on obtaining access to an account. I find it telling that the 
remainder of Mr Ws funds were not dissipated further if a fraudster had accessed his 
account on at least two occasions over two days.
I also would have reasonably expected Mr W to have noticed the not insignificant 
reduction to his account balances earlier than he says he did. Instead it appears it 
was Mr Ws father who noticed the payments on reviewing his sons accounts almost 
one month later.
During a phone call Mr W had with Santander about the payment from his savings 
account he said I dont know anyone called that in relation to the payees name, 
and he then said that might have been a friend thing, Im not sure. He also wasnt 
interested in Santander going to the recipients bank to see what they said, which I 
find unusual. Despite being disappointed at Santander not refunding the other 
payments, Santander were clear this was a different type of payment and the 
recipients bank could have relevant information. I must consider the possibility that 
Mr W may not have wanted Santander to contact the recipients bank for other 
reasons that would not support his position that the payment was unauthorised.
Mr W says its possible his drinks were spiked the day before the first payments were 
made, so his card details and information might have been obtained this way. Im 
sorry to hear if Mr Ws drinks were spiked, but this doesnt very well explain how his 
banking application security was passed using his mobile device the following 
afternoon or the day after that. 
Mr Ws father says his card and mobile might have been obtained temporarily without 
his knowledge when he stayed at shared university accommodation or attended the 
gym. This is possible but given the amount of information someone would have 
needed to pass through Mr Ws mobile phone security and banking application 
security, I find this scenario too speculative and unlikely to explain what happened.
Cumulatively, Im satisfied that the available information and evidence casts sufficient doubt 
on Mr Ws assertion that he didnt make the payments or that he didnt allow someone else 
to make them. I find its more likely than not that he did provide consent.
There may be a variety of reasons why Mr W might have made the payments or allowed 
someone else to make them, which wouldnt have required Mr W to know the payees. For 
instance, it could be he was asked to help someone he knew who needed to make 
payments, or the payments were made for a reason which he hasnt revealed, and he now 
regrets making them. But I dont find Santander need to speculate as to his motives. Instead, 
I find there was sufficient evidence for them to decline Mr Ws fraud claim, and I dont require 
them to refund the payments or do anything more than they have.Mr Ws father said the payments were out of character for his son and ought to have been 
picked up on by Santander. But as I find Mr W most likely consented to the payments, this is 
not a reason to direct Santander to refund them.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman