DRN-3061448
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Allianz Insurance Plc handled a claim he made under a
property owners select insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr H made a claim to Allianz for flood damage to his flat caused by a leak.
Allianz instructed a Loss Adjuster (LA) to handle the claim on its behalf. The LA asked Mr H
to provide an estimate for the costs of the repairs, which he did in February 2020. The LA
visited Mr and Mrs Hs flat and approved the estimate.
Works began in March 2020. However, works didnt complete due to Covid 19 restrictions.
In August 2020 Mr H raised concerns with the LA about the contractor. He was unhappy with
the repairs carried out so far and wanted a different contractor to finish the works.
Mr H says it wasnt until September 2020 that the LA explained that as Mr H had chosen the
contractor, it couldnt help with any concerns he had about the workmanship. So it said Mr H
would need to resolve any dispute Mr H had with the contractor separately.
Mr H complained, but Allianz didnt uphold his complaint.
In September 2020 Mr H asked us to look at things for him. He told us that the LA had sent
him a settlement payment. Mr H doesnt want to pay the contractor for the works as he is
very unhappy about the repairs. Mr H is upset that he has been left to deal with the dispute
with the contractor.
Allianz told us it was waiting to send a settlement payment to Mr H in relation to the works 
that have been invoiced.
Our investigator thought Allianz had acted reasonably. He said that because the contractor
wasnt an approved repairer, any dispute about the repairs was a matter between Mr H and
the contractor he chose.
Mr H didnt agree. He said Allianz failed to explain that it wouldnt provide assistance  in 
fact he says the opposite was conveyed to him by the LA. He says he and his wife are 
pensioners and were under the impression until September 2020 that the contractor reported 
to the LA. He says they are inexperienced at project managing building repair works and so 
it doesnt feel fair to be left having to deal with the dispute they have about the works without 
help from the LA.
Mr H said the contractor is chasing him for payment for the works which he is very unhappy
about. Mr H said hes paid over £3,000 in surveyor fees to show the works by the
contractor are very poor and it will cost between £12,000 and £17,000 to put right.
Mr H said he and his wife do not have the funds to pay for these works and their flat is in a
state of poor repairs due to the flooring not being laid properly. Mr H feels its very unfair that
Allianz and the LA will not help as he was led to believe the agreement was between the LA
and Allianz.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 August 2021 intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I 
found no evidence that the Loss Adjuster (LA) instructed by Allianz to handle the claim had 
explained the claims process to Mr H as Allianz described. Mr H had been asked to provide 
estimates  which the LA approved. At no point was it explained to Mr H that by going ahead 
with the works approved by the LA, that this meant the contract was between him and the 
contractor. I didnt think this was fair  as Mr H wasnt aware that by doing so, he wasnt 
protected by Allianz if anything went wrong. 
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to clarify the position with regard to payments 
already made as it wasnt clear if the LA had sent a settlement payment to Mr H to pay the 
contractor or not. I ask Mr H to confirm if he had made any payments to any third parties in 
relation to his claim  other than the surveyor report dated 11 November 2020.
I intended to ask Allianz Insurance Plc to do the following:
Appoint an approved repairer to provide a detailed schedule of works with a view
to carrying out urgent rectification repairs to Mr Hs property and treat this as one
claim.
Reimburse Mr H for the costs he paid for a surveyor report dated 11 November
2020 subject to proof of payment.
Pay interest on this sum at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of 
reimbursement to the date of payment.
 Pay Mr H £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision. Allianz said it had nothing to offer and would 
await the final decision. 
Mr H said hed received a settlement sum of £7,778 from Allianz on 5 March 2021. He hasnt 
paid any other third parties under the claim other than the costs of the surveyor report. So in 
light of this information, I suggested an alternative proposal to both parties.
I thought the interest Mr H earned from the £7,778 would be most likely more than the 
interest amount I intend to ask Alliance to pay on the reimbursed costs of the surveyor 
report. And Mr H said he was happy to return the £7,778 to Allianz in order to proceed with 
my suggested remedies. So I suggested for Mr H to return the £7,778 to Allianz minus the 
costs of the surveyor report fee and minus my recommended compensation award of £500.
I asked Allianz to provide any comments  and details for Mr H to return the partial 
settlement sum to it.
Allianz hasnt replied to my subsequent proposal. Mr H agrees. So the case has been 
passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have been given the opportunity to comment on my proposed change in light of 
the sum Mr H has received from Allianz following my provisional decision. As that time has 
passed, my final decision is along the same lines as my provisional decision, save for a 
small change to the remedies to put things right.
We expect an insurer to show that it has dealt with a claim in line with the policy and in areasonable way. And we think an insurer should show it clearly explained the process to a
customer so they understand how their claim will be dealt with.
Mr Hs policy with Allianz says in the event of a claim for loss or damage to the building of
the property, it will pay the costs of reinstatement. It isnt clear from the policy how the claim
will be handled.
In this case, Allianz instructed an LA when Mr H reported the damage. It isnt unusual for this
to happen. Sometimes the LA will oversee the claim and appoint approved contractors to
carry out the works. Sometimes a customer will choose their preferred contractor.
Allianz says that Mr H chose the contractor he wanted to carry out the works. And so the LA
didnt appoint the contractor.
When the repairing contractor is appointed by the insurer (or the LA on behalf of the insurer),
they become the insurers agent. That means the insurer is responsible for the repairer and
any sub-contractors the repairer might appoint. So if theres a problem with the repairers
work, the insurer is responsible for dealing with such problems.
If the insurer chooses to settle the claim by repairing the damage but the customer wants to
appoint their own repairer, the customer is usually responsible for the repairer if things go
wrong. But, we would expect the insurer to make that clear to the customer so that they can
make an informed choice about their options.
We asked Allianz to provide evidence to show how the options were explained to Mr H. In
response, it provided an email from the LA to Mr H in October 2019 when they were
appointed by Allianz to deal with the claim.
In this email, the LA didnt offer Mr H the choice for a repairing contractor appointed by them
to carry out the works. They asked Mr H to arrange and provide estimates from contractors
for the repairs.
The LA wrote that if detailed estimates werent possible, further enquiries would have to be
undertaken by them which may result in a delay.
In February 2020 Mr H provided one estimate from a contractor as requested for £8,628
including VAT. Due to the costs, the LA visited their property. Following the visit, on 25
February 2020 the LA approved the estimate.
I cant see from the information Allianz has provided that the LA explained to Mr H that from
that point, the contract was between Mr H and the contractor. The LA said it approved the
estimate and asked Mr H to contact them if further works were identified. The LA said it
would await an invoice for the completed works in order to settle the claim.
In response to the LAs email, Mr H instructed the contractor. Allianz says this shows Mr H
arranged the quotes and he was the one to instruct the contractor to proceed with the works.
We asked Allianz to provide proof the LA offered Mr H the choice of an approved contractor
to complete the works. Allianz said it didnt feel this was necessary as the estimate was
accepted by the LA following a visit to the property and Mr H showed no concerns. Allianz
believes the LA acted correctly.
However, I disagree. I dont think the LA properly explained the claims process to Mr H and I
dont think it was made clear to him that  after providing an estimate as requested which the
LA approved, Mr H was the party in a relationship with the contractor, not the LA  or Allianz
as his insurer. I think it was significant that Mr H wasnt made aware that if anything wentwrong with the repairs, Mr H had no protection from his insurer or their agents. I dont think
Mr H chose the contractor. He simply followed the instructions given by the LA to provide
estimates. This isnt the same thing.
In March 2020 while carrying out the repair works from the leak behind a fridge freezer, the
contractor identified a second leak from a radiator in the living room. Mr H provided the LA
with a video of the damage identified in March 2020. The LA replied to say it couldnt open
the video. It said in order for the damage to be considered, it would require a detailed report
and it may need to be considered as a second claim.
Mr H told us that the contractor led him to believe the LA had approved the works for the
second repair following a call between the contractor and the LA. Mr H said the contractor
told him the leak needed to be repaired urgently and in order for the works to the flooring to
be completed. He said he had no reason to question what the contractor told him at the time.
In May 2020 Mr H replied to the LA confirming that the contractor had carried out the
majority of the repairs  and hoped to finalise the works once lockdown restrictions were
lifted.
However, in August 2020 Mr H contacted the LA, unhappy with the repairs. He said the
replacement flooring was springy, there were gaps and he felt it was not only unsightly but
dangerous.
In September 2020 the LA told Mr H that as he had instructed the contractor, he was
responsible for overseeing the works. Mr H said the contractor attempted rectification repairs
in September 2020  but the relationship between them broke down.
In October 2020 the contractor sent an invoice for the repairs to the second leak for £582
including VAT. I understand the LA hasnt approved the additional works. Ive addressed this
issue again later in my decision.
Mr H has provided a copy of a surveyors report following an inspection of the works in
October 2020. The report identifies a number of immediate actions in relation to the works.
In summary, the surveyor reported that the flooring across the open plan kitchen/dining/living
room space had been poorly installed. There was no evidence of a damp proof membrane
having been installed and the concrete slabs hadnt been dry before the floor was installed.
Joints were not met and the flooring is warped in a number of areas due to excessive
moisture levels present in the property.
The surveyor found that the repairs to the second leak had failed and so shortly after the
flooring was installed, water continued to leak and cause significant damage.
The surveyor recommended the floor be lifted in entirety, and a replacement floor be
properly installed including sufficient damp proofing and drying beforehand.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the LA hasnt properly dealt with Mr Hs claim. I think it
should have given Mr H the option to use an approved contractor. I can completely
understand Mr Hs shock and upset at discovering in September 2020 that he had no
protection from the LA in relation to the works  or any dispute about payment.
I think the fairest outcome in this case is for the LA to oversee the rectification repairs by
appointing an approved contractor. And I think the LA should deal with any dispute in
relation to the repair works carried out by the first contractor on behalf of Mr H.I think Allianz should reimburse Mr H for the costs of the surveyor report. I think the fairest 
way to do this is for Mr H to retain this sum from the return of the settlement sum Allianz paid 
him of £7,778 in March 2021. 
I think Mr H and his wife have been put under significant distress, worry and inconvenience
as a result of the poor repairs and the way the claim has been handled by the LA on behalf
of Allianz. They have explained that they are pensioners, they didnt have the knowledge in
order to oversee the works and believed that was the role of the LA appointed by Allianz. I
think its more likely than not that  had Mr H been given a choice  he would have chosen
for the LA to appoint an approved repairer to carry out the works.
I think the surveyors report Mr H has provided gives a detailed breakdown of significant poor
repairs and workmanship carried out by the contractor. For the worry, distress and
inconvenience caused, I think Allianz should pay Mr H £500 compensation. I think Mr H 
should retain this sum from the return of the settlement sum Allianz paid of £7,778.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Insurance Plc to do the 
following:
Appoint an approved repairer to provide a detailed schedule of works with a view
to carrying out urgent rectification repairs to Mr Hs property and treat this as one
claim. Allianz should deal with any disputes about payment under the claim on Mr Hs 
behalf.
Provide Mr H with details to return the cash settlement sum it paid him of £7,778 
minus the costs of the surveyor report 11 November 2020 and minus a compensation 
award of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman