DRN-3616451
The complaint
Ms P complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms P was given a guarantor loan by UK Credit in December 2018. She borrowed £4000 and 
agreed to repay this over 48 months. Ms P has an outstanding balance to repay.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Ms P before it agreed to lend. It called Ms P to 
discuss her income and expenditure. It also used Office of National Statistics data to 
calculate her living expenses. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out her 
credit commitments. Those checks suggested Ms P had enough disposable income each 
month to afford the loan repayments. 
Ms P was entering into a significant commitment with UK Credit. She was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 4 years. So, I think it is right that UK Credit wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Ms Ps financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think UK Credits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what UK Credit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that UK Credit conducted. The search showed that Ms P 
had a loan and 3 credit cards. I can see that at the time Ms P asked for this loan, she was 
meeting all of her credit repayments when they fell due and overall didnt have too much that 
UK Credit ought to have been too concerned about from what was on the search.
Ms P told UK Credit that he was going to use the loan for debt consolidation and told it what 
she was going to pay off, this being all of the credit commitments that she held. I think it is 
reasonable for UK Credit to rely on what she has said here. I can see that by doing this Ms P 
would reduce her monthly payment to credit and have one monthly repayment. She would 
be at the same time extending the amount of time she would repay credit by several months 
and add an additional amount to her overall debt. I dont think at this stage, on balance, that 
this additional debt was unmanageable for Ms P or that it ought to have caused UK Credit to 
either find out more or not give her the loan.
Ms P told UK Credit that she contributed about £200 to the household. It then added around 
£276 in living expenses based on ONS data. It added the loan repayment and could see that 
after it did this and deducted these costs from Ms Ps income, she had enough disposable 
income to comfortably afford the loan. In the circumstances, as I have already described, on 
balance, I think the loan was sustainably affordable for her.
I appreciate that Ms Ps financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks UK Credit performed were proportionate 
and didnt suggest that Ms P was facing any current problems in managing her finances. I 
think UK Credit was entitled to rely on what Ms P said about her finances, and what she 
intended to use the loan for. And that information suggested that she would be able to 
sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So, I dont currently think UK Credit was 
wrong to give the loan to Ms P.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. UK Credit responded and said it has nothing further to add. Ms 
P responded and was not happy with the outcome of my provisional decision. I have 
summarised her response. She says:
Because of this loan and the amount of debt she got herself in, she ended up 
homeless.
She owed money to friends and family to as well as finance companies. 
She described a difficult time that she had after she took on this loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read Ms Ps response to my provisional decision carefully. I am sorry that she has 
had a difficult time after she took out the loan with UK Credit. I also acknowledge the 
comment she has made about owing more money than what would have been shown on 
her credit report. But I concluded in my provisional decision that UK Credit carried out 
proportionate checks. So, I dont think it needed to do more and find out further 
information about Ms Ps circumstances at that time. And with the information it did have 
in front of it, I think it would have seen that the loan repayments were affordable for her.
With that in mind, I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint and UK Credit doesnt need to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman