DRN-4359867
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Lockhart Consultancy Ltd (LCL) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme and two other personal 
pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr W is being represented by a professional third party but for ease of reading this decision 
Ill largely refer to representations as having been made by Mr W.
What happened
Mr W held deferred benefits in a DB scheme pension from a period of employment between 
1997 and 2004. On 9 February 2010, Mr W obtained a transfer value from his DB scheme, 
which confirmed the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his benefits was £42,610.51.
Mr W spoke to LCL in May 2010, for advice about his pension. Mr Ws representative says 
LCL approached him unprompted. LCL however says that it did not contact customers 
unprompted. And LCL says that Mr W approached it, having been referred by a friend of his 
who was an established customer of LCL, as he wanted to transfer his pension and use it to 
purchase a commercial property. 
LCL completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and objectives. 
It recorded that he was 41, in good health and married with four dependent children. Mr W 
was self-employed and he and Mrs Ws income was recorded as exceeding their outgoings. 
In addition to his DB scheme pension, it was noted that Mr W had two other personal 
pensions.
Mr W said he didnt expect to retire until age 65. And LCL recorded that he wanted to take 
control of his pension as he was looking at self-investing in commercial property. He had 
extensive experience in the property market and would class himself as adventurous in this 
market.
LCL also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk. In this he was asked to rank a 
list of six different priorities based on their importance to him, from which he said increasing 
his pension was most important and the security of his pension least. Mr W was also asked 
to select the risk profile he wished to adopt, if a transfer was suitable. The option circled was 
medium / high or 7/8 out of 10 on a scale of 1-10.
On 26 May 2010, LCL advised Mr W to transfer his DB pension into a SIPP. It said, having 
discussed his attitude to risk it was felt this was in fact 6 on a scale of 1-10. The suitability 
report said it was important to understand that Mr W would be giving up the guaranteed 
benefits the DB scheme provided by transferring and his pension would become dependent 
on investment returns  including rental income if he purchased a property as intended. But 
LCL said it felt the returns required to match the benefits the DB scheme would provide at 
retirement were achievable. And a transfer provided Mr W the control over his pension that 
he wanted, as he was seeking an adventurous approach to his investment. LCL 
recommended a SIPP provider while confirming that Mr Ws pension would initially be 
invested in cash, as he was looking to shortly invest in a commercial property purchase  
again noting he had significant experience in the property market due to his profession and 
had a property in mind. The transfer of the DB scheme to the SIPP went ahead in line with 
LCLs recommendations in August 2010. 
Shortly after LCL advised Mr W to transfer his DB scheme, it also requested details from the 
providers of Mr Ws two personal pensions personal pensions. And some details were 
provided to it in June 2010. A meeting note from several weeks later says that the transfer of 
these two pensions to Mr Ws SIPP was also being considered. But this was put on hold 
after the purchase of the first commercial property Mr W was considering fell through.
The transfer of the two smaller pensions was revisited in 2011. And on 14 June 2011 LCL 
advised Mr W to transfer the benefits from his two personal pensions (with transfer values of 
£4,720.63 and £3,077.98) into the SIPP that had been established in 2010. It said Mr W was 
again looking into purchasing a commercial property through his SIPP and the transfer met 
Mr Ws objective of providing further funds for this purpose and giving him full control over 
how his pensions were invested.
Mr W received further advice from LCL in October 2011  involving a change of SIPP 
provider. And in February 2012 a property was purchased through the new SIPP. This has 
been complained about separately by Mr W and doesnt form part of the complaint being 
considered here. But I do note that Ive seen information that Mr W elected to be the 
property manager for the SIPP, receiving the rental income and hasnt received ongoing 
advice relating to its investment.
Mr W complained to LCL in May 2022 about the recommendations to transfer his DB 
scheme and personal pensions to a SIPP. His representative said that Mr W now thought 
this advice was unsuitable. 
LCL did not uphold Mr Ws complaint as it said it was suitable based on his circumstances at 
the time and met his objectives.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. LCL said it felt that the complaint might be one 
that we couldnt consider. I issued a decision in August 2023, in which I said I was satisfied 
that the complaint was one that fell within our jurisdiction to consider and that we could look 
into the merits of the matter.
The complaint was considered by one of our Investigators. They didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. In respect of the transfer of the DB scheme, the information from the time 
indicated that a transfer provided a reasonable opportunity for Mr W to improve on the 
benefits he already held. And given his stated objective to maximise his pension and desire 
for control and to invest in property  which they believed was genuine based on the 
information theyd seen  they didnt think the advice to transfer was unsuitable. And, they 
also felt that, based on his objectives, Mr W would likely have always sought to transfer. Mr Ws representative said he disagreed. They said he had no financial background or 
investment experience. And they said hed relied on LCLs advice, the guarantees hed be 
giving up werent explained and no alternative methods for investing in commercial property 
were discussed.
The complaint was reviewed by another Investigator, but they werent inclined to reach a 
different opinion. They were satisfied that Mr W always intended to invest his pension in 
property when seeking advice from LCL  given his background and knowledge of this area. 
And they felt his attitude to risk had been correctly considered. In respect of the later advice 
for Mr W to switch his personal pensions to the SIPP, they felt this was also suitable. By that 
time the SIPP had already been established but Mr W required additional funds to complete 
his investment. He still had over 20 years to retirement in which to achieve growth and he 
had a clear intention to proceed.
Mr Ws representatives then said, prior to receiving advice from LCL, he had no intention to 
invest his pension in property.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of LCL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer, including COBS 19.1.16 in which the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), states the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is 
that it is unsuitable.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.Mr Ws circumstances at the time of the advice
There are conflicting accounts from the parties involved around several important points in 
this complaint.
Mr Ws representative says he was contacted unprompted by LCL about a review of his 
pension. And more recently it has said that he was not considering investing his pension in 
property prior to speaking to LCL.
LCL says it doesnt contact potential customers directly and Mr W contacted it on the 
recommendation of a friend, who was already a customer of LCL. It also says that Mr W was 
considering investing his pension in property before speaking to it and had a clear ambition 
to do so.
Mr W obtained a transfer value for his DB scheme benefits from the trustees of the scheme 
in February 2010. This was addressed directly to him. And the information Ive seen 
indicates he first started discussing his pension with LCL in May 2010. Given hed sought 
information from the scheme directly before speaking to LCL, on balance I believe Mr W 
contacted LCL for advice. And Mr W obtaining information about the value of his pension 
benefits also, in my view, indicates he was considering potentially making a change to his 
pension.
His representative said, in its most recent response, that Mr W had not considered investing 
his pension in property before taking advice from LCL. But, when they initially submitted a 
complaint to our service on his behalf, the representative said Mr W had confirmed he 
wanted access to some funds to help him invest in properties, but LCL didnt explore 
alternatives with him. And it reiterated that argument in response to the first Investigators 
opinion. These arguments are contradictory.
Ive considered the available information from the time of the advice. The fact find, which 
Mr W signed a copy of, referred to Mr W wanting to self-invest in commercial property. The 
suitability report also made multiple references to Mr W looking to invest in commercial 
property. It also noted Mr W having extensive experience of the property market through his 
profession and said he would rather the investment of the pension be made in this area. And 
it also referred to Mr W not being in a position to wait, that hed considered other funding 
options and required the pension to be used for a property purchase which needed to be 
concluded in a short timescale. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr W challenged any of the 
information contained in the suitability report, or its accuracy, at the time.
Similar information about Mr Ws intentions for his pension was repeated when he later 
came to move his personal pensions. And when a property was eventually purchased using 
his pension, Mr W became the property manager for the SIPP  utilising his experience in 
that area.
Taking all of this into account, and again bearing in mind Mr W obtained information about 
the value of his pension before speaking to LCL, I think using his pension to invest in 
property was an objective of his before speaking to LCL.
Mr Ws representative has also said that he didnt want to take any risk with his pension. But 
again, I think he had already thought about investing his pension in property before speaking 
to LCL. And his relevant professional experience would, in my view, have meant that Mr W 
wouldve been aware this involved risk. LCL carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk. During this he seems to have self-
identified as having a medium high attitude to risk (7 or 8 on a scale of 1-10) as he signed a 
declaration confirming this reflected his view. The DB scheme pension does seem to have 
made up the majority of Mr Ws private retirement provisions. So, he didnt have significant 
capacity for loss, based on what Ive seen  although he was 23 years from when he 
expected to retire and could therefore take some risk. But the suitability report says, after 
further discussion, it was agreed that Mr Ws attitude to risk was more correctly summarised 
as medium, or 6 on a scale of 1-10. And based on what Ive seen from the time, I think LCL 
has assessed this fairly. So, contrary to what his representative argues, I think Mr W was 
willing to take risk with his pension, to achieve his objectives. 
Financial viability 
Mr W was asked to rank certain objectives relating to his pension in the attitude to risk 
questionnaire he completed and signed. And he said increasing his pension was the most 
important to him from the list of priorities.
LCL carried out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report (as required by the regulator). 
LCLs suitability report says a copy was provided to Mr W to consider. And Ive seen nothing 
to suggest he disputed this at the time. Which leads me to think, on balance, he was 
provided this information. The TVAS outlined the level of pension the DB scheme was 
expected to provide at retirement. And emphasised the benefits under the scheme were 
guaranteed. The TVAS also included a calculation of how much Mr Ws pension fund would 
need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme at 
retirement (the critical yield). The TVAS said that for retiring at age 65, which Mr W had 
indicated he expected to be the case, the critical yield was 5.2%. The suitability report later 
quoted this figure as 4.96%. But the reason for this difference is unclear based on the 
information Ive been provided.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate at the point of the advice for 23 years to retirement  the case if Mr W 
retired at 65  was 6.7% per year. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr W's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And here, even using the higher of the critical 
yields quoted, 5.2%, I think it was reasonable to say this was achievable, based on the 
position at the time. And so, it was fair for LCL to conclude Mr W was likely to receive 
benefits of a higher overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing 
in line with his attitude to risk.
With this in mind, I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was 
unsuitable for Mr W, bearing in mind his stated aim to increase his pension. And it also 
allowed him to achieve some of his other stated objectives.
Flexibility
LCL said Mr W was interested in having the flexibility to retire early if possible  although he 
didnt anticipate being in a position to do so.Mr W couldve taken benefits early under the DB scheme, if he had needed to retire early. 
These wouldve been reduced in comparison to those available at the scheme normal 
retirement age, as an actuarial reduction wouldve been applied. But he was able to take his 
pension early under the DB scheme if hed needed to.
As a result, and given he seems to have believed he was unlikely to retire early, I dont think 
Mr W had a genuine need for flexibility. 
But, as Ive already explained, it appears he was likely to improve on his retirement benefits 
by transferring. And I note the suitability report also looked at the critical yield required to 
match the benefits the DB scheme wouldve provided at age 60, which it said was 5%. The 
discount rate applicable at the time for 18 years to retirement was 6.5% and the regulators 
standard projections were the same as those already mentioned. So, it was reasonable to 
believe that Mr W would also have been able to improve on the benefits the DB scheme 
wouldve provided if retiring early by transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk. 
So, while I dont think he needed flexibility, I dont think the transfer disadvantaged Mr W, 
and it provided this option.
Death benefits
Mr W was married and had children. So, the death benefits provided by the DB scheme  
which included a spouse or dependents pension, couldve been useful to his family in the 
event of his death. But the fact-find and suitability report noted that, while Mr W had 
insurance in place that would cover his mortgage, he hadnt made any other provisions for 
his family and the option of leaving his pension as a lump sum appealed to him. 
LCLs role wasnt to put in place what Mr W mightve thought he wanted. But at the same 
time, the primary purpose of a pension is to provide for the holders retirement, rather than a 
legacy for their family. And so, in the circumstances, given it seemed likely Mr W wouldve 
been able to improve on his pension benefits by transferring, I dont think he was 
disadvantaged by also having access to alternative death benefits that he indicated 
appealed to him.
Control of investments
As Ive explained, Im satisfied that Mr W was interested in investing his pension in property 
and managing this. His representatives have said he didnt have any experience with 
investments or pensions. But he does seem to have had relevant experience with property 
management and relevant associated knowledge about risks, rental yields, returns etc. So, 
while he was unlikely to be in a position to manage standard investments on his own, I think 
he did have the relevant knowledge regarding property investment, to take an active role in 
manging this as an investment within his pension. And this is in fact what he appears to have 
done.
His representative has said that LCL didnt explore alternative ways Mr W couldve financed 
property investment. But the suitability report mentions that Mr W had already considered 
other options. And in any event, his objective appears to have been to invest his pension in 
this way  as it gave him control, in an area in which he had relevant knowledge. 
As a result, and again because it was a reasonable conclusion that Mr W could improve his 
pension benefits by transferring, I think this objective, and achieving it, was reasonable.  Summary
For the reasons Ive explained, I think the advice LCL gave Mr W to transfer the benefits 
from his DB scheme to a SIPP was suitable in the circumstances, at the time. He was likely, 
based on the assumptions at the time, to improve on the benefits which the DB scheme 
offered. And a transfer allowed him to achieve other objectives which I think he expressed 
an interest in. So, I dont think LCL has acted unfairly.
Im also satisfied that LCL explained that Mr W would be giving up guarantees by 
transferring. The recommendation letter included a section titled Loss of Guarantees and 
this outlined that by transferring the guarantees Mr W had through his DB scheme pension  
the deferred escalating pension that the transfer valuation he obtained referred to and which 
the suitability report also summarised  would be lost. And his pension would become 
subject to risk and dependent on investment performance, specifically relating to the 
investment property. 
Like our Investigator, I also think, even if LCL had advised Mr W not to proceed, he may 
have looked to do so anyway. He seems to have entered into the discussions with LCL with 
the intention of investing in property in mind. And he seems to have indicated to LCL that he 
was keen to do this promptly, as hed already identified a property that he was looking to 
purchase and there was a time pressure to proceed (although this purchase seems to have 
later fallen through). So, given I think he was keen to proceed and he had knowledge in the 
area in which he wanted to invest, he may have always looked to go ahead. But regardless, 
as Ive explained, I dont think the advice LCL provided him about his DB scheme pension 
was unsuitable.
2011 advice to transfer personal pensions
In June 2011, LCL advised Mr W to move the proceeds of two personal pensions he held, 
with a value totalling £7,798.61, to the SIPP that hed opened the year before. It said Mr W 
wanted to move these funds to increase the amount available to him for investing in 
property.
LCL ran an analysis that suggested the provider charges in the SIPP, 1% per annum, were 
marginally greater than he was incurring in his existing personal pensions. And the suitability 
report explained that Mr W was therefore moving to a more expensive contract overall. But 
Ive seen evidence that significant information had been gathered by that point regarding a 
potential commercial property purchase. So, Im satisfied Mr W had a genuine intention at 
that time to use these funds for the purpose stated. And his existing personal pensions did 
not provide him the opportunity to make the investment he wanted to. So, he had a genuine 
reason to move these pensions.
Mr Ws objective in terms of investment appears to have been in line with his attitude to risk. 
And the SIPP provided the same flexibility in terms of accessing pension benefits as the 
existing schemes. And, given Mr Ws intention to manage the property purchased through 
the SIPP himself, there was no cause for him to take ongoing advice.
Taking all of this into account, as Im satisfied Mr W intended to invest these pension funds 
in a way that he wasnt able to under his existing personal pensions, I think the advice to 
move these pensions was suitable for him. And again, given I think he had a firm intention to 
use the funds for the purpose stated  particularly bearing in mind has gone on to do so  I 
also think hed have likely always looked to proceed.Taking all of this into account, in the specific circumstances of Mr Ws complaint, I think the 
advice LCL provided Mr W in relation to moving his pensions and consolidating these within 
the SIPP to enable him to meet his investment objectives was suitable. So, I dont require it 
LCL to take any action here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman