DRN-2093983
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy 
What happened
In 1993 Mrs H took out a mortgage and the bank recommended she also take out PPI to 
protect her repayments. The PPI cost about £24 a month and would have paid out enough to 
cover her mortgage payments for up to three years in some circumstances, if Mrs H made a 
successful claim.
Mrs H says she was told she had no choice but to buy the PPI, even though she couldnt 
really afford it. And she had good sick pay at the time. Mrs H thinks the bank was wrong to 
sell her the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
Mrs Hs main concern is that she was told she had to have the PPI, even though she doesnt 
think it was suitable for her. Shes told us a lot about her circumstances at the time, and 
remembers the meeting she had when applying for the mortgage clearly.
Santander doesnt have any paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place nearly 30 years ago. I wouldnt expect either Mrs H or 
Santander to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what this service knows about how Santander sold PPI at the time, its likely Mrs H 
was given a choice about buying the PPI. Santander sent us a sample of the type of 
mortgage application form it was using around the time Mrs H got her mortgage. Theres a 
separate application for PPI, and an associated direct debit mandate. I think Santander did 
enough to show Mrs H that the PPI was optional and she didnt have to have it. 
Of course, this doesnt automatically mean the sale was conducted as it should have been. 
And Mrs H has given us a lot of information about her circumstances and her state of mind 
when she was applying for the mortgage. Im not going to go into the detail of what Mrs H 
told us, but in summary she really needed the mortgage, and she felt intimidated by the two 
men conducting the interview. 
I have great sympathy for Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, and its clear she remembers 
the meeting she had. But she hasnt said much about what she was told about the PPI  its 
more about the wider circumstances. Mrs H has also told us about some compulsory 
building insurance she was told she had to have. That sort of insurance very often is 
compulsory. It seems to me that its possible that this is what Mrs H remembers and thought 
it applied to the PPI as well. That would be entirely understandable after so long.
Pressure is a very subjective thing, and I cant know exactly what was said to Mrs H at the 
time. But without some further tangible evidence, I cant say Ive seen enough to safely 
conclude Mrs H was pressured into buying the PPI.
Santander says it advised Mrs H to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to ensure that it 
met her needs. From what I know of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, I think the policy was 
suitable for her.
- Mrs H was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like she would have been affected by 
any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. 
- Mrs H would have received some sick pay if she couldnt work. But this policy would pay 
on top of these benefits and for considerably longer than Mrs H would likely get her full 
salary. A mortgage is a big commitment, and although Mrs H says she went without to 
pay for it, shes also told us how important it was to her to stay in her home. This policy 
could have given her some additional reassurance shed be able to keep it if she couldnt 
work for an extended period of time or was made redundant.
- Santander needed to give Mrs H enough information for her to make an informed choice 
about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when she was told what the PI would cost. 
But I do think shed have known it cost something. The policy was competitively priced 
and I dont think when Mrs H first knew the cost affected her decision to buy the PPI. 
- Its possible that Santander could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused her to 
change her mind about buying the policy. 
On balance, and taking everything into account, I dont think theres enough evidence to 
persuade me this policy was mis-sold.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman