DRN-3786383
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc blocked a payment he wanted to make from his 
account. Hes also unhappy that Santander closed his account and says the bank gave him 
conflicting information. 
What happened
Mr S had a basic account with Santander. 
In September 2021 Mr S attempted to make a payment from his Santander account to an 
account he held with another bank. But Santander blocked the payment to carry out extra 
checks. Whilst it did this the bank restricted Mr Ss account. Following this Santander 
decided to close Mr Ss account and gave him 30 days notice to make alternative banking 
arrangements.
Mr S says he explained to Santander that the payment was being made to his own account. 
But that each time he called the bank to find out what was happening with the payment he 
was told something different about why the payment hadnt been made. Mr S says he was 
kept on hold for long periods of time and on one occasion had his call cut off. Mr S says 
Santanders actions made his health condition worse and caused him anxiety. He wants 
Santander to reopen his account.
Santander accepts that Mr Ss payment was stopped. It says that additional checks were 
carried out in order to meet its legal and regulatory requirements. The bank says it closed 
Mr Ss account in line with the terms and relevant regulations. And that it didnt provide Mr S 
with contradictory information when he called the bank. Mr S wasnt happy with this 
outcome. So, he brought his complaint to us. 
An investigator looked at Mr Ss complaint. She said Santander had acted in line with its 
processes when it blocked Mr Ss account. Mr S disagreed. He said Santander lied to him 
about why it blocked his account and stopped the payment. So, the complaint has come to 
me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from what 
hes said to us and to Santander. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ss frustration, its important to point 
out that the only thing in question here is whether Santander has done what it should have 
done and treated Mr S fairly. And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Mr S has said he is concerned that the investigator is biased and has simply sided 
with the bank  with the implication being that the bank is influencing our conclusions 
inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach 
is to consider what both parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that 
evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint. If Mr S does not agree with our view, 
he does not have to accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision he will be free to 
continue to pursue his concerns by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, 
advise him on how to go about doing that.
I think its useful to explain that Santander has a wide range of legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing account services to its customers. In order to meet 
these obligations, Santander is required to have measures in place to review payments. As 
part of its review process Santander is entitled to ask a customer for more information and 
conduct additional checks.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Santander was within its rights to review 
the payment Mr S wanted to make and ask him for information in relation to it. It did so in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. And having reviewed the terms and conditions of the 
account, it did so in line with these too. So, whilst I can appreciate that having the payment 
stopped caused Mr S some frustration, I cant say Santander did anything wrong 
when it stopped the payment.
Having looked at all the evidence, I also dont believe it was unreasonable in the 
circumstances for Santander to block Mr Ss account. Santander has explained that this was 
its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Santander were 
complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions 
caused Mr S inconvenience when it restricted his account, I cant say the bank treated him 
unfairly in taking the actions it did. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ss account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case, 
Santander closed Mr Ss account with 30 days notice. Having looked at all the information 
available to me, that was reasonable. And Im satisfied it did so in line with the terms and 
relevant regulations. So, I wont be asking Santander to reopen Mr Ss account. I can also 
see that at the time Mr S had access to another bank account, So, whilst I appreciate this 
caused him trouble and upset, I think the impact would have been reduced. 
Mr S is also unhappy about the service he received from Santander when he called the bank 
to find out what was happening with his account and the payment. He says when he called 
Santander, he was given different explanations about what was happening and believes the 
bank lied to him about what it was doing.
Ive listened to the available call recordings of the conversations Mr S had with the bank. 
Having done so, I dont agree that Mr S was given different information. Each time he called 
an advisor clearly told Mr S that the payment he wanted to make was subject to additional 
checks that were being carried out by its security and fraud team. I note too that the advisor 
apologised for any upset having to wait during calls caused Mr S. I havent seen any 
evidence that Santander deliberately cut off Mr Ss calls. So, I think this is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Mr Ss complaint. And, while I appreciate Mr S 
wont agree, I wont be asking it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman