DRN-4384894
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt 
with a claim they made under their home insurance policy for a drain problem.
Reference to RSA includes its agents and representatives.
Mr G has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
The water pipe supplying Mr Gs property runs a long way under fields until it reaches 
his water meter.
In September 2021, he was notified by an owner of one of the fields that the pipe 
appeared to be leaking. He also noticed his water meter increasing rapidly. He got in 
touch with RSA, who appointed C, a drainage contractor, to look into the problem.
Over the course of several visits, C investigated, said it found the source of the leak, 
and put it right by re-routing pipework. Mr G paid a £300 excess towards the work.
After, Mr G said there was still a leak. C visited again and said there were no issues 
with its previous work. It said it had found a second leak but it wasnt covered by the 
policy because it had been caused by wear and tear. Mr G didnt think was fair. He 
didnt think C had found the second leak or shown why it was the result of wear and 
tear when the first leak wasnt.
Several months later, RSA responded to Mr Gs complaint. It said it had asked C to 
deal with the second leak and charged Mr G a £250 excess. RSA conceded it had 
taken too long to reach this stage and offered Mr G £300 compensation.
C returned and replaced a section of pipe. Mr G said he checked the water meter 
before and after Cs work and a leak of the same magnitude continued. So he wasnt 
convinced C had identified and resolved the second leak. RSA said C had dealt with 
the second leak. So if there was a problem, it must be a third leak  and that wasnt 
covered by the policy because it was wear and tear.
Mr G turned to two contractors, who Ill call A and B. Both provided quotes for various 
ways of resolving the problem. Mr G says both thought it likely that the second leak 
hadnt been identified and resolved by C, but I understand neither put that in writing. 
Similarly, he recalls both saying the condition of the pipe was excellent, so it seemed 
unlikely a leak had been caused by wear and tear. RSA didnt change its position.
Mr G referred his complaint to this Service. He made the following key points:
oAs RSA declined to help further, Mr G asked A to investigate the matter. It 
found a leaking section of pipe near the meter. Its the responsibility of the 
local water company and they have paid to fix it.
oMr G says A found that the leak persisted when bypassing the section 
replaced by RSA. There may have been a second leak  but not a third  and 
C didnt resolve the second leak. So he thinks RSA should refund the second 
excess he paid.
oHe also said A thought C had used differing diameters of pipework when 
replacing sections and that introduced more risk of a future leak. It had also 
laid the new pipe too close to the ground to resist the risk of frost.
oThe problem arose in September 2021 and over a year later it was still 
unresolved. It was only resolved in late 2022 because he took action. It has 
caused him enormous distress and wasted a lot of time, particularly as he had 
to chase RSA and C repeatedly.
oHis water bills were higher than usual as a result of a prolonged leak. The 
local water company only agreed to lowering the bills once the leak had been 
fixed, which left Mr G in an uncertain position for over a year.
oWhen C replaced a section of pipe, it left the ground open as it said it would 
return to do more work. It didnt return, so the ground remained open until A 
put it right.
oRSA has paid C nearly £10,000 on this claim. Had C correctly identified the 
second leak and asked the local water company to pay for it, the claim cost 
would have been reduced. When he renewed the policy in September 2022, 
the premium increased considerably as a result of the claim cost. He would 
like the claim removed and the premium reduced.
oTo get a quote from B, he had to pay £120. He wouldnt have had to do this if 
RSA had agreed to deal with the problem.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for 
RSA to rely on what C had said about the number of leaks, the work carried out, and 
the condition of the pipe  particularly as Mr G hadnt provided any evidence from A 
or B to challenge it.
Mr G disagreed. He reiterated some of the points above, which I wont repeat, and 
made further key points:
oNo evidence has been provided to show the pipe was in poor condition and/or 
suffering from wear and tear. Whereas hes provided photos showing sections 
of the pipe in good condition.
oIf C were correct, it would mean as soon as it repaired the second leak, a 
third leak appeared immediately afterward in another area. This is very 
unlikely. Its much more likely that it didnt identify the second leak accurately.
oRSA failed to respond in full when he asked for information, including about a 
Subject Access Request (SAR) and Freedom of Information enquiry (FOI).The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers accidental breakage of drains and pipes. Theres no dispute the 
leaks amount to accidental breakage and are covered by the policy subject to any 
relevant exclusions.
The policy contains an exclusion for any damage caused by or resulting from wear 
and tear. The onus is on RSA to show damage has been caused in this way in order 
to rely on it to decline a claim or part of a claim.
As I understand it, the position reached now is that the drainage system is no longer 
leaking. Work has been carried out and paid for by C and the local water company. 
Mr G isnt out of pocket for any of this work. And no further work is required to deal 
with a leak at this time.
The key dispute remaining is about how RSA handled the claim and the impact it had 
on Mr G, financially and otherwise. So thats what Ill focus on.
Did RSA handle the claim fairly?
Most of the reason for the length of the claim is the dispute about how many leaks 
they were and whether any were caused by wear and tear.
RSAs position is that there were three leaks. C resolved the first two but it declined 
to take action with the third as it thought the damage was due to wear and tear.
Mr G suspects there may only have been one leak, though he accepts he has little 
evidence to show there wasnt a second. But he strongly disagrees there was a third. 
He thinks C failed to identify and resolve the second leak when it replaced a length of 
pipe. This is based on checking the leakage level before and after C carried out that 
work  and testing by A. He doesnt think wear and tear played a part at all.
The first leak was accepted without relying on, or even mentioning, the wear and tear 
policy term. Whilst C said the second leak was caused by wear and tear, RSA 
disagreed and accepted it too. If there was a third leak, its not clear why it would 
have been caused by wear and tear when the others werent. I cant see that C ever 
identified where the supposed third leak was, so I dont understand how it was able 
to determine the cause of it.
RSA hasnt provided any compelling evidence to show any damage has been caused 
by wear and tear. It seems to be relying solely on Cs opinion. Ive looked at Cs 
reports. They say: leaks are deemed to be wear and tear and pipe  is in a very 
poor condition. Thats the extent of its commentary and evidence on this point. I 
havent seen any explanation for why C reached this conclusion, or photos to show 
the condition. I dont find this persuasive.RSA said that because the pipe leaked whenever a repair was carried out, that 
showed it was suffering from wear and tear. But it hasnt shown that the pipe did leak 
whenever a repair was carried out. It made this assumption on the basis there were 
three leaks  but it hasnt provided evidence to show there were three leaks.
The steps Mr G and A took to check the impact of C replacing a section of pipe 
strongly suggest that its work didnt resolve the second leak. RSA has only shown 
the pipe had two leaks, neither of which it thought were caused by wear and tear.
Overall, Im not persuaded RSA has shown there was any wear and tear or that there 
was a third leak. Nor am I persuaded the work it carried out resolved the second 
leak. As a result, Im not satisfied it handled the claim fairly.
What impact did this have on Mr G?
This claim went on for far longer than it ought to have done. It took RSA months to 
decide the second leak should be covered. And when Mr G questioned whether it 
had resolved the second leak, further delays arose due to the assumptions RSA 
made. Its clear Mr G had to chase RSA and C many times, often being referred by 
one party to the other and back again. The delays meant the leak went unresolved 
for a long time, causing Mr G inconvenience, frustration, and prolonged uncertainty 
about how much he would have to pay for his water bills.
Whilst RSA has recognised its poor service by offering £300 compensation, Im not 
satisfied that goes far enough to put right the impact of it mistakes. Bearing in mind 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G by RSAs mistakes, I think this should 
be increased to £600. If RSA has already paid £300, it need only pay a further £300.
Mr G was left with no choice but to turn to contractors when RSA declined to help 
him further. But I dont think that means RSA should reimburse Mr G the cost of Bs 
quote. Its uncommon to be charged for a quote for work of this nature. Indeed, A 
didnt charge for it. So Im not satisfied it was necessary for Mr G to pay for this.
Mr G says A thought C had used varying pipe diameters in its work and laid the pipe 
too close to the ground. He thinks these problems present a risk and should be put 
right. That may be the case but without sight of a professional opinion to support 
these findings and recommendations, Im not satisfied it would be fair to require RSA 
to take any further action at this time. Mr G is entitled to obtain such an opinion and 
share it with RSA. If so, I would expect it to consider whether it should take further 
action to ensure the work it completed amounts to an effective and lasting repair.
After C replaced a length of pipe, Mr G says it left the ground open and agreed to 
return  but didnt. Cs report says it reinstated the ground. Photos taken by Mr G 
suggest otherwise. But I understand A reinstated the ground at no cost to Mr G, so 
Im satisfied this point is resolved and needs no further consideration.
As RSA didnt resolve the second leak, I dont think Mr G should have had to pay an 
excess for it. So RSA should refund the £250 he paid for it.
At the 2022 policy renewal, Mr Gs premium increased by around 60%, from £436.42 
to £716.11. And in 2023, it increased by another 50%, to £1,078.60. Mr G thinks that 
if RSA had handled the claim fairly, there would have been less impact on the 
premium. He says C should have identified that the leak was on a section of pipe 
owned by the local water company. And had it done so, there would have been no cost to RSA. He would like his claim removed from his claim record and for his 
premiums to be reduced accordingly.
RSA has told us it has recorded two claims  one for the first leak and one for the 
second. Given what Ive found above, I dont think a second claim should be 
recorded as RSA didnt identify and deal with a second leak. But Im satisfied its fair 
and accurate to record one claim because there was a leak problem on the pipework.
Whilst Mr G has his concerns that there was only ever one leak  and that was on 
the section owned by the local water authority  theres no evidence to support this. 
As it stands, the evidence suggests there was a leak on another section and C 
carried out work to re-route the pipe to deal with this. So, that means the claim would 
always have had some cost attached to it even if C dealt with things as it should have 
done. From Cs reports, I estimate it would have been around £5,000, rather than the 
£10,000 or so thats been recorded.
To put things right, RSA should remove the second claim from any internal and 
external databases to present an accurate reflection of what happened. Whilst its 
unable to amend the claim cost  as that would be inaccurate  it can manually 
calculate the renewal premiums using a figure of £5,000 for the claim cost. It could 
recalculate the 2022 and 2023 premiums on this basis and do so for the following 
three years (claims tend to only be taken into account for five years). However, this 
leaves things open-ended and doesnt take into account the impact of the claim cost 
if Mr G were to move to a different insurer.
I think it would be more pragmatic for RSA to pay an appropriate amount to cover the 
likely impact of the problem over these five years and bring finality to this point. Its 
been asked to provide some underwriting information to help with this, but hasnt 
done so. That leaves me to estimate an appropriate amount.
Its likely Mr Gs premium would always have increased at the renewals due to 
general home insurance inflation, particularly with the recent rise in the cost of 
building work generally. And registering the claim would likely have increased that 
further. That means most of the increase at the 2022 would likely have happened 
even if things had been handled better.
Similarly, some of the increase at the 2023 renewal would likely have happened 
regardless. Also, with the second claim removed, the increases at future renewals 
are likely to be lessened than what Mr G has seen so far. Bearing all of this in mind, I 
think a figure of £500 is an appropriate amount for the five year period.
Mr G has mentioned problems with the information provided by RSA in response to a 
SAR and FOI he submitted to gather evidence to support his complaint. Our 
investigator has directed Mr G to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to take 
these matters further. I understand the ICO is the most appropriate organisation to 
deal with these problems, so I wont consider them or comment on them further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision.Mr G said he didnt agree with all the points I made but was overall prepared to accept my 
provisional decision and had no further points to make.
He asked for RSA to show him that its removed the second claim from any internal and 
external databases. I think thats a reasonable request. So once RSA has removed it, it 
should share evidence with Mr G to show that.
As neither party has challenged or commented on any of the points I made in my provisional 
decision, I dont think I need to consider or discuss them further. I remain satisfied my 
findings are fair and reasonable for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd to:
Pay a total of £600 compensation.
Refund the £250 excess.
Remove the second claim from any internal and external databases.
Pay £500 for increased premium costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman