DRN-3302020
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Ald Automotive 
Limited (Ald) had a design flaw that made it of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Ald, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Mr G says that because the badge, which incorporated the front radar for the car, was easily 
unclipped and stolen, it was of unsatisfactory quality. 
I dont agree that s the case. I think its reasonable to suggest that many external 
components of a car could be stolen if a thief had a mind to do so e.g. the wheels, but I dont 
think that in itself would render a car of unsatisfactory quality. Theres no suggestion here 
that the car supplied by Ald was any different than others of the same make and model so I 
wouldnt think it was fair to consider it faulty.
Mr G says that he couldnt complain to the manufacturer about the issue as the car didnt 
belong to him: Ald were the registered owners. I accept that was likely to be the case, but I 
dont think Ald had to raise a complaint on Mr Gs behalf and this service has no power to 
ask them to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman