DRN-3919276
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Unum Limited declined the claim he made under his employers 
group income protection policy.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to the parties so I wont repeat them in detail here. 
In summary Mr H became absent from work in January 2021 and was signed off by a GP 
and referred to occupational health and a consultant psychiatrist. He reported struggling with 
his mental health. 
Unum didnt accept Mr Hs claim. It concluded that Mr H had a stress related disorder and 
that he didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. 
Our investigator agreed. Mr H appealed. He provided further comments from his psychiatrist 
which were shared with Unum, however it didnt change its previous conclusion. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision on 23 December 2022. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive set out the background in less detail than the parties and havent responded to every 
point made  although I have taken everything into account. Ive focused on what I find is the 
key issue here, our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Unum has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
In this case the financial benefit under the policy will be paid if a member is incapacitated 
throughout the 26 week deferred period. 
Under the policy a member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and 
substantial duties of their insured occupation because of illness or injury. 
When making a claim, its for Mr H to demonstrate that he met the definition of incapacity as 
defined by the policy terms. Ive carefully considered all the medical evidence and 
representations in this case in order to see whether he did so and in turn whether, in my 
opinion, Unum fairly and reasonably declined Mr Hs claim. 
It isnt disputed that Mr H was signed off by a GP as being unfit to work during the deferred 
period. There isnt any detail given as to the reason he was signed off, but nevertheless he 
was and by a qualified doctor. From the evidence Ive seen this appears to be until March 
2021. This alone wouldnt demonstrate he met the policy definition but he was also referred 
to occupational health and to a consultant psychiatrist Ill refer to as Dr D. 
The occupational health physician had three appointments with Mr H. These were in 
February, March and April 2021. She consistently found Mr H unfit for work due to his 
medical status. 
Dr D commenced Mr H on medication and referred him for cognitive behavioural therapy. 
His medication was subsequently changed, and he had eleven sessions of therapy. He then 
had several consultations with a second consultant psychiatrist  Dr C. 
Dr C concluded that Mr H had had a stress induced episode of a major depressive disorder 
which had some response to the prescribed medication, but the side effects led him to 
coming off it. Dr C commented that a trial of this drug had been associated with profound 
side effects. He made further clinical and therapeutic suggestions but said that Mr H's 
environmental situation was likely to be the most significant factor in his current situation. He 
suspected that when Mr H found employment in a more convivial setting it would go a long 
way to treating and maintaining any improvement. 
By the end of the deferred period, July 2021, Mr H was still under the care of Dr C, with a 
plan to remain on medication and have CB therapy. 
In September 2021 Dr C clarified his earlier report, if clarification was needed. He said that it 
was the symptoms of depression that meant Mr H was unable to work  either for his 
employer or elsewhere. Unums Company Medical Officer, who has a background in 
psychiatry, then reviewed the file as well as the updated report from Dr C but didnt find the 
content altered its understanding of Mr Hs restrictions and limitations during the deferred 
period. 
This has not been a straightforward case to determine  there are persuasive arguments 
from both parties. Unum feels that Mr Hs level of activity including training for a masters 
degree does not show that his ability to function was impaired by way of a mental health 
condition. 
However the medical evidence does clearly show that Mr H was diagnosed with a mental 
health condition and because of his condition he was deemed unfit to work. So I find that Mr 
H has provided sufficient medical evidence to show he met the policy definition of incapacity.
That Mr H was able to attend the gym, code or study for a masters doesnt persuade me that 
he was able to perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation. Mr Hs 
evidence is that his work involved long hours and substantial pressure. I accept that his 
workplace impacted Mr Hs mental health. But the medical evidence demonstrates that this 
resulted in mental illness, rather than work related stress. It follows that Im minded to 
conclude this illness prevented Mr H from working through and beyond the deferred period. 
In all the circumstances I dont currently find it was reasonable of Unum to decline Mr Hs 
claim.  
I explained that I was minded to uphold the complaint and require Unum to accept the claim. 
I invited both parties to make further comments or submit evidence. Mr H had nothing to 
add. 
Unum responded. It didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary it said that 
whether a diagnosis of a condition is made or not, this wouldnt qualify as a payable claim 
under the terms of the policy. It said that Mr Hs reported level of activity didnt support that 
his cognitive function had been impaired. 
Unums Company Medical Office did not find that Dr C offered any substantial evidence of 
the details of functional impairment associated with mental illness, and the current evidence showed that he was able to engage in various activities during the deferred period. 
Unum noted too that according to the medical notes Mr Hs mental state improved without 
medication or on a low dose of medication. It didnt think that the evidence from the deferred 
period supported an impairment of global functioning.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive re-visited all the medical evidence and Unums submissions. Having done so Im not 
persuaded to change my provisional findings. I acknowledged in my provisional findings that 
Mr H was able to function at some cognitive level, but that alone isnt sufficient to 
demonstrate that he was able to perform his insured occupation. 
His treating psychiatrist was clear in his professional opinion that Mr H was not fit to work 
because of his illness during the relevant period. This opinion was corroborated by that of 
the occupational health physician (reports February/March/April 2021) a private physician 
(reports January/February 2021) and Dr D.
I havent disregarded the comments of Unums Company Medical Officer and Im grateful for 
the further review. But the weight of the medical evidence before me continues to persuade 
me that Mr H was incapacitated by his depressive illness and unable to perform his insured 
occupation during the deferred period and beyond.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional findings, which I adopt here, I uphold this 
complaint.
I require UNUM Limited to accept Mr Hs claim and pay benefit in accordance with the 
remaining policy terms. Unum should add interest to the benefit payments at the simple 
yearly rate of 8% per calculated from the date each payment was due until settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman