DRN-2474216
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsbury's Bank plc wont refund to him the money that he paid for a 
mattress.
 
What happened
Mr P used his Sainsburys Bank credit card in June 2019 to pay £998 for a bed and a 
mattress. The price of the mattress was £699. He returned the mattress to the retailer 
because it was faulty and he was provided with a replacement mattress  but it was of a 
different specification. The replacement mattress wasnt turnable so he complained to the 
retailer. It refused to replace the mattress with one that was turnable so Mr P claimed a 
refund from Sainsburys Bank of the £699 that hed paid for the mattress under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
It said that it was unable to review Mr Ps claim under section 75 as it looks at the original 
contractual purchase, in this case the original mattress, and the retailer had offered a 
suitable remedy for the original defective mattress by way of a replacement. But in 
recognition of the inconvenience that hed been caused, it offered him a payment of £50, of 
which £25 was for the delay in responding to his complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that there had been a 
misrepresentation by the retailer and that Mr P agreed to the replacement mattress with the 
information he was provided. So she recommended that it should pay him £699 and rework 
his account.
Sainsburys Bank has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that Mr P visited the store, viewed the mattress (which was advertised as non-turnable) and 
discussed it with a sales rep  and misunderstood rotating instead of turning - but that there 
was no breach of contract or misrepresentation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint about Sainsburys Bank, I must be satisfied 
that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer and that 
Sainsburys Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable 
 but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ps claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that;
I consider it to be clear from the evidence that Mr P has provided that he wanted a 
turnable mattress because of the medical advice that hed received;
the original mattress that was sold to him was turnable and would have been 
suitable for his needs - but there was a fault with it so the retailed agreed to replace 
it;
I consider that it was reasonable for Mr P to expect that the replacement mattress 
provided to him would also be turnable as that had been an important consideration 
for him when he was buying the first mattress  and which he had communicated to 
the retailer;
I consider that the retailer ought reasonably to have known that Mr P required a 
turnable mattress and to have supplied him with a replacement mattress that was 
turnable;
the replacement mattress that was supplied to Mr P clearly wasnt turnable so 
wasnt suitable for his needs and I dont consider that he would have agreed for that 
mattress to be supplied to him to replace the original mattress if hed known that it 
wasnt turnable;
I consider that the retailer breached its contact with Mr P when it supplied him with a 
faulty mattress and then replaced that mattress with a mattress that wasnt turnable;
I dont consider that Sainsburys Banks response to Mr Ps claim has been fair and 
reasonable and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to take the actions 
described below; and
Sainsburys Bank has paid £50 to Mr P because of the inconvenience that hes been 
caused, of which £25 was for its delay in dealing with his complaint  I find that to be 
fair and reasonable and Im not persuaded that a further award of compensation is 
justified in these circumstances.
Putting things right
I find that Mr Sainsburys Bank should refund the price of the mattress to Mr P by reworking 
his credit card account as if the payment of £998 had been a payment of £299 as described 
in more detail below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I order Sainsburys Bank plc to:
1. Rework Mr Ps credit card account as if the payment in June 2019 of £998 had been 
a payment of £299, and - if that puts the account into credit - to pay interest at an 
annual rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account was in 
credit. It should also refund the credit balance to Mr P.
2. If Mr P has repaid the £998 to Sainsburys Bank but doesnt have a credit balance, to 
pay interest on the amount that he has repaid (up to £699) at an annual rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Sainsburys Bank to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Sainsburys Bank must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman