DRN-4473289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the assistance provided by Aviva Insurance Limited on their 
travel insurance policy (the policy) when repatriating back to the UK.
All references to Aviva include its medical emergency team. 
What happened
When abroad on holiday with Mr B in March 2023, Mrs B became injured. She was taken to 
hospital for treatment and discharged a few days later. 
After Mrs B had been discharged, Mr B contacted Aviva to tell them what had happened. 
Aviva said it would assist Mr and Mrs B with repatriation back to the UK.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how repatriation was handled, and the assistance provided. 
They complained to Aviva. In its final response letter, Aviva concluded that, overall, it had 
acted fairly. However, it accepted that there were times when it couldve better 
communicated with Mr and Mrs B and offered £100 compensation.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
didnt think Aviva had to do anything more to put things right. Mr and Mrs B disagreed. So, 
their complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has an obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle insurance claims fairly 
and promptly. 
Just so everyone is clear, I know Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy that the claim made under 
the policy hasnt been paid in full. However, that is the subject of a separate final response 
letter issued by Aviva and has been dealt with as a separate complaint by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be very disappointed, but I dont think Aviva has to do 
anything more to put things right in this case. Ill explain why.
I know before contacting Aviva to tell it about Mrs Bs injury, Mr and Mrs B had 
already arranged return flights back to the UK for around two days later. However, 
the policy terms and conditions say: you must phone the emergency medical 
assistance helpline before you make any arrangement if an injury or illness means 
that youneed to seek emergency medical advice or, if unable to do so, as soon as 
possible after you go into hospital. Mr and Mrs B say they didnt realise this was 
support available under the policy. However, the policy terms are clear. And if Mr and 
Mrs B contacted Aviva when they reasonably should have, its likely they wouldve 
been told not to book/rearrange flights back to the UK, until Mrs B was medically 
deemed fit to fly. So, they wouldnt have incurred the cost of rebooking the flights. I 
dont think I can reasonably hold Aviva responsible for the additional costs incurred 
rearranging the original return flights. 
When agreeing to provide assistance to repatriate Mr and Mrs B back to the UK, I 
dont think Aviva acted unreasonably by saying it needed to ensure that Mrs B was fit 
to fly before doing so. During the initial conversation on 25 March 2023, Im satisfied 
Mr B told Aviva that the treating doctor hadnt confirmed that Mrs B was fit to fly. 
I think it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to wait for confirmation that Mrs B was fit 
to fly before making further arrangements to repatriate her and Mr B home. Im 
satisfied thats standard industry practice. And until it was medically confirmed that 
she was fit to fly, it wouldnt know  for example - whether it was even safe for Mrs B 
to fly home, any risks involved or if she needed any specific assistance.
Shortly after the call, Mr B provided Mrs Bs hospital discharge report to Aviva and it 
required translation. Even if the report should have been translated sooner than it 
was, on the balance of probabilities and because of the sequence of events which 
happened after, I dont think this delayed Mrs Bs repatriation back to the UK. 
The hospital discharge report didnt confirm that Mrs B was fit to fly; only that Mrs B 
required a follow up consultation at the traumatology and orthopedics unit on 6 April 
2023.
Im satisfied that Aviva promptly arranged for a medic to visit Mrs B to report on 
whether she was fit to fly. On 28 March 2023, the medic advised that she was and 
didnt list any specific requirements to assist with repatriation. The medic also 
reported no signs of thromboembolism.
Aviva also wanted to arrange for some blood tests to be undertaken (to test Mrs Bs 
hemoglobin levels) and vital signs checked. From my experience, thats because low 
hemoglobin levels may impact on the advice to repatriate and/or further assistance 
required. In principle, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to want to check this. 
From its system notes, Im satisfied that it was proactively looking into options for 
tests to be undertaken but when Mr and Mrs B declined to attend a hospital to have 
these done, Aviva decided to arrange for a search of available flights to repatriate 
them home. 
Im satisfied from Avivas system notes that its medical team included certain 
requirements to assist with Mrs Bs repatriation, including Mrs B having two seats to 
herself and wheelchair assistance. Although this wasnt mentioned by the medic who 
provided the fit to fly certificate, I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to act on the 
advice of its medical team, for the benefit of Mrs B.
Im satisfied return flights were available for 31 March 2023. However, Mr and Mrs B 
asked whether there were other options available returning to a specific airport. Aviva 
arranged for a further search and Mr and Mrs B agreed to a return flight on 1 April 
2023. I dont think Aviva unreasonably delayed locating and booking that flight for 
them.
Im sorry to hear of the issues Mrs B had after boarding the plane, including the 
difficulties getting her to her seat and the arm rest. However, I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Aviva responsible for what happened on the plane. That 
was outside of its control. 
Im also sorry to hear of the issues Mr and Mrs B had getting home from the airport 
once they arrived back in the UK. I can understand why this would be very frustrating 
and upsetting. Im satisfied that Aviva did arrange for a suitable vehicle to meet them on arrival. However, it isnt responsible for the actions of the vehicle provider and 
whether it did send a vehicle to collect them. I can understand why Mr and Mrs B 
opted to make alternative arrangements but as it didnt contact Aviva before doing 
so, Aviva didnt have an opportunity to check at the time why the vehicle hadnt 
turned up or arrange for other transport back home for Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B also say that when being transported to the airport whilst abroad to get 
their return flight home, they didnt receive any assistance. However, Ive seen a note 
of a call on 30 March 2023 between Avivas medical nurse and Mr and Mrs B which 
reflects that Mrs B was able to mobilise with a frame and support. She was able to 
move around the accommodation. So, in light of this and in the absence of medical 
opinion from the time reflecting that Mrs B required more support when getting in and 
out of a vehicle, I dont think Aviva unfairly arranged the type of vehicle it did to 
transport them to the airport.
Aviva accepts that there was, at times, a lack of communication when providing assistance 
and Mr and Mrs B were still abroad. Im satisfied from Avivas system notes that Mr B called 
a number of times worried about the lack of update, particularly before repatriation. I can 
understand why this upset and frustrated Mr and Mrs B at an already difficult time. Aviva has 
offered £100 compensation to recognise this. Im satisfied this amount fairly and reasonably 
reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr and Mrs B not receiving regular 
updates about what was going on at the time.
Putting things right
I understand from Aviva that the offer of £100 compensation set out in the final response 
letter wasnt accepted so hasnt been paid. That being the case, Im satisfied that Aviva 
should pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience its already 
offered.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to Mr and Mrs B to settle the 
complaint and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. My decision is that Aviva Insurance 
Limited should pay £100 to Mr and Mrs B if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman