DRN-3401360
The complaint
Mr M complains that Rightmove Landlord and Tenant Services Limited made unsolicited 
phone calls to him to try and sell insurance products. Mr M says these calls were a nuisance 
and caused him inconvenience.
What happened
Our investigator initially said we couldnt consider this complaint because Mr M wasnt an 
eligible complainant. However, upon further review she said we could  and Rightmove 
hasnt objected to us looking into it. 
Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive summarised events 
below.
Mr M is a landlord. Rightmove has provided tenant reference services to Mr Ms 
managing agent.
On 1 November 2021, Rightmove telephoned Mr M for marketing purposes. 
On 3 November 2021, a note was added to Rightmoves system saying it wasnt to 
contact Mr M again.
Rightmove has explained that its staff member didnt screen Mr Ms telephone 
number against its telephone preference service  which led to him being called. It 
has apologised for this and said itll review its processes to ensure it doesnt happen 
again. 
Rightmove has confirmed that Mr Ms request not to be contacted for marketing 
purposes has been recorded and that it will not contact him again on this basis 
unless he provides explicit consent.
Mr M remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator 
was satisfied there had only been one call and that this hadnt caused Mr M material 
distress or inconvenience, and so she didnt think compensation was warranted.
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. Whilst I acknowledge 
Mr Ms point that he shouldnt have been contacted by Rightmove for marketing purposes, I 
have to keep in mind  when deciding whether compensation is warranted - that contact was 
limited to one, possibly two calls at most. And I must balance this with the fact Rightmove 
quickly put a stop to the possibility of further calls occurring by updating its system notes 
soon after being made aware that Mr M was unhappy. It has also apologised for its mistake, 
which is what Id expect it to do.  
So overall, whilst I appreciate Mr M was frustrated at having received a marketing call, Im 
not persuaded the inconvenience or distress was such that Rightmove should pay him 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman