DRN-3459305
The complaint
Mrs P complains about advice she received from Phoenix Life Limited when taking out a 
whole of life policy in the early 1990s.
Mrs P is being represented in her complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). For 
ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mrs P.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. The issue Mrs P brought to us is about how Phoenix has offered to resolve the 
complaint. So I will concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
- Mrs P took out a whole of life policy after speaking with Phoenix in the early 1990s. 
Phoenix looked into the sale and werent able to justify the recommendation for a 
whole of life plan so upheld the complaint saying a fixed term critical illness policy 
wouldve been more suitable. And looking at all the available evidence I agree this is 
a fair and reasonable outcome.
- The documentation from the time of the sale shows that Mrs P was looking for critical 
illness cover, which she has also confirmed when bringing the complaint. There was 
some life protection already in place, but not for critical illness so a whole of life policy 
didnt meet this need. Taking this, and all the available information from the time of 
sale into account, I agree that a fixed term critical illness policy wouldve been more 
suitable than the whole of life policy which was taken out.
- To resolve the complaint Phoenix calculated the cost of a fixed term assurance policy 
over 24 years and compared that to the premiums Mrs P had paid. They then 
deducted the surrender value Mrs P had already received when the whole of life 
policy was cashed in. This calculation showed that Mrs P hadnt suffered a financial 
loss due to what happened.
- Mrs P says that a 24 year term isnt appropriate for the calculations because the 
whole of life policy was cashed in before that term. Having looked at the information 
from the time of sale I think making a calculation using a 24 year term is appropriate 
as it wouldve taken Mrs P up until around her expected retirement age. I dont think 
this is an unusual way of making such calculations.
- Mrs P also says that Phoenix should be deducting the actual cost of cover rather 
than the cost of a fixed term policy. However, I dont agree. I think, in this particular 
set of circumstances, comparing a fixed term policy to the whole of life policy is a fair 
and reasonable way of calculating any redress.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Phoenix have resolved 
the complaint in a fair and reasonable way, so I wont be asking them to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman