DRN-3484935
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Apple Distribution International (Apple) sold him an insurance 
policy which it later cancelled without telling him.
What happened
Mr A bought a watch on an online marketplace. He then contacted Apple to take out a policy 
to cover his watch. Several months later, Mr A checked his policy online and saw it had been 
cancelled. When he complained, Apple told Mr A the watch had been reported as lost by 
someone else, so it had cancelled the policy. It said it shouldnt have offered the cover in the 
first place and so would refund the cost of the policy
While the complaint was with this service, Apple reviewed the complaint and said that in 
addition to it refunding the money paid for the insurance it would offer Mr A £100 
compensation because it shouldnt have offered policy in the first place. Our investigator said 
this was a fair offer from Apple to settle the claim. 
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and require Apple to pay the settlement it has 
already offered. I will explain why.
Mr A bought the watch on an online marketplace. He said the online sales listing said the 
watch had a warranty and was eligible for AppleCare+. Mr A contacted Apple and took out 
an AppleCare+ policy. Apple later cancelled the policy, but didnt tell Mr A. I can understand 
that Mr A was concerned Apple didnt tell him this. Instead, Mr A only found out the policy 
had been cancelled when he logged into his account a while later.
Ive looked at why Apple cancelled the policy. From what Ive seen, the original purchaser of 
the watch bought it from an online store approved by Apple. The original purchaser then 
reported the device as lost in transit. According to Apple, this meant the watch wasnt eligible 
for any support, including AppleCare+. Apple referred Mr A back to the online marketplace 
he bought the watch from, which it said wasnt an authorised seller for Apple devices. I think 
what Apple did was reasonable.
However, Apple now accepts it should have told Mr A the policy had been cancelled. When 
Mr A complained, Apple said it would refund the cost of the policy. While the complaint was 
with this service, Apple reviewed the complaint again and offered £100 compensation 
because it didnt tell Mr A the policy had been cancelled. In the circumstances, I think what 
Apple has now offered is fair. This is because it restored Mr A to the position he would have 
been in had Apple not sold him the policy in the first place, with some compensation to 
recognise the mistake Apple made by not telling him the policy had been cancelled.
Im aware Mr A has said that if Apple had told him the policy had been cancelled, he could 
have raised this with the online retailer sooner. But Im only looking at the actions of Apple 
and Im not in a position to comment on the returns policy of the online marketplace. Based 
on what Ive seen, Apple has responded fairly to the issues raised and I think it should 
refund the cost of the policy and pay £100 compensation in order to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
Apple should refund the cost of the policy and pay Mr A £100 compensation, if it hasnt done 
so already.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint and require 
Apple Distribution International to:
Refund the cost of the policy, if it hasnt already done so.
Pay Mr A £100 compensation, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman