DRN-4170455
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the decision by Astrenska Insurance Limited to turn down 
their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W hold travel insurance with Astrenska. Whilst abroad, their young son ran into 
a glass door which then cracked. Mr and Mrs W attempted to contact Astrenska to make a 
claim under the personal liability section of cover, but couldnt get through. They made the 
decision to pay for the damage. 
After Mr and Mrs W made a claim, Astrenska turned this down. It didnt think Mr and Mrs W 
had been negligent, and also said they had an agreement with the property owner to be 
charged for any damage. Unhappy with Astrenskas decision, Mr and Mrs W brought a 
complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld on a fair and reasonable basis. He 
thought Mr and Mrs W had acted reasonably by paying for the damage given the 
circumstances of the claim. He recommended Astrenska pay the claim plus interest. 
Astrenska didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The personal liability section of the policy says:
YOU ARE COVEREDfor your legal expenses and legal liability for damages caused by an 
accident that happened during the trip, which leads to a claim made against you for:

2 damage to your temporary holiday accommodation that does not belong to you, or 
any member of your family, household, employee or travelling companion.
A claim was not actually made against Mr and Mrs W by the property owner, as they 
accepted liability and paid for the damage. However, if they had not done so, I think its most 
likely that a claim would have been made against them. 
The policy says You must not make any payment, admit liability, offer or promise to make 
any payment without written consent from us.
This is a general condition and is separate to the personal liability section of cover. 
Mr and Mrs W apparently made a number of attempts to contact Astrenska about the matter, 
but were unable to get through. I understand they were told by an automated message that 
wait times were long and they should claim online. Astrenska hasnt disputed this.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs W paid for the damage. There was a large crack in the 
window for which their son was responsible, and they were concerned about the window 
shattering and causing injury to them and their young children. They were also worried about 
potential consequential losses if they refused to pay for the damage and the property owner 
could not rent out the property after theyd left and suffered loss of earnings. In paying for the 
damage when they did, I think they were mitigating their losses.  
If Mr and Mrs W had got through to Astrenska, it seems they would have been told not to 
pay. Thats because Astrenska doesnt think Mr and Mrs W had legal liability for the damage. 
It says that is because the door was made of glass and therefore inherently transparent and 
could not be avoided. 
Whilst its for a court to make a decision on legal liability, I think Astrenskas argument here 
is quite weak. Mr and Mrs W make a good point that glass doors are commonplace, and that 
people do not walk into them because glass can be detected. There are also other signs of a 
door, such as the frame and handles. Mr and Mrs W have also accepted their son was at 
fault for causing the accidental damage and so do not dispute liability. 
Finally, the policy says the following isnt covered:
3. For anything caused directly or indirectly by:
a. liability which you are responsible for, because of an agreement that was 
made
Mr and Mrs W signed an agreement with the property owner which set out the terms of the 
rental. One of the terms said that they would be charged for any damage, breakage and loss 
to the property caused by them. Astrenska believes this means the claim cant be payable.
I interpret the above policy term to mean that Astrenska doesnt wish to cover situations 
where someone has accepted liability for something over and above what they would 
ordinarily be liable for (by signing an agreement to that effect). That isnt the case here. It 
seems to me that entering into the agreement with the property owner is no different to what 
the situation would have been if the agreement hadnt been entered into at all. Ultimately, Mr 
and Mrs Ws son caused damage to their temporary holiday accommodation, and I think 
they were likely liable for that damage as a result. That is covered by the policy.
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that the claim should be paid on a fair and reasonable 
basis.
Astrenska recognised there had been delays in responding to Mr and Mrs Ws claim, and it 
paid them £100 compensation for this. I find this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay 
the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. Interest* at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
should be added from the date the invoice was paid to the date of settlement. 
*If Astrenska considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman