DRN-2738995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, gave them 
incomplete information when discussing options in relation to their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have a residential mortgage with Virgin Money that was taken out in 2018. 
The mortgage is over a term of 22 years and has a fixed interest rate until November 2023  
meaning that an early repayment charge (ERC) is applicable until that date if the mortgage 
is redeemed in full. 
In January 2019 Mrs W contacted Virgin to discuss the mortgage. She and Mr W were 
interested in moving and potentially using the Help-to-Buy scheme, so they wanted to know 
if their mortgage could be ported. The adviser Mrs W spoke to explained that their existing 
mortgage could not be ported in conjunction with a Help-to-Buy loan. They explained that if 
Mr and Mrs W wanted to take Help-to-Buy lending theyd have to apply for a new mortgage, 
on specific Help-to-Buy terms and would need to speak to a broker. The adviser failed to 
explain that, if Mr and Mrs W took a new Help-to-Buy mortgage with Virgin Money, to replace 
their existing mortgage, they could be eligible for a 50% reduction in their ERC.
Mrs W spoke to Virgin Money again on a couple of occasions in March 2019. Call notes 
provided by Virgin Money indicate this was again to discuss options for potentially moving to 
a new house  this time conventional porting and how much additional borrowing she and 
Mr W could potentially afford. Virgin Money again did not explain during these calls that an 
ERC reduction of 50% was available if Mr and Mrs W took Help-to-Buy borrowing with it in 
place of their existing mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs W have said that, as they thought theyd have to pay the full ERC in order to 
move, they decided against doing so.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Virgin Money in early 2020. They said theyd become aware 
that they wouldve qualified for a reduction in the ERC on their existing mortgage if theyd 
taken a Help-to-Buy mortgage with Virgin Money. They initially understood that the ERC 
wouldve been waived entirely. So, they wanted Virgin Money to waive the ERC in full and 
allow them to re-mortgage to a different lender.
Virgin Money responded to say that only a 50% reduction of the ERC wouldve been 
applicable in January 2019. And it would not agree to waive the ERC now. It acknowledged 
though that its adviser had failed to explain this. So, it offered Mr and Mrs W £200 for the 
upset caused by this poor customer service.
Mr and Mrs W asked our service to consider the complaint. They said that theyd lost out as 
theyd based their decision not to move on incomplete information provided by Virgin Money. 
They said had they known theyd have been eligible for a reduction in the ERC they wouldve 
moved. But, due to movements in the housing market, similar properties to the one they 
were previously interested in are now significantly more expensive, so they feel they have 
lost out due to Virgin Moneys error.
One of our investigators looked into things. He felt that the offer already made by Virgin 
Money was fair and didnt think itd be reasonable to require it to waive the ERC applicable 
under Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs W asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money acknowledges and accepts that it made an error here. When Mrs W spoke to 
one of its advisors in January 2019 she was given incomplete information. While it was 
explained correctly that the residential mortgage could not be ported alongside Help-to-Buy 
funding and a new mortgage would be required, it wasnt explained that, if that new Help-to-
Buy mortgage was taken with Virgin Money, theyd be eligible for a reduction in the ERC 
payable. So as Virgin Money accepts an error was made, what is left for me to decide is 
what a fair way to put things right is.
Mr and Mrs W have said theyd like Virgin Money to waive the ERC on their mortgage, so 
they are free to re-mortgage with another lender if they choose. But I dont think this would 
be reasonable.
The mortgage offer Mr and Mrs W agreed to in 2018 is clear that, in the event the mortgage 
is repaid in full before November 2023, an ERC would be payable. And re-mortgaging to 
another lender would result in the mortgage being repaid in full. I dont think itd be fair to 
require Virgin Money to disregard this term of the previously agreed contract, just as a result 
of the information it gave later being incomplete. I say this because, even if full information 
had been provided, Mr and Mrs W would not at any point have been entitled to exit the 
mortgage and move to another lender without paying the ERC. So, to require Virgin Money 
to waive the ERC would put them in a position they would never have been in.
If Mr and Mrs W were to now apply to port their mortgage, Id expect Virgin Money to act in 
line with the terms of their mortgage when it comes to an ERC and whether a rebate would 
be due. Likewise, if Mr and Mrs W now applied to take alternative lending with Virgin Money, 
replacing their existing mortgage, which entitled them to a reduction in the ERC, again Id 
expect Virgin Money to honour the terms of the mortgage and its current policies. But 
beyond continuing to act in line with the previously agreed contract I dont think it needs to 
do anything further in terms of changing the ERC payable, just because of the error made.
Mr and Mrs W have said they have lost out because, as a result of not proceeding to 
purchase a new property in January 2019 and property prices having increased since, 
similar properties to the one they were previously interested in now cost significantly more. 
Mr and Mrs W were still able to apply to take an alternative mortgage or to port and attempt 
to buy a different property  and they have acknowledged that Virgin Money did not prevent 
them from doing so. Mr and Mrs W took the decision not to do so. I accept this was based on 
incomplete information  which led them to consider the potential cost to be prohibitive. But it 
was ultimately their decision not to proceed. 
There was also no guarantee that a purchase in January 2019 wouldve been successful. 
Mrs W has said she is confident that Virgin Money wouldve agreed to a new mortgage on a 
Help-to-Buy basis at the same level of borrowing. But the proposal wouldve included Mr and 
Mrs W borrowing a significant sum under the Help-to-Buy scheme, which mightve impacted Virgin Moneys lending decision. And this wasnt the only factor affecting a potential 
purchase. A purchase would first have needed to have been agreed, which wasnt 
guaranteed, as would the sale of their existing property. And the new property wouldve 
needed to have met Virgin Moneys lending criteria. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think I can reasonably hold Virgin Money 
responsible for movements in the housing market or the potential loss Mr and Mrs W have 
indicated.
Virgin Money has offered £200 for the upset caused by its advisor providing incomplete 
information. Mr and Mrs W have said they dont think this is fair. I dont doubt that it was an 
unwelcome surprise and upsetting to find out, approximately one year after their initial 
discussion with Virgin Money, that some of the information it had given was incomplete. But 
while I appreciate Mr and Mrs W wouldve been very disappointed to learn theyd previously 
not been given all of the relevant information, in the circumstances I think the offer made by 
Virgin Money is a fair way to address the upset caused by them becoming aware of this. So, 
I dont intend to require it to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint, as I think the offer already 
made by the business is a fair way to resolve things.
If it hasnt already done so Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, should pay Mr and 
Mrs W the £200 it offered previously for the upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman