DRN-2036750
 
The complaint
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision that this is a complaint which we can 
consider. 
Now Ive made my decision, the adjudicator can begin to look into the merits of Mr Is 
complaint.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and said they thought the PPI had been 
mis-sold. Having looked Mrs Hs circumstances at the time they thought she didnt need 
the policy.
In my provisional decision dated 15 July 2020 I explained why I disagreed with our 
adjudicator and was thinking of upholding this complaint. I set out an extract below:
It seems to me that the policy was probably suitable for Mrs H. She was employed, 
eligible for the cover and the PPI wouldve paid off up to 10% of the outstanding 
balance on her credit card each month, if shed made a successful claim.
Mrs H told us a few things about her circumstances at the time. This included that she had 
at least 6 months of available benefits from her employer if she was unable to work. Given 
what we know about how long shed been in her job, its unlikely that this would have been
more than 6 months.
When she complained to us Mrs H also said she had savings or insurance equivalent to at 
least 6 months pay but less than 12 months pay. But the details she gave Barclays were 
that she had around £2-3,000 in available savings. Given what I know about Mrs Hs salary 
at the time her savings would not have been equivalent to even 6 months pay.
So as things stand, without better details or evidence of these savings, Im not persuaded 
that Mrs H would have had access to at least 6 months or something approaching 12 
months worth of pay if she was unable to work. In order to be able to consider upholding 
this complaint based on level of savings, or other resources, I would need to see some 
evidence of Mrs H having this level of readily accessible savings at the time. This is 
something I invite Mrs H to do before I prepare my final decision.
Ive made this request having looked at how the PPI worked. It would have paid out for up 
to 12 months if Mrs H had made a successful claim, costing around 70p for each £100 
Mrs H owed on her card and paying 10% of the outstanding balance on the card each 
month for up to 12 months. I think thats a worthwhile benefit at a reasonable cost. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think that Mrs H couldnt afford the monthly policy 
premiums. So based on this, my current view is that the PPI was a useful benefit for 
Mrs H.
Barclays confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and told us it had nothing further to 
add. 
Mrs H responded to my request for more information about her level of savings. She said 
she doesnt have any paperwork from around the time of the sale. Mrs H says she wouldve 
saved around £200 per month, which suggests given the time shed been in her job that she 
could have amassed the figure of £2-£3,000 in available savings she told Barclays us about. 
She also told us that her father had helped her with some funding to use towards a deposit 
to help her buy her first home.
Mrs H also reiterated that at the time she thought it was necessary for her to select PPI in 
order to get the card account, and it wasnt something she had a choice about. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I can see Mrs H has done her best to assist us and provide the all information weve 
requested. Whilst its understandable after so long that Mrs H cant give us better information 
about her savings at the time, it means I can only base my decision on what I think the likely 
position was. Unfortunately, Im not able to say with enough certainty that Mrs H had an 
amount of savings equivalent to somewhere between six months and a years savings. 
Whilst Ive also noted that Mrs H was living at home at the time, Ive seen that she was 
intending to purchase her first home. With such future plans in mind, its likely Mrs H would 
have wanted to have access to financial resources she could rely on when she needed 
them. So I think on balance Mrs H would have seen the PPI as being a useful protection to 
have were she unable to work or to lose her job. 
Ive also thought about Mrs Hs comment that she thought taking out PPI was something she 
had to do to get the card account, but from what Ive seen about the way the sale happened 
I remain of the view that she would have seen she had a choice. 
Having re-considered this complaint and taken into account what Mrs H has told us in 
response to my provisional decision, I wont be changing the finding I made provisionally. It 
follows that I dont think Mrs H lost out as a result of taking the PPI. So I will not be requiring 
Barclays to take any action to compensate her. 
My final decision
For the reason Ive set out above and explained in my provisional decision I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman