DRN-2923668
The complaint
Mr A complains about the date on which Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) registered 
a default marker on his credit file. 
  
What happened
In July 2013, Mr A took out a £10,000 personal loan with Nationwide. The loan repayments 
were around £192 over 60 months. 
In 2014 Mr A entered into a Debt Management Plan (DMP) arranged by a debt counselling 
charity. Under this DMP all of Mr As creditors were contacted and it was agreed that he 
would make reduced monthly payments over the course of four years and two months. In 
November 2014, Nationwide was made aware of this DMP, but Mr A says that they only 
registered a default on his loan with them in December 2017. So, he says he questioned this 
with Nationwide, who agreed to backdate the default to November 2015. Mr A was still 
unhappy with this as he thought that they shouldve registered the default earlier. He feels 
that Nationwide shouldve registered the default about three months after he entered the 
DMP; just like he says some of his other creditors did, including Nationwide on some of his 
other accounts with them. 
In February 2021 Nationwide wrote to Mr A. In this correspondence they said that when an 
account isnt in arrears at the time of entering a DMP, they set a review date of 12 months. 
They say, after this time passes, they review the individuals financial situation, and if there is 
no change or improvement, they then register a default. They say this ensures that if the 
individuals financial situation improves, a default notice isnt unnecessarily registered. 
Mr A was unhappy with Nationwide response, as he says they knew from the start that his 
financial circumstances would not change, so he says it was unreasonable for them to wait 
12 months before registering the default. Unhappy with their response, Mr A brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She was of the opinion that 
Nationwide should backdate the default to three months after the start of Mr As DMP. 
Nationwide disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure Mr A and Nationwide that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Accordingly, Ive considered the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidelines that were relevant at the time Mr A 
entered into the DMP. ICO guidelines were created to ensure consistency among creditors, 
and, among other things, the guidelines set out when a default should be registered with 
credit reference agencies. 
Ive considered that Mr A has specifically requested that Nationwide back date the default to 
about three months after he entered the DMP. He says this would be fair as this is about the 
time most of his other accounts, which were also a part of the DMP, had registered defaults 
with credit reference agencies. So, Ive considered whether this would be fair and 
reasonable considering his circumstances, and Ive considered whether this would be in line 
with the aim of the ICOs guidelines.   
Ive also considered what Nationwide has told us. They have said that when an account isnt 
in arrears at the time of entering a DMP, they set a review of the plan for 12 months. They 
say after 12 months passes, they review the account and, if there is no change or 
improvement in the individuals financial situation, they then register a default. They say this 
ensures that, if the individuals financial situation improves, a default notice isnt 
unnecessarily registered. And they say they treat all members the same, so it wouldnt be 
reasonable to treat Mr A differently.  
Nationwide had an obligation to present accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies. So in the early days, when they agreed to the alternative payment as presented in 
the DMP, I wouldve expected them to be reporting to the credit agency that the account was 
in arrangement to pay. Arrangements to pay are usually intended to be short-term, but if they 
are going to be longer than a few months, such as this one, I wouldve expected Nationwide 
to review the suitability of the arrangement at regular intervals  usually about three to six 
months. And during these reviews, I wouldve expected them to engage with Mr A to see if 
his financial situation has changed. Considering the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to set a review for 12 months later as Nationwide has 
done. And, in most situations, it would be reasonable that when an account is in an 
arrangement to pay, a default is not registered unless the terms of the arrangement are 
broken. But considering that Nationwide defaulted this account, Ive gone on to consider 
whether this was reasonable.
ICO guidelines say that when a consumer is at least three months behind with their 
payments, then a default may be registered. Mr As loan fell into arrears prior to him entering 
into the DMP in November 2014. Under the DMP Mr A was making payments to Nationwide, 
but arrears were accruing, because of the difference between the contractual monthly 
payment and the reduced payment agreed under the DMP. So arguably Mr A was no longer 
meeting his contractual obligation under the account terms and conditions, therefore 
Nationwide wouldnt be reporting inaccurate information, if it reported to the credit reference 
agencies that Mr As loan account had defaulted. So, considering the above, and given that 
Mr A asked for the account to be reported as default, in line with what other creditors under 
the DMP have done, I think its reasonable Nationwide defaulted the loan account in 
question. But Ive gone on to consider the date of when the default shouldve been fairly 
reported to the credit reference agencies. Ive already mentioned above that I think waiting 12 months in Mr As circumstances to 
review his financial situation was not reasonable. I think Nationwide knew from the beginning 
of the DMP that, most likely, Mr As financial situation wouldnt change any time soon. I say 
this because had they reviewed the suitability of Mr As repayment arrangement three 
months after Mr A entered the DMP, they wouldve notice that not much has changed. Also 
they were aware that Mr A was in financial difficulties, his DMP was for a long term of four 
years and two months, and, considering he sought help form a debt counselling charity, I 
think most likely they wouldve been aware that his financial situation would not change after 
12 months. I think three months after Mr A entered into the DMP, Nationwide wouldve 
realised that Mr A wasnt in a financial position to pay his outstanding arrears, and that the 
repayment plan was definitely going to be a long-term affair. So, considering all the 
circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for them to register a default with the 
credit reference agencies at that time. It would also be in line with the guidance from the 
ICO, as at that time Mr A was at least three months behind with his payments.
In summary, I though carefully what is fair and reasonable taking all of Mr As circumstances 
into consideration. And Mr As request for the default to be registered three months after he 
entered the DMP is a fairer way to report his repayment history for his loan with Nationwide. 
So, considering all the circumstances of this complaint, I think recording the account as 
having defaulted three months after he entered into the DMP is fair and reasonable. 
Therefore, the date of the default should be recorded as 17 February 2015.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should backdate 
the default to three months after the start of Mr As DMP. So, the default on Mr As loan 
account, at the credit reference agencies, should be registered as of 17 February 2015. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman