DRN-2781677
The complaint
Mrs M complains that the loans provided to her by Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending 
Stream were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs M was provided with two loans by Lending Stream. The details are set out below.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Monthly Instalments Loan Amount
1 18/10/2018 08/11/2019 6 £250.00
2 02/11/2018 08/11/2019 6 £500.00
Mrs S says that the loans werent affordable and that had proper checks been carried out 
Lending stream would have realised this. She says that her det was sold resulting in a 
judgement being recorded against her.
Lending stream issued a final response letter not upholding Mrs S complaint. It says that 
before the loans were provided it gathered information about Mrs S income and expense 
and carried out a credit check. It says based on this the loans were affordable. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Lending Stream had acted unreasonably by providing the 
loans.
Mrs S didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for her complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mrs S could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs S complaint.
Mrs S was provided with two loans by Lending Stream. Before the loans were provided 
information was gathered about Mrs S income and expenses and Lending Stream carried 
out a credit check. Before the first loan was provided, Mrs S declared a monthly income of 
£2,580 and expenses of £532. Lending Stream has explained that it checks the expenses 
number provided against external data sources and if required the expenses are increased. 
In this case, the assessment was carried out using expenses of £680. Given this was Mrs S 
first loan with Lending Stream and noting the repayment amounts compared to her income, I 
find that the checks were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns I do not find that 
further verification was needed. Based on the checks the loan appeared affordable and so I 
do not find I can say Lending Stream was wrong to provide loan 1.
Mrs S was provided with a second loan for a larger amount less than a month after taking 
out the first loan. Loan 1 was still outstanding at this time. While this could suggest Mrs S 
was experiencing financial difficulties, I think it was too early in the lending relationship to 
say that Lending Stream should have been reasonably aware of any issues. As loan 2 was 
taken out while loan 1 was still outstanding, I have considered the total amount Mrs S was 
required to pay for the loans against the income and expenses information she provided.
Before loan 2, Mrs S declared a lower income than before loan 1. Her monthly income was 
recorded as £1,975 and she declared expenses of £550 although an expenses number of 
£711 was used. This left Mrs S with a disposable income of £1,164. The combined monthly 
repayments for the loans was around £245. 
Overall, as only two loans were provided, and having considered the information gathered, I 
find the checks carried out before the loans were provided were proportionate. As the 
checks didnt raise concerns that would have required further verification to take place and 
suggested the loans were affordable I do not find I can uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Gain Credit LLC trading as 
Lending Stream.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman