DRN-2904284
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited have unfairly refused her claim 
under her travel insurance policy.
Mrs S has been represented in this complaint by a family member. However, for ease I will 
only refer to Mrs S in this decision.
What happened
Mrs S was due to travel on holiday with her family in early February 2020. She took out a 
travel insurance policy with Admiral to cover this trip.
In late January 2020, one of Mrs Ss relatives, who was accompanying her on this trip, was 
advised against travelling by her GP. He said this was due to the coronavirus risk in the area 
they were due to be travelling to. As a result, Mrs S cancelled her trip and made a claim on 
her insurance policy.
Admiral declined her claim. It said the policy would only provide cover for her to cancel if a 
close relative became ill or was injured. As her relative hadnt been diagnosed with an illness 
or injury which caused the cancellation, it said there was no cover for this claim.
Mrs S complained to Admiral about this and brought her complaint to this service. As the GP 
had provided a medical certificate to confirm that he advised her relative against travelling, 
she said she should be able to claim. And she said she had also been unwell prior to the 
cancellation and so this was another reason why she chose to cancel.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found that the 
policy listed reasons for which it would cover a claim for cancellation and the reason why 
Mrs S says she cancelled her trip wasnt one of those that the policy covered. So, she didnt 
think Admiral needed to do anything more. 
Mrs S disagreed with our investigator and, as no agreement could be reached, the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ss complaint.
The policy Mrs S took out includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. The 
relevant parts are as follows:
Section 2:
Cancelling or cutting short your trip
1. What is covered
We will pay up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule for irrecoverable 
costs you have paid or must legally pay at the time you became aware of the need 
to cancel or cut short your trip
Reasons for cancelling or cutting short your trip
We will provide this cover if you have to cancel or cut short your trip for any of the 
following reasons:
Death, illness, injury or complications of pregnancy or childbirth:
the death, serious injury, serious illness or complications of pregnancy or 
childbirth of you, your travel companion, a close relative, a close 
business associate or anyone outside your home area you planned to stay 
with
Mrs S has said that she cancelled her trip due to her relative being advised not to travel as a 
result of the coronavirus risk. Admiral has said the information supplied doesnt show her 
relative was suffering from an illness or injury and so it has declined the claim as the 
cancellation wasnt caused by one of the covered reasons. So, what I need to consider is 
whether Admiral acted fairly and reasonably, when refusing to meet Mrs Ss claim.
Having looked at the relevant policy terms, it is clear that a claim for the cancellation of a trip 
is only provided for certain listed reasons. And one of those reasons is if you are unable to 
travel as a result of the illness or injury of a close relative. However, the medical certificate 
supplied to Admiral, which was completed by the relatives GP, doesnt confirm that they 
were suffering from any illness or injury  the GP has just detailed that it is the coronavirus 
risk which has given rise to the claim. So, based on the evidence supplied to Admiral so far, 
there isnt a specific illness or injury that her relative was suffering from which caused the 
need for the cancellation of the trip. Taking this into account, I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Admiral to decline the claim on that basis.
Mrs S has said that as the doctor has provided medical evidence to support the cancellation 
this should be enough to satisfy the claim. Whilst I appreciate her comments, the medical 
evidence suppled isnt enough to show that the cancellation of the trip was caused by a 
reason covered by the policy and so Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Admiral to 
refuse the claim based on that documentation.
Im also aware that Mrs S has told us she was unwell prior to the cancellation of the trip with 
a respiratory condition - she says this was a contributing factor to her cancelling the trip. If 
Mrs S wishes her claim to be reviewed based on her own medical condition, she should 
send the relevant medical evidence to Admiral for it to consider.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman