DRN-3078374
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited has dealt with his applications 
for cars to be supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
Mr C applied to Moneybarn for a car to be supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement in October 2020. The application wasnt accepted. Mr C made another 
application to Moneybarn in November 2020 for a different car to be supplied to him under a 
conditional sale agreement. That application was accepted and he electronically signed the 
conditional sale agreement later that month.
Mr C then complained to Moneybarn that he was paying more for that car than he would 
have paid for the first car if the application that hed made in October 2020 had been 
accepted. It said that it was unable to conclude that there had been any errors made by 
Moneybarn so it was unable to uphold his complaint. Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response 
so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Moneybarn had acted unreasonably or unfairly so he said that he wouldnt be asking it to do 
anything further.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that both 
applications were under the same name, his credit file was the same, his address has been 
the same for six years and hes registered on the electoral roll. He says that a mistake was 
made by Moneybarn and, if it had any doubts about the correct information, it should have 
asked him before the application was made. He also says that the lending was irresponsible 
because he was in a debt management plan and was missing payments to other creditors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr C applied to Moneybarn for a car to be supplied to him under a conditional sale 
agreement in October 2020  that application wasnt accepted but Ive seen no 
evidence to persuade me that Moneybarn acted incorrectly in not accepting that 
application; 
he applied to Moneybarn for a different car from a different dealer to be supplied to 
him under conditional sale agreement in November 2020 - that application was 
accepted and Mr C electronically signed the conditional sale agreement later that 
month;
Moneybarn has provided details of the information that it was provided for the two 
applications  there are some differences including with Mr Cs name, the time that 
hed lived at his address and one of the applications included a previous address but 
the other didnt;
its possible that those differences caused only one of the applications to be accepted 
 but Im not persuaded that that theres enough evidence to show that Moneybarn 
has made a mistake or acted incorrectly in these circumstances;
Mr C says that the car has cost him £4,000 more and its not the one he chose in the 
first place so he says that Moneybarn should reduce the rate of interest under the 
agreement and discount the final price;
the interest rate under both agreements is the same and the difference in the amount 
that Mr C is paying is because of the higher price of the car that was supplied to him 
under the conditional sale agreement (£11,500 when the first application was for a 
car with a price of £8,859);
it was Mr Cs choice of car and if he wasnt satisfied with the payments that were set 
out in the conditional sale agreement, I consider that it would be reasonable to 
expect him not to have signed the agreement;
in response to our investigators recommendations, Mr C has said that it was 
irresponsible for Moneybarn to have lent to him but that didnt form part of his original 
complaint to Moneybarn or his complaint to this service so Im unable to consider it in 
this decision  if Mr C wants to proceed with a complaint about irresponsible lending 
he should first complain to Moneybarn and then, if hes not satisfied with its 
response, he may be able to make a separate complaint to this service; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Moneybarn reduce the rate of interest or monthly payments on Mr Cs agreement, to 
pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman