DRN-3317589
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that he had restricted access to his online account with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (trading as Barclays Smart Investor) for approximately twenty months. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Barclays have acknowledged that an error meant Mr G was without proper access to 
his Smart Investor account for approximately twenty months, following his application 
for power of attorney on a family members account. 
As Barclays acknowledge the error and ongoing issues, they have made an offer to 
compensate Mr G for the distress and inconvenience caused. It is my role therefore 
to consider whether the offer is fair and reasonable or not. Having done so, I believe 
it is and fairly compensates Mr G. 
Whilst Mr G felt that £2000 was a fair compensatory figure, Barclays have offered 
£945.69. They say this comprises of £400 for the lack of access and not dividing 
access as Mr G suggested at the beginning. It also includes £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, £45.69 as a refund of charges paid for the account and a 
further £200 for amount of contact that Mr G had to go through to resolve the issue. I 
think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I have taken into account that whilst Mr G was not able to trade online and how 
frustrating this will have been, he was still able to do so over the phone and in writing. 
I am also aware that these issues and the contact issues Mr G had with Barclays, will 
have been exacerbated by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, which impacted most of 
the industry. I also believe that the offer for the distress and inconvenience caused is 
in line with what we would award for impact of this nature. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Gs frustration, I think the offer already made 
by Barclays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclays Smart Investor) has 
already made an offer to pay £945.69 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclays Smart Investor) should 
pay Mr G £945.69, if they havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman