DRN-4218460
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about Inter Partner Assistance SAs provision of an annual boiler 
service.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M have a home insurance policy which they purchased through an 
intermediary. This includes cover for buildings and contents, amongst other things. 
Whilst it is a single policy, the cover is underwritten by a number of different underwriters. 
IPA provide home emergency cover under the policy, as well as an annual boiler service.
IPAs agents carried out an annual boiler service in August 2022. They reported no problems 
with the boiler. A few weeks later, Mr M and Mrs M called IPA and reported an issue with the 
boiler. When they turned on the hot water function (only), their central heating system was 
also coming on.
IPA promptly sent another engineer to inspect the boiler. They found a problem with the 
plate heat exchanger, which they described as blocked (by sludge). This was causing the 
diverter valve to fail. Essentially, the hot water generated by the boiler was not being 
properly directed solely into the water pipes but was also feeding into the central heating 
system unbidden.
The engineer also spotted signs of water leaking from the air vents in the system. They said 
the system would need a new plate and diverter valve. But the screws under the diverter 
valve were so corroded they might break completely during repairs, which would mean the 
boiler would need to be replaced.
The engineer said the boiler was in poor condition, had significant rust, sludge and/or scale 
and, in their opinion, had not been maintained.
Mr M and Mrs M were annoyed these problems hadnt been picked up by the annual service 
carried out a few weeks previously. They complained to IPA. They want IPA to replace their 
boiler.
IPA didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr M and Mrs M brought it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think IPA had done anything wrong. 
Mr M and Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important first of all to understand the nature of the insurance cover provided by IPA to 
Mr M and Mrs M through their policy. There are two parts to this  home emergency cover 
and the annual boiler service.
No-one is suggesting that in this case Mr M and Mrs M at any point suffered a home 
emergency. Their hot water was functioning throughout and whilst it was inconvenient that 
their heating was coming on unnecessarily, this couldnt reasonably be described as an 
emergency.
The real questions in this complaint then are about the annual boiler service carried out in 
August 2022. First, whether this was carried out properly. And, if not, what effect this had on 
Mr M and Mrs M.
The policy booklet describes the annual boiler service as a safety and efficiency check. 
Essentially, the service includes a number of safety checks to ensure the boiler is not a 
danger to the people living in the house. And checks to ensure the boiler is working. 
The terms say the service includes materials and parts up to the value of £10. And they say 
the service does not include: removing sludge or scale; repairing the boiler; or repairing or 
replacing parts of the central heating system and controls.
The first question Is whether the annual service was carried out properly  whether, in effect, 
IPA provided the service they are supposed to provide under the terms of the policy.
It seems theres no dispute that the safety checks were carried out. Its also true to say that if 
the purpose of the other checks was simply to establish that the boiler was working (heating 
up water), then that was also done. 
The policy terms however do suggest that the checks are slightly more involved than simply 
establishing that the water is heating up. The terms refer to a full test of all boiler 
components and functionality.
The policy terms explicitly say that the service doesnt include removing sludge or scale form 
the system. At least by implication then, the engineer carrying out the service might not be 
expected to carry out checks for sludge, scale or rust. And it seems the problem may 
ultimately have been due to sludge or scale in the system, as the second engineer said.
However, IPA say  quite rightly  that they would expect an engineer carrying out a service 
to address any problems the customer asked them about during the service. Whilst those 
issues might not be covered, it wouldnt be unreasonable to expect the engineer to at least 
advise the customer about what further tests and/or repairs needed to be carried out.
Mr M and Mrs M say they told the annual service engineer that their system was 
malfunctioning, in that their heating weas coming on when they had only turned on the hot 
water.
The engineers notes dont suggest that such a conversation took place. And they later said 
that the issue hadnt been raised at the time.
Theres clearly a conflict of evidence here which I cant ultimately resolve. If Mr M and Mrs M 
didnt mention the problem during the service, I cant reasonably conclude the service was 
carried out poorly. If they did, then the engineer hasnt really done what would be expected 
of them  in terms of the policy or in terms of IPAs own expectations.
I dont think I need to resolve that conflict of evidence though in order to decide the outcome 
of this complaint. Ill explain what I mean by this.
Mr M and Mrs M contacted IPA a few weeks after the service. IPA responded very promptly 
and had an engineer carry out a thorough inspection which identified the problem with the boiler and the repairs (or replacement, if the repairs failed due to the corrosion of some of 
the components) that needed to be carried out.
As the policy terms set out very clearly, the boiler repairs  or replacement  which have 
now been identified as absolutely necessary  are not covered by IPA under the policy.
Its absolutely clear that the issues with the boiler and system pre-dated the annual service 
in August. The rust in the boiler is quite pronounced and advanced. The scale has clearly 
been accumulating for some considerable time. The diverter valve isnt working due to 
sludge in the system  which cannot conceivably have arisen between mid-August (the 
service) and mid-September (the second visit).
So, even if I assume that the annual service wasnt carried out very well in August (and as I 
say, this is a matter of dispute between the parties), none of that damage is covered  or 
would ever have been covered  by IPA. Nor were IPA obliged  either in August 2022 or at 
previous annual services  to address any problems with sludge, rust or scale.
Im sorry that Mr M and Mrs M have experienced this problem with their boiler and their 
heating. But I cant reasonably conclude that IPA have either caused those issues or failed 
to address them reasonably promptly. 
If there were any shortcomings in the annual service, these have not had any significant 
effect on the position Mr M and Mrs M find themselves in. Their boiler is either old or in poor 
condition  or both. It needs significant repair or replacement because of that. Insurance 
policies in general cover unfortunate accidents or mishaps. They dont usually cover 
replacement of items that are old and/or suffering wear and tear and/or have not been 
maintained. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman