DRN-3832018
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont refund her a payment 
she made, for accommodation, on her credit card.
What happened
In July 2019, Miss F booked an accommodation for £5,000, for 7 to 11 October 2020. Miss F 
used her Virgin Money credit card to pay a deposit of £1,250 in July 2019 and she paid the 
remaining amount of £3,750 via bank transfer in May 2020.
Miss F says the supplier of the accommodation cancelled the booking as they couldnt 
provide the service due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Miss F says the supplier promised her a 
refund but couldnt tell her when she was going to get her money back. Although Miss F 
says she wasnt able to provide us with the communication from the supplier where they said 
they were cancelling the booking, Miss F has provided us with email communication from the 
supplier promising to refund her what shed paid for the accommodation.
Miss F said she waited 10 months for the refund, but as she didnt receive this, she made a 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) to Virgin Money in July 
2021. Miss F says, eventually, Virgin Money told her that her claim was being considered but 
that it was likely to be unsuccessful. Miss F reminded Virgin Money that the booking was 
cancelled by the supplier. Miss F said she didnt hear from Virgin Money in response to her 
Section 75 claim, which caused her to bring her complaint to our service.
Miss F says she wanted Virgin Money to process her Section 75 claim and to refund her the 
full £5,000 she paid for the accommodation.
Virgin Money initially told us they didnt provide Miss F with a final response letter as they 
were still completing their investigation into her claim. Virgin Money also recognised that 
while there were no set timescales to follow for a Section 75 claim, a long time had passed 
for Miss F to wait for an outcome. Virgin Money said they were in regular contact with the 
supplier and were waiting on their response. Because of this, they didnt offer any 
compensation for the service Miss F received.
Miss F then provided us with a copy of Virgin Moneys response to her claim which was sent 
in September 2022. The response said Miss Fs Section 75 claim was unsuccessful as they 
didnt think there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  they 
said Covid-19 related events were outside of both parties control and this led to the contract 
being frustrated. Virgin Money also made reference to the original invoice which stated the 
deposit of £1,250 was non-refundable. 
Our Investigator looked into Miss Fs concerns. In summary, she said she was satisfied Miss 
Fs claim was brought outside of the timeframe that applies under chargeback rules. 
However, our Investigator concluded the supplier wasnt able to provide the service Miss F 
had booked, so she found there was a breach of contract. As a result, our Investigator 
recommended:
Virgin Money rework Miss Fs account as if the payment of £1,250 had been 
refunded when Miss F raised her Section 75 claim.
If theres a credit balance, Virgin Money pay 8% simple interest from the date it 
would have arisen to when it ceased to exist.
Virgin Money to also refund the deposit of £3,750 and pay 8% simple interest 
from the date of dispute until the date of settlement.
Miss F accepted our Investigators view. Virgin Money responded with just a copy of their 
final response letter from September 2022. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Virgin Money, as Miss Fs credit card account provider. Its not about 
the supplier, who arent a financial service provider and so dont fall within my remit.
There is no automatic obligation on a credit card issuer to provide redress where one of their 
customers uses their facilities to make a purchase, and something then goes wrong with that 
purchase. However, there are typically two avenues via which the credit card issuer can help 
or may have a legal liability.
Chargeback
I cant see Virgin Money considered Miss Fs request for a refund under the chargeback 
scheme. And while chargeback was available, I dont think it would have been of any help to 
Miss F. Ill explain why.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it may be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim. But there is a strict 
time limit within the chargeback rules which is set by the card scheme (not Virgin Money). 
The rules say Miss F had to raise a chargeback within 120 days of the last date she 
expected to receive the service from the supplier of the accommodation. So if Virgin Money 
had considered Miss Fs claim under the chargeback rules, I dont think it would have been 
successful as Miss F raised her dispute to Virgin Money more than 120 days after the last 
date she expected to receive the service, which was 11 October 2020.
Ill next go on to consider Miss Fs Section 75 claim and whether Virgin Money fairly 
responded to this.
Section 75
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case, I am required to give consideration to 
relevant law. Section 75 of the CCA says that, in certain circumstances, if Miss F paid for 
goods and services, in part or whole, on her Virgin Money credit card, and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, Virgin Money can be held 
responsible. For Section 75 to apply, certain criteria needs to be satisfied relating to things 
like the parties to the transaction, the way the payment was made and the cost of the goods. 
Im satisfied this is met and Section 75 applies here.
In this case, Virgin Money didnt think there was a breach of contract. They said this was 
because Covid-19 was out of both the suppliers and Miss Fs control, rendering the contract impossible to be fulfilled. Also, Virgin Money said the deposit Miss F paid was non-
refundable. But they said they understood the supplier of the accommodation had reopened 
their service, so suggested Miss F may be able to rebook or obtain a refund directly from the 
supplier.
Miss F has provided us with communication from the supplier. Having carefully considered 
this, the supplier clearly referred to their business being shut since the Covid-19 pandemic 
and that once they reopened, theyll honour any refund requests from their customers. I think 
this is sufficient evidence that the supplier wasnt able to provide the service and that they 
were going to provide Miss F with a refund, but it appears this didnt happen as it seems the 
supplier then ceased business. 
Ive next gone on to consider the suppliers terms and conditions to see what they say in the 
event the supplier isnt able to provide the service. I note the deposit was non-refundable, 
but the booking terms and conditions set out that in the event the property becomes 
unavailable through no fault of the supplier or the owner, and the balance has been paid 
(which it was in Miss Fs case), an alternative property would be offered. And in the event 
this wasnt possible, a refund will be arranged to the lead booker. An alternative property 
couldnt have been offered as the suppliers business was shut. And despite the promise of a 
refund from the supplier, Miss F never received this. I think these terms and conditions show 
that the supplier has thought about not being able to provide the service due to situations 
like this, where the property is unavailable due to circumstances outside of their control. But 
it appears to put this risk on the supplier and says if theyre unable to provide the service, 
they agree to give the customer a refund. In this case, that didnt happen, so, I think this is a 
breach of contract.
As a result of the above, I think Virgin Money treated Miss F unfairly when they declined to 
meet her claim under Section 75. So, I think Miss F should, therefore, receive a refund of the 
£5,000 she paid. Ive explained how this should be paid in the putting things right section of 
this decision below.
While Ive considered Virgin Moneys point about the contract being frustrated, this is not the 
same as breach of contract  its a different legal doctrine. In any case, the suppliers terms 
and conditions specifically cover a situation where theyre unable to provide the service 
through no fault of their own. Therefore, I dont think Virgin Money can argue the contract 
was frustrated. Ive already explained why I think there has been a breach of contract. 
Virgin Money acknowledged they took some time to provide Miss F with an answer to her 
claim  Miss F raised her claim in July 2021, and Virgin Money provided their response to 
the claim September 2022. 
Virgin Moneys internal notes show they were in regular contact with the supplier about Miss 
Fs claim for a refund and it got to a point where the supplier stopped replying to Virgin 
Money. I can understand why Miss F felt she had to bring her complaint to our service as 
she hadnt received an answer to her claim and I think Virgin Money could have been better 
at letting Miss F know they were regularly contacting the supplier for information. While 
Virgin Money have said theres no set timescale to deal with a Section 75 claim, I think 
taking over a year to provide their response to Miss Fs Section 75 claim seems 
unreasonable to me. As per my instruction in the below section, Ive recommended Virgin 
Money rework Miss Fs account as though the payment of £1,250 made in July 2019 had 
been refunded when Miss F raised her claim, rather than from the point they declined the 
claim, in recognition of the amount of time Virgin Money took to provide their final response 
letter.Putting things right
In summary, I require Virgin Money to:
Rework Miss Fs credit card account as though the payment of £1,250 made in July 
2019 had been refunded when Miss F raised her Section 75 claim. This means any 
interest, fees or charges relating to the payment from that date should be refunded, 
and any negative credit file reporting which may have been caused by it, removed. If 
a credit balance would have arisen on the account at any point, 8% simple interest 
per year* should be added to the refund, calculated from the date the credit balance 
would have arisen, to the date it would have ceased to exist.
Refund Miss F the £3,750 she paid of the remaining balance and pay 8% simple 
yearly interest from the date of Miss Fs dispute to the date of payment.
*If Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money considers that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss F how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Miss F a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money to carry out the actions as set out under the putting things right 
section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman