DRN-3705219
The complaint
Ms P complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly provided her with two credit card 
accounts and subsequently increased the credit limits for both over time. She says had it 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would have identified both the issuing 
of the cards and the credit limit increases were unaffordable for her.
What happened
Ms P opened two different credit cards accounts with NewDay. The first she opened in 
May 2019 and was given a credit limit of £500 (Card 1) and the second in July 2019 
with a credit limit of £450 (Card 2).
Ms P says that when applying for both credit cards she declared she was earning an 
annual income of between £20,000 and £26,000, although her actual earnings were 
much lower. She says she had based her earnings for each application on what she 
anticipated she would earn via various part-jobs that she was planning to combine with 
her full-time studies at university. Ms P says that when she applied for both cards, she 
also had unsecured debt of £6,500 which she declared, and her credit rating was fair.
NewDay offered Ms P a total of four increases to the credit limit for Card 1. These were 
as follows: February 2020 - £1,500, October 2020 - £2,500, March 2021 - £3,300, and 
in July 2021 - £4,050.
NewDay offered Ms P a total of three increases to the credit limit for Card 2. These were 
as follows: March 2020 - £1,700, August 2020 - £3,200 and November 2021 - £4,200.
Each time NewDay increased the credit limits for the cards, it wrote to Ms P setting out 
that if she didnt wish to have the limit increased then she should call and inform it and the 
limit would remain unchanged. Ms P didnt opt out of any of the increases made to the 
credit limits for either card.
Ms P says that as her earnings never met the amount she had projected, she fell into 
increasing financial difficulty and her unsecured debt increased. This led her to struggle to 
cover her everyday basic expenses and she says she has been living off her debt.
Ms P complained to NewDay about its lending practices as she said it should have 
conducted adequate affordability checks on both her applications for the credit cards and 
when it increased the credit limits. If it had, Ms P says, NewDay wouldnt have agreed to 
provide her with the two credit card accounts nor increased the credit limits. She said she 
couldnt afford to pay back what she owed particularly because of the subsequent credit 
limit increases and added interest. Ms P asked NewDay to write off the debt.
NewDay didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. It said that it is an instant credit provider and 
most of its applications were completed online. This meant that it didnt require evidence 
of income and expenditure by way of documents such as bank statements, but instead it 
used data submitted by the applicant and information from their credit file. NewDay said 
that it had based its assessment on what Ms P had said about her income, its estimate of 
her expenditure and what it could see on her credit file. It said that Ms P met its 
acceptance criteria and that the credit card accounts with limits of £500 for Card 1 and 
£450 for Card 2 had been provided correctly.
In respect of each of the credit limit increases, NewDay said that as part of its commitment 
to responsible lending it would regularly review how a customer used their account as well 
as how they were managing other credit commitments. It said it made risk-based 
assessments to ensure it was lending appropriately and these reviews could lead to either 
an increase or decrease in a credit limit. NewDay said it was satisfied that each of the 
increases in the credit limits of both cards had been handled correctly. It also said that Ms 
P had been provided with a 40-day opt-out when it had notified her of the increase to her 
balance.
NewDay said it had been Ms Ps decision to take these two credit accounts, it was her 
responsibility to manage and maintain them and also to notify it if there were 
circumstances that affected her ability to manage them.
Ms P was unhappy at NewDays decision and complained to this service. She said 
NewDay hadnt conducted adequate affordability checks when either agreeing to provide 
the two credit accounts nor when it had increased the credit limits. She said she was now 
struggling to make the payments both because of the interest that had been charged and 
the size of the balances. Ms P said she struggled to cover her other essential 
expenditure.
Our investigator recommended that Ms Ps complaint should be partially upheld. He said 
that the checks carried out by NewDay for the initial credit limits had been reasonable and 
proportionate and no adverse information had been revealed. He said that given the size 
of the lending along with what Ms P had told NewDay about her income at the time of 
applying, that it looked like she had enough disposable income each month to sustainably 
make the repayments on the lending in question over a reasonable period of time. Our 
investigator said he didnt think NewDay needed to have carried out more detailed checks 
and he wasnt persuaded that it had any reason to think that the initial lending nor the first 
credit limit increase on either of the credit cards was likely to have been unsustainable or 
unaffordable for Ms P.
However, our investigator said that prior to the second increase on each of the credit card 
accounts (October 2020 for Card 1 and August 2020 for Card 2) he thought there were 
unanswered questions about Ms Ps financial circumstances that NewDay would have 
been aware of. He said NewDay should have sought answers to these questions and so 
ensured the borrowing was sustainable for her. Our investigator said hed seen that Ms P 
had been charged for two cash advances on Card 2 prior to the August 2020 increase 
and that in light of the limits increasing to £3,200 (Card 2) and £2,500 (Card 1) then a 
more thorough check of Ms Ps financial circumstances should have been undertaken. 
He said he didnt think that for these two limit increases NewDay had conducted 
reasonable and proportionate checks.
Our investigator said that had NewDay verified Ms Ps income and expenses by asking 
for example for copies of her bank statements or payslips then it would have discovered 
her income was substantially less than she had declared. It would also have revealed 
that she appeared to be struggling financially and her bank account was in constant 
overdraft. He said he thought these two increases to Ms Ps credit card limits had been 
irresponsible as had the subsequent increases in March, July and November 2021.
The impact of these credit limit increases on Ms P had, said our investigator, led her to 
increase the size of her debts and struggle to make repayments. He said that to put things right he thought NewDay should do the following:
Refund all the interest and charges Ms P had paid over £1,500 since 
the first increase on Card 1.
Refund all the interest and charges Ms P had paid over £1,700 since 
the first increase on Card 2.
If there was borrowing still in place, it should reduce the outstanding 
capital balance by the amount calculated above.
If there remained an outstanding capital balance after the actions above, it 
should ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or 
charges. However, if there was a positive balance, then the amount in 
question should be given back to Ms P with interest added to that surplus.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ps credit file.
Ms P agreed with our investigators view but NewDay disagreed. It said that it had 
reviewed sufficient information when making its decisions about agreeing both of the 
credit card accounts and also the subsequent credit limit increases. NewDay said that Ms 
P had used both accounts well, staying within the agreed limits and paying more than the 
monthly contractual minimum payments, she had occasionally cleared her statement 
balance.
In respect of the cash advances, NewDay said this was a service which was available via 
the cards and it wasnt a cause for concern even if it was used regularly. However, Ms P 
had made only limited use of this facility. It said it was satisfied that its checks had been 
proportionate.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable or irresponsible lending complaints on 
our website and Id considered this when deciding Ms Ps complaint.
The rules and regulations in place throughout NewDays lending relationship with Ms P 
required it to carry out an assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed 
in a sustainable manner. Any such assessment needed to be borrower focused, 
meaning they should focus on the affordability of repayments and the potential for adverse 
financial impact on Ms P, rather than on the likelihood the credit would be repaid. Any 
assessment needed to be proportionate to the circumstances.
There isnt a prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I would 
have expected lenders to consider were the type and amount of credit, the borrower's 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
consumer's personal circumstances. I would also have expected it to have had access to 
information on the operation of each of the accounts. And I would look to see if the checks 
carried out had been proportionate to the amount of credit offered.
However, this wasnt an exhaustive list and even if not all of these checks had been 
carried out, I wouldnt necessarily think the lending had been irresponsible.
Here, Ms P had applied for both of these credit cards online and NewDay had explained 
that it wouldnt seek bank statements or payslips from an applicant when considering an 
application. It said that instead it verified a consumers financial circumstances by looking 
at data provided by the applicant and also by the credit bureau. The applicant was also 
asked to confirm the information provided was true.NewDay said its credit card accounts were aimed at consumers who are trying to rebuild 
their credit rating so it wouldnt automatically decline applications from those with a low 
income or a poor credit history.
The initial credit limits for Cards 1 and 2
Id seen that Ms P didnt appear to have given her true income when making either 
application for the two credit cards.
Card 1 - Ms P had applied in May 2019 and declared she earnt £20,000 per year and had 
unsecured debts of £6,500 which equated to about 32% of her annual income. She said 
her rent and expenses were £900 per month. These figures appeared to have left over 
half of her income as disposable. Her credit file showed she had seven active accounts 
(which would have included bank accounts), and there were no missed payments, 
arrears or defaults recorded. The underwriter had recorded her as being medium 
indebtedness.
Looking at the information and the level of credit that NewDay provided (£500), I agreed 
that the information considered by NewDay wouldnt have highlighted that Ms P would 
find repayments unsustainable. I thought its checks were reasonable and proportionate in 
the circumstances so I couldnt reasonably say that the provision of Card 1 had been 
irresponsible lending on the part of NewDay.
Card 2 - Ms P had applied in July 2019 and declared her earnings as £26,000 a year and 
her unsecured date as £6,400 which equated to around 25% of her annual income. There 
were no amounts recorded against her rent or expenses and the underwriter had noted 
that she had no accounts in arrears and no defaults though they had also noted that she 
was high indebtedness. A limit of £450 was agreed by NewDay.
Again, looking at the information and the level of credit that NewDay had provided to Ms P 
for this credit card account, I agreed that although there was a change in her 
indebtedness rating, there was nothing highlighted that would have indicated Ms P would 
have struggled to sustain repayments. I thought the checks carried out by NewDay were 
reasonable and proportionate and that NewDay hadnt irresponsibly provided Card 2 to Ms 
P.
Although I thought the provision of the two credit card accounts to Ms P werent the 
actions of an irresponsible lender, I needed to then consider if the credit limit increases 
required NewDay to look beyond the information it had about Ms P.
First credit limit increases  February 2020 and March 2020
Card 1 - The first increase for Card 1 had been around 10 months after Ms P had opened 
the account. The limit was increased to £1,500. Id seen that prior to this uplift, Ms P hadnt 
exceeded the original limit and had paid more than the minimum contractual payment on a 
number of occasions. She had also cleared the balance off in full in October 2019.
Looking at her credit file, Id also seen that at that time her overall outstanding debt had 
been reducing. Ms P had used the card regularly, and I thought it was fair to say she had 
been managing her account. The evidence from the credit agencies also indicated she 
had been managing her other credit accounts. I therefore thought that the limit rise in 
February 2020 was based on reasonable and proportionate checks.
Card 2  The first increase for Card 2 had again been around 10 months after Ms P had 
opened the account. The information before NewDay was the same picture as it had been when it increased the credit limit for Card 1. At that time, Ms P was only using 
around 50% of Card 2s limit, she was making regular payments and her overall 
outstanding credit balance was reducing. I was satisfied that this increase would have 
been found to be sustainably affordable for Ms P by NewDay on the information it had 
and that its checks had been reasonable and proportionate.
Second credit limit increases  August and October 2020
Card 2  the credit limit had been raised for a second time first for this card in August 2020 
to £3,200. Card 1s credit limit was raised two months later.
Our investigator had said that it was these second credit limit rises which would have 
required NewDay to go further in its checks than it had previously. This was because prior 
to the limits increasing Ms P had used the cash advance facility twice. He said this was 
evidence that further details as to income and outgoings should have been sought to 
ensure these rises were sustainably affordable for Ms P. NewDay disputed this view.
Id seen that in May 2020, Ms P had taken a cash advance of £600 via this facility but 
Id also seen that the following month she had cleared the outstanding balance of the 
credit card account which had been around £1,150. Additionally, there had been a 
reduction of the overall outstanding balances of Ms Ps credit accounts.
I couldnt see that Ms P had been regularly using the cash advance facility for this card, 
her account appeared to have been well managed and there was no adverse information 
on her credit file. I couldnt reasonably say that, taking all the available information 
together, the use of the cash advance facility in these circumstances should have raised a 
red flag with NewDay that a further increase in its lending to Ms P may be sustainably 
unaffordable and it needed to take a deeper look at her income and outgoings. I thought 
the overall picture appeared to show that Ms P was managing her credit accounts and her 
overall debt was reducing meaning that an increase of this size, based on an income of 
£26,000 per year was sustainably affordable. I thought the checks carried out by NewDay 
for this second rise had been reasonable and proportionate.
Card 1 - The second rise for Card 1 had occurred in October 2020. Id seen that, before 
this rise Ms P had again used the cash advance facility provided by Card 2 but only for an 
advance of £50. There had been no cash advances using Card 1, though it had this 
facility. Although the overall outstanding balances on Ms Ps accounts were by now 
increasing the total amount owed had still been lower than when she had taken out the 
card.
I thought that taking into account Miss P had stated she had an annual income of between
£20,000 and £26,000; that she appeared to be managing this and her other credit 
accounts well plus there was no adverse information on her credit file that this credit limit 
increase appeared to be sustainably affordable for her. I thought NewDays checks on 
Ms P had been proportionate and reasonable for this second increase in the credit limit.
Third and subsequent credit limit increases  March, July and November 2021 
Card 1 - In March 2021 NewDay had increased the credit limit to £3,300. 
However, the information from Ms Ps account had now changed. It showed 
that despite making regular payments Ms P hadnt really reduced the credit limit 
on this account and, from the information on her credit file, her other 
outstanding balances had increased.
The outstanding credit balance was now higher than when she had taken out the credit card. And since her indebtedness had been considered high at the time she had taken out 
Card 2, I thought the increase in the amount shed owed and her level of earnings 
(£20,000 to £26,000 per year) meant that before increasing her credit limit by a further 
£800 that a more detailed check on the affordability of this rise should have been 
conducted by NewDay.
The information before NewDay had been suggesting that things had potentially changed 
for Ms P financially and so, before it increased the available credit to her, it would have 
been reasonable and proportionate for it to have sought details about her income and 
outgoings. I didnt think this further increase had been sustainably affordable for Ms P.
There had been a further credit limit rise for Card 1 in July 2021 to £4,050. As her 
circumstances hadnt improved from March 2021 and her debts were not reducing, then 
for the same reasons as set out above, I didnt think New Day had carried out 
proportionate and reasonable checks. I didnt think this increase had been sustainably 
affordable for Ms P.
Card 2  In November 2021 the credit limit was raised to £4,200. Although Ms P hadnt 
defaulted on payments for this or her other credit accounts nor had she exceeded the 
credit limit set, she was now using around 80% plus of the £3,200 limit. Ms Ps overall 
credit debt was also higher than when she had taken the credit card out. Id seen she had 
made use of the money transfer facility in July and September 2021.
I thought in these circumstances that it would have been proportionate and reasonable 
for NewDay to have asked further questions about Ms Ps financial situation to verify 
that the repayments on the card were affordable, particularly as it had earlier increased 
Card 1 by £800. I thought the information before it was indicating a change to Ms Ps 
financial circumstances that reasonably needed to be investigated as her indebtedness 
had now been greater than it had been before.
I didnt know what additional checks NewDay would have undertaken. If it had asked for 
proof of income or further details about Ms Ps expenses, then looking at the bank 
statements she had provided to this service, I thought it would have been clear her 
income hadnt matched the amount she had declared on either of her applications forms. 
It would also have shown that her bank account was always making use of an overdraft 
facility to cover her payments. I thought it was reasonable to say that based on her 
income and expenses, Ms P didnt have the means available to her to sustainably pay the 
credit card limits following the increases for both cards in March, July and November 
2021.
As Ms P had received benefit from the money she had borrowed, I thought it was fair 
that she remained liable for any remaining amount outstanding. But I intended to instruct 
NewDay to refund interest and charges to Ms Ps Card 1 account for any amount 
borrowed over and above the limit of £2,500. In the event that the refunded interest and 
charges result in a surplus balance falling due to Ms P, then NewDay should also add 
interest of 8% simple to this figure.
As I also thought NewDays decision to increase the credit limit for Card 2 from 
November 2021 had been inappropriate, I intended to ask it to refund all charges and 
interest on this account for any amount borrowed over £3,200. Again, in the event that 
the refunded interest and charges result in a surplus balance falling due to Ms P, then 
NewDay should also add interest of 8% simple to this figure.
Finally, I didnt believe that it was fair or reasonable for Ms Ps credit file to be adversely 
impacted by NewDays decisions. So, once the outstanding balances had been repaid, I 
intended to instruct NewDay to remove any related adverse information reported from Ms Ps credit file.
Neither Ms P nor NewDay has asked me to reconsider any part of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to look again at my provisional decision, I have still 
reviewed the evidence and the conclusions I reached. I havent changed my mind and still 
think that it would have been reasonable and proportionate for NewDay to have carried out 
further checks into the affordability of the credit rises for card 1 and 2 in March, July and 
November 2021. This is because the information before it was indicating that Ms Ps 
financial circumstances had changed in March 2021. I also think that had it carried out these 
checks it would have seen that these credit rises werent sustainably affordable for her.
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Ms Ps complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking NewDay to do the following:
Refund all charges and interest relating to any balance owed above the limit of
£2,500 on Card 1.
Refund all charges and interest relating to any balance owed above the limit of
£3,200 on Card 2.
If an outstanding balance remains owed on either or both accounts once the 
refunds have been made, then it should contact Ms P to discuss a suitable 
repayment plan.
If the effect of refunding all interest, fees and charges leaves a credit balance on 
either account, the balance should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Ms P along with 8% interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Amend Ms Ps credit file to reflect the new monthly balances after refund of 
interest and charges.
Remove any related adverse information from Ms Ps credit file once the 
outstanding balances have been repaid.
My final decision
As set out above, Im partially upholding Ms Ps complaint. Im asking NewDay Ltd to 
do the following:
Refund all charges and interest relating to any balance owed above the limit of
£2,500 on Card 1.
Refund all charges and interest relating to any balance owed above the limit of
£3,200 on Card 2.
If an outstanding balance remains owed on either or both accounts once the 
refunds have been made, then it should contact Ms P to discuss a suitable 
repayment plan.
If the effect of refunding all interest, fees and charges leaves a credit balance on 
either account, the balance should be treated as overpayments and returned to 
Ms P along with 8% interest from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.Amend Ms Ps credit file to reflect the new monthly balances after refund of 
interest and charges.
Remove any related adverse information from Ms Ps credit file once the 
outstanding balances have been repaid.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman