DRN-4480040
The complaint
Ms G complains that Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) took nearly 28 days to complete a
transfer from her account, causing her distress, inconvenience and financial loss.
What happened
On around 2 September 2022, Ms G attempted to transfer funds from her Citibank account
to an overseas account she holds with another bank, which Ill call C. The money didnt
arrive within the timescale Ms G was expecting, so she called Citibank. She says she called
numerous times to find out what was happening. By 14 September, the money still hadnt
reached C, so Ms G raised a complaint with Citibank.
Citibank said it had received confirmation from C that they hadnt received the funds. It said
it had contacted the relevant team to find out the status of the funds but couldnt commit to a
timescale for obtaining this information. It said it would contact Ms G when it received an
answer. Citibank acknowledged that Ms G was experiencing a delay. But it didnt uphold the
complaint as it said it had operated in line with its processes.
The payment reached C on 30 September. Ms G was very unhappy that it had taken so
long. She asked Citibank for compensation. Citibank acknowledged that the payment was
very important to her and apologised for any inconvenience caused. But it said there were
no unnecessary delays in carrying out her payment request. It offered her £50 as a gesture
of goodwill, which it later increased to £100. I understand that this hasnt been paid to date
as Ms G didnt accept the offer.
Ms G asked this service to look at the complaint. She says that, when she confirmed her
payment instructions to Citibank, its agent told her that the funds would reach C within three
to five working days. But it took much longer than this and Ms G says she had to keep
chasing Citibank for updates. She says the situation was very distressing as she was
transferring a large sum of money and didnt know what had happened to it.
Ms G says she also suffered financially as a result of the delay. She transferred the funds in
Sterling. But, soon afterwards, she converted them into another currency. As the funds didnt
reach C until 30 September, Ms G says the earliest she was able to convert them was 4
October. She says that, by this date, the exchange rate was less favourable than it had been
when she gave the transfer instruction. As a result, she says she decided to convert only half
the funds, to minimise her loss. She says she has suffered a loss in the region of £4,000 -
£9,000 as a result of the delay and wants to be compensated accordingly.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October, indicating my intention to uphold the complaint 
and award Ms G compensation of £300. Citibank accepted my provisional findings. But Ms 
G felt that the compensation was too little for the very poor way in which she says Citibank 
handled her case. She says that Citibank made a mistake in processing her instruction and 
didnt act promptly to correct it, causing her stress, panic and pain. She says that Citibank 
has subsequently closed her account and she believes this is in retaliation for her bringing 
this complaint. She provided some further information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of Ms Gs latest comments and thought about everything again. Im sorry 
to disappoint Ms G, but I havent changed my mind about what I think is a fair outcome to 
this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
The terms and conditions of Ms Gs account say that Citibank will make sure payments
reach the recipients account no later than the time indicated in its Rates and Charges
Information document. This document says that, for Swift payments sent outside the UK (as
was the case here), execution times will depend on the destination country. I find that Ms G
gave the payment instruction to Citibank on 2 September. She says she was told the
payment would reach C within three to five working days. This is line with information on
Citibanks website, which says Sending money by SWIFT enables you to send money from
your Citi UK account to a non-Citi account anywhere in the world in 1-5 working days. The
clearance time will depend on the destination and currency of the transfer.
So, I find that the funds should have reached C by 9 September at the latest and Citibank
was responsible for ensuring they did so. But the funds didnt reach C until 30 September.
Im satisfied that the payment details provided by Ms G were correct. So, from the outset,
Citibank had all the information it needed to complete the payment.
I asked Citibank for details of the route the payment took. Its not unusual for banks to use
intermediaries to process international transfers. This is because not every bank has a direct
business relationship with all other banks in the world. Sometimes another bank (referred to
as a correspondent bank) is used to bridge the gap between the paying bank and the
receiving bank. Here, there were several parties involved.
Citibank says that the payment was routed through its internal correspondent and then on to
an external correspondent bank which Ill call M. But M didnt have a direct relationship with
C, so C appointed a correspondent bank as well. Citibank has confirmed that it processed
Ms Gs transfer on 2 September and sent the funds to M that day.
But the payment seems to have been delayed on the next leg of its journey. Citibank says
that the funds were with M until 30 September. It says it has raised a request with M to find
out why they held on to the funds. As far as Im aware, Citibank hasnt received a response
from M. From the limited information available to me, it appears that the funds were sent by
Citibank to M and held up there. M was acting for Citibank as its agent. I dont think Ms G
should be worse off because of any mistakes made by Citibanks agent, if thats what
happened here. The evidence here is incomplete and inconclusive as to exactly what 
happened to the funds, where and why they were delayed. So Ive made my decision 
against that background.
Where a transfer appears to be delayed like this, Id expect the sending bank to make the
necessary enquiries to find out what has happened and to take prompt, reasonable steps to
ensure that the matter is resolved. Citibank says it received a message from C on 5
September, saying they hadnt received the payment. Ms G says she also called Citibank on
9 and 14 September. But Citibank didnt contact M until 16 September to find out what was
happening. I think it should have acted sooner, when it first heard from C.
Ms G has provided a message which Citibank sent to her on 22 September which she says 
shows the significant delay by Citibank in taking charge of the problem. Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Citibank contacted M before this  on 16 September. But, as 
Ive said, I dont think that was soon enough. And I think Citibank should have been more 
proactive in updating Ms G. It should have treated her concerns with a greater sense of 
urgency.
Citibank says its transfer team followed up with M but didnt receive a timely response, which
caused delays. Its unfortunate that M doesnt appear to have been very responsive. But, on
the available evidence, I cant conclude that Citibank took all relevant steps to ensure that
the payment arrived with C within a reasonable time. And it was already delayed by the time
Citibank first contacted M.
Ms G says its hard to believe that M didnt respond to Citibanks request of 16 September. 
She has pointed out that C contacted the correspondent bank on 28 September, apparently 
prompting the completion of the transfer, as the funds reached C two days later. 
Unfortunately, the evidence isnt complete here so I dont have the full picture of what 
happened at every step of the transfer. The evidence I have seen shows that Citibank 
contacted M and didnt receive a substantive response. 
The payment did reach C in the end, but it was delayed quite significantly. Ms G says this
caused her financial loss. The funds were transferred in Sterling, but Ms G says her intention
was to convert them all into another currency upon receipt. She had been expecting to do
this on or around 9 September. But, because of the delayed transfer, the earliest she was
able to convert the funds was 4 October. She says that the exchange rate was less
favourable by this time. As a result, she only converted half the funds and says this cost her
more than it should have done because of the delay.
I can understand Ms Gs disappointment in relation to the currency conversion. But Citibank
wasnt involved in that transaction I havent seen anything to suggest it knew of her intention
to convert the funds. I dont think Citibank could have foreseen that there would be any
currency conversion loss as a result of the delayed transfer. So, whilst Im sorry to disappoint
Ms G, Im not going to ask Citibank to do anything about this.
But I do think Citibank needs to pay Ms G some compensation for the distress and
inconvenience she experienced. The funds arrived much later than Citibank said they would.
It appears the delay was caused by Citibank and/or its agent. Once it was known the funds
hadnt arrived, I think Citibank could have done more to try to ensure the funds arrived within
a reasonable time. I think it could also have done more to keep Ms G informed and I dont
think its responses to her complaint acknowledged the real impact of the situation. Ms G has 
provided more information about this and I remain satisfied that Citibanks communication 
with her about this issue was poor and added to the overall distress of the situation.
Ms G had transferred a large sum of money. Understandably, it was extremely worrying and
stressful when the money didnt reach C within the expected timescale. The delay was
significant and Citibank wasnt able to tell Ms G where the money was during this time.
Instead, whilst acknowledging that there was a delay, Citibank rejected Ms Gs complaint
and said it had operated in line with its processes. I dont think that was reasonable. In the
end, Citibank offered Ms G £100 to recognise the delay. But that was only because of further
contact from her. Overall, I dont think Citibank acted fairly.
Ms G says that Citibank has now closed her account because her balance was below a 
certain threshold. I can understand this was disappointing for Ms G. But the account closure 
is an entirely separate issue from the money transfer which Im considering here. It doesnt 
form part of this complaint. So, Im not going to make any findings about the account closure 
or award any compensation for that here. Ms G can of course raise the issue of the account 
closure as a new complaint to be looked at separately if she wishes.Putting things right
In light of all the above issues, I dont think £100 is enough compensation for this complaint. 
I think Citibank needs to pay a higher amount to recognise the impact this had on Ms G. But 
Im looking at the situation impartially and our awards arent intended to punish businesses. 
On balance, I still think £300 is a fair amount of compensation in the circumstances here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Citibank UK Limited should pay 
compensation of £300 to Ms G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman