DRN-3821825
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C are unhappy with the service theyve received from Santander UK Plc
surrounding Santanders incorrect closure of some accounts.
What happened
Mr C held a power of attorney for his sister, who had a current account and a savings
account with Santander. Mr C sent a letter to Santander requesting the closure of his sisters
savings account, with the current account to remain open. Santander then sent a letter
asking Mr C to confirm the closure of the account, which Mr C signed and returned.
However, Santander then proceeded to close Mr Cs sisters current account  and not the
savings account as requested  and also closed a current account held jointly in Mr C and
Mrs Cs names, and which had no connection to Mr Cs sister at all. Mr C and Mrs C werent
happy about this, and so they raised a complaint.
 
Santander looked at Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. They said that Mr C had requested the
closure of the two accounts online via secured messaging and noted that the confirmation
letter theyd sent Mr C had referenced Mr C and Mrs Cs joint current account and Mr Cs
sisters current account, and they felt that by signing and returning that letter that Mr C had
confirmed the closure of those accounts. Mr C and Mrs C werent satisfied with Santanders
response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it was more likely than not
that Mr C had requested to closure of the two accounts, but they felt that the service that Mr
C and Mrs C had received from Santander surrounding the matter, including Santanders
clarity of communication, had caused Mr C and Mrs C to incur upset and inconvenience that
they reasonably ought not to have incurred. Our investigator therefore recommended that
this complaint be upheld on that basis, and that Santander should make a payment of £200
to Mr C and Mrs C as compensation for the trouble and upset that theyd incurred. Mr C and
Mrs C werent happy with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, and so
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 November 2022 as follows:
In their initial response to Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint, Santander said that Mr C had 
asked for the closure of the two accounts that were ultimately closed via secured 
messaging. Mr C has always said that this wasnt the case, and that the only request 
he sent for an account closure was sent by letter and was for the closure of his 
sisters savings account only.
 
Ive asked Santander to provide copies of any online request to close an account 
made by Mr C. In response, Santander confirmed that no such request is on file, and 
that the only request to close an account made by Mr C that is on file is the letter that 
Mr C sent which requested the closure of his sisters savings account  as Mr C has 
always maintained.
 
It therefore seems clear that the letter that Santander subsequently sent to Mr C 
which referenced the two accounts that were then closed  Mr Cs sisters current 
account and the current account held jointly by Mr C and Mrs C  was a mistake on 
Santanders part. And Santander, during this services investigation of this complaint, 
have accepted that errors were made by Santander which led to Mr C and Mrs Cs 
complaint.
 
Santander have also explained that, while the letter that referenced the two incorrect
accounts was a mistake, Mr C did sign and return that letter, and in doing so 
confirmed that he was happy for those accounts to be closed.
 
But Mr C had asked for his sisters savings account to be closed, and its notable that 
while the letter that Mr C signed and returned did quote two incorrect account 
numbers, the body of the letter asked Mr C to confirm that he wanted to close his 
account  that is, a singular account, and not accounts in the plural.
 
Additionally, the letter that Mr C sent to Santander requesting the closure of his 
sisters account was very succinct and very clear. And so I can understand why Mr C 
would have believed that Santander would have correctly understood his request to 
close his sisters savings account, and would therefore have signed and returned the 
letter as he did  which unfortunately led to the closure of the two incorrect accounts.
 
Ultimately, I feel that the root cause of the incorrect closure of the two accounts rests 
with Santander here, and as such that they should be considered as being 
responsible for the incorrect closure of the accounts. And this is especially the case 
given that Santander have also confirmed that a jointly held current account  such 
as the current account held in Mr C and Mrs Cs joint names  should only be closed 
following a visit to branch by both account holders who must request such a closure 
in person and provide identity verification documents to Santander to do so  which 
didnt happen in this instance.
 
It's also clear that the incorrect closure of the accounts had a considerable impact on 
Mr C and Mrs C, both in terms of their stress and frustration in trying to resolve this 
matter with Santander and the added anxiety of trying to put right not only their own 
finances but also those of Mr Cs sister, who was elderly and infirm at that time and 
who, sadly, has subsequently passed away.
 
Its very clear from their correspondence with this service that Mr C and Mrs C feel 
strongly about this complaint and this is evidenced by their asking this service to 
punitively fine Santander for their poor conduct surrounding this matter. But this 
service isnt a regulatory body, and as such it isnt within the remit of this service to 
punish or fine and business as Mr C and Mrs C would like here.
 
However, given the full circumstances of this complaint, including the obviously 
difficulty that Mr C and Mrs C had communicating with Santander about the 
incorrectly closed accounts, as well as the fact that Mr C and Mrs C were for a time 
uncertain as to where the large amount of money that had been held in their joint 
current account had gone to, I do feel the £200 compensation as recommended by 
our investigator doesnt provide a fair or reasonable level of compensation for the 
amount of upset, frustration, and difficulty that Mr C and Mrs C have unfairly incurred 
here because of Santanders mistakes. 
As such, my provisional decision is that Im upholding this complaint in Mr C and Mrs 
Cs favour and instructing Santander to make a larger compensation payment of 
£500 to them, which I feel more fairly reflects what has taken place here.
Both Mr C and Mrs C, and Santander, have subsequently confirmed that they accept my 
provisional decision. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this 
complaint in Mr C and Mrs Cs favour on the basis explained above. And I can confirm that 
my final decision is that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Santander must make a payment of £500 to Mr C and Mrs C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman