DRN-1494355
Complaint
Miss B has complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called 
MYJAR Limited. Miss B says she was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused her 
financial problems.
Background
We now know that Miss B took out 4 instalment loans from MYJAR between April 2017 and 
May 2019. Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Bs borrowing with MYJAR, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 3 onwards. MYJAR doesnt agree to this so the complaint has 
come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking about Miss Bs 
complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss B could repay all the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks 
ought to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being 
lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Miss B could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MYJAR told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Miss B. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which MYJAR most likely carried out, together with the income and expenditure 
details provided by Miss B herself would have made the early loans appear affordable. 
Specifically, I think these checks would have probably been proportionate for loans 1 and 2 
and also made MYJAR think it was alright to lend her the money on both occasions. I 
therefore dont uphold the complaint in respect of loans 1 and 2.
However, I think the emerging pattern of repeated lending from the point of loan 3 onwards 
in this case looked different and therefore required a more in-depth and responsible 
approach. The overall pattern of MYJARs lending to Miss B at the point of loan 3 should 
have caused it to see, in my view, that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
This is because this was Miss Bs third consecutive short-term loan with MYJAR in almost 20 
months or so, without any meaningful breaks. So shed been charged high-interest on short-
term loans over a significant period. Ive taken into account that the amounts being borrowed 
for loans 3 and 4 were relatively small, but the interest rates werent. I have also considered 
that the amounts borrowed for loans 3 and 4 were for markedly reduced principal amounts; 
loan 3, for example was for £150 which was smaller than had previously been lent to her. 
However, because loans 3 and 4 were repayable over much-reduced terms (3 months) the 
actual monthly outlay to Miss B was broadly unchanged and actually rose slightly by loan 
number 4. 
Given that Miss B had been continually borrowing for so long MYJAR ought to have realised 
that she wasnt merely borrowing to deal with short-term cash-flow problems; she was 
borrowing regularly, to address shortfalls in her income and to meet an ongoing need. She 
was having to consistently take out high interest, short-term lending over a sustained period 
and the indebtedness caused by this type of borrowing was harmful, in my view. MYJAR 
should have realised Miss B was at risk of not managing to repay the loans sustainably or 
getting into financial difficulties.
So Im upholding this complaint in respect of loans 3 and 4. MYJAR repeatedly lent to Miss B 
in an unsustainable manner because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Miss B borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans
 Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
the number of loans taken from loan 3 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 3 and 4 should be completely 
removed from Miss Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partly uphold Miss Bs complaint. MYJAR Limited should put things 
right for Miss B as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
 
 
Appendix
 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest Monthly
Repayment
1 28-Apr-17 18-Oct-17 6 £700.00 £212.64
2 01-Dec-17 13-Dec-18 12 £550.00 £83.17
3 18-Dec-18 29-Mar-19 3 £150.00 £81.29
4 10-May-19 31-Jul-19 3 £200.00 £99.93
 
 
 
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman