DRN-3463409
The complaint
Mr E complains through his representative that Everyday Lending Limited lent him money on
a high interest loan which he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Mr E with a loan on 28 January 2019, for £5,500, repayable in 36
monthly instalments of around £272.
Mr E got into difficulties with the repayments, and complained that the loan wasnt 
affordable to him.
Everyday said the loan was taken out to consolidate some of his credit commitments. 
In assessing the affordability of the loan it had taken into account:
One months bank statement from Mr E's primary bank account.
A Credit Search.
A job check, verifying Mr Es employment and income, from payslip and a letter 
from his employer confirming his new salary from his new job starting in November 
2018.
An assessment of Mr Es outgoings using ONS (Office for National Statistics) data.
It calculated that the loan was affordable for Mr E.
Our adjudicator thought that Everyday had completed reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. He didnt think it was wrong for Everyday to lend to Mr E 
because its checks showed the loan would likely be affordable and sustainably 
repaid.
Mr E didnt agree. He felt Everyday hadnt taken into account a number of payday loans, the
fact that he had just changed his job and he was on a lower monthly pay than Everyday
assessed, and payments on a loan he had taken out in September with an associated
company. He also said his bank statements showed money taken out for gambling.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that It was my view that Everyday carried out 
proportionate checks. However on the basis of the checks it did, I didnt think the loan was 
shown to be sustainable. I didnt think Everyday made a fair lending decision.
Neither party commentedomn  my prpvsisoanl findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were my provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible 
lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
E would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr E would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Es ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr E undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make 
any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr E. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
When Everyday carried out its affordability assessment, it calculated that Mr E was liable for
total monthly payments of about £1,995 for his credit commitments, about 58% of his
assessed income of £3,418. It calculated that his disposable monthly income was -£261. It
further calculated that by paying off two loans and a mail-order account the latter figure, with 
the new loan instalment would be about +£155. Though his credit commitments would still
be quite high  about 39% of his income.Although Everyday did take the payments for its associated companys previous loan into 
account, I cant see that it considered why Mr E, having received that loan which was for
£14,000, left him in a position where he didnt appear to have paid off loan accounts and 
ended up with a negative disposable income. From his bank statements it appears that his 
account was running an overdraft and that this only didnt increase because of the loans he 
had had. Further the two major loans he was paying off had only been taken out 
respectively in November and December 2018.
Although theres no indication in the statements of any gambling, there were a considerable 
number of payments to an online payment service which effectively left Mr E with no 
disposable income at the end of the month.
Mr E as far as I can see, did pay off the loans he had intended to consolidate with the 
Everyday loan. And this did reduce his immediate credit commitments. However, his two 
wage payments for November and December averaged just £3,175 (which Everyday had 
estimated at £3,418). So, leaving a disposable income of just £155 a month with such a 
high degree of credit commitments made this loan in my view unsustainable.
It's my view that Everyday carried out proportionate checks. However on the basis of the
checks it did, I dont think the loan was shown to be sustainable. I dont think Everyday made
a fair lending decision.
As neither party has commented on my provisional findings, those findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Mr E has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that he should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest and charges 
as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr E as payments towards the capital amount of £5,500.
If Mr E has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr E.
Remove, as appropriate, any adverse information about the loan from Mr Es credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman