the complaint
Mr O complains that Virgin Money plc failed to sufficiently notify him about the 
withdrawal of a promotional rate of interest on his credit card.
what happened
Mr O had a credit card with Virgin Money, with a promotional rate of interest of zero 
percent on purchases. This promotional rate was due to end in January 2019.
In May 2016 Mr O exceeded his credit limit and Virgin Money withdrew the 
promotional rate. They say they withdrew the rate because Mr O had gone over his 
agreed credit limit. Everyone agrees that, under the terms and conditions of Mr Os 
credit card, Virgin Money had the right to withdraw the promotional rate.
Mr O is unhappy because he thinks Virgin Money shouldve done more to notify him 
that they'd withdrawn the promotional rate at the time it happened. He says, if they 
had, he wouldve paid off the balance and wouldn't have incurred the cost of the 
interest he's been charged.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, he thought Virgin Money had acted fairly in 
the way they withdrew the promotional rate. He said that Mr O was made aware the 
rate would be withdrawn if he exceeded the credit limit on his credit card, both in the 
terms and conditions and on his credit card statements. So he didn't uphold Mr O's 
complaint.
Mr O disagreed with our investigators opinion and asked for an Ombudsmans final 
decision, so the case has come to me.
what Ive decided  and why
I can see that Mr O was informed of the following when he applied for the credit card; 
"If... you go over your credit limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect 
from the start of that statement period." The same text is also in the full terms and 
conditions of the card, where it states; "when a promotional rate ends or is 
withdrawn, we charge the current standard interest rate that applies to that 
transaction." So, from the start, Mr O should've been aware that the promotional rate 
would be withdrawn if he went over his agreed credit limit. 
Mr O says that, whilst he was informed about the potential consequences of going 
over his credit limit, he should've been clearly notified at the time the promotional 
DRN-1000090offer was withdrawn. So I've looked closely at what information was made available 
to Mr O when he went over his limit.
On 15 May 2018 Virgin Money sent Mr O a letter saying he'd gone over his agreed 
credit limit. I can't see that this letter contained any reference to the withdrawal of the 
promotional rate. I can understand why Mr O feels that more information could've 
been provided to him on this letter, and I agree it would've been a good opportunity 
for Virgin Money to have reminded him about the terms relating to his promotional 
rate.
I've also looked at the statements Virgin Money sent to Mr O. The front page of each 
statement shows how much interest will be applied. And, in the 'your interest 
explained' section, it explains how interest will be charged across different 
transaction types. Below this it states "If... you go over your credit limit we will 
withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement period."
In the months preceding 15 May 2018 Mr Os statements all show that the 
promotional rate was applied. They state there is zero interest due and they also 
provide a breakdown to show the balance on which the promotional rate applies. On 
the statement dated 16 May 2018, after Mr O had gone over his credit limit, the front 
page of the statement says that the account is over the agreed limit and the 
estimated interest to be applied to Mr O's account was £85.16. And, in the 'your 
interest explained' section it shows that interest will be applied to the full outstanding 
balance. 
So, whilst they didn't explicitly say the promotional rate had been withdrawn, I do 
think the statements Virgin Money sent Mr O made it clear that hed gone over his 
credit limit and that he would be charged interest on his balance. The information in 
his statement provided Mr O with the opportunity to pay off the balance and not incur 
the cost of the interest. Its Mr Os responsibility to read his statements and if he was 
unsure about the information on his statement of 16 May 2018 Mr O could've 
contacted Virgin Money for further clarification. 
Taking everything into account I think Virgin Money did enough to make Mr O aware 
of the terms of his promotional rate when he took out the card, and to inform him that 
he was accruing interest after hed breached these terms.
my final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2019.
Lee Crawford
ombudsman