DRN-2446312
The complaint
Mr N complains that Premier Insurance Company Limited unreasonably declined a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy by relying on a policy exclusion.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr N told Premier that hed noted a burning smell when driving and then 
found flames coming from the wiring loom, which he extinguished. Damage caused by fire is 
covered by the policy. Premier asked an independent firm of engineers (firm B) to assess 
the damage and the cause of it. Firm B thought the damage was caused by an electrical 
fault. Premier pointed out that the policy excluded claims arising from electrical faults. It 
didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint about its decision, but it said it would consider any further 
evidence should he instruct an independent engineer. Mr N decided not to do that and 
contacted this service instead.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ns complaint. She noted that firm B had only carried 
out a visual inspection of the car. She didnt think Premier had provided evidence about the 
damage being caused by an electrical fault, so she thought it should reassess the claim and 
appoint another independent engineer to examine the car. She also thought Premier should 
pay Mr N £100 compensation for the delay caused in not assessing his claim fairly. 
Premier offered to pay half the cost of another engineers report, on the basis that if it 
confirmed the fault was electrical, Mr N would refund that cost. Mr N declined the offer, so 
the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We normally give great weight to the views of independent engineers, whose reports are 
usually very detailed and clear. In this case, firm Bs report is based on a visual inspection 
only, as no dismantling took place. The engineer said the coating of wires from the wiring 
harness had melted and the harness was charred. But he found no sign of fire to the cars 
underside or around the car generally. He concluded that there was no flame damage and 
that the fault was electrical (although hed started his report by saying that the car had 
suffered moderate fire (electrical) to the front engine bay). The engineer also said that if 
Premier required a forensic examination to be done, firm Bs sister company could do it.
 
I think the independent engineers report left much scope for confusion. He mentioned 
charring (usually caused by extreme heat or fire) and he also said a fire had occurred. But 
despite that, he said there was no evidence of flame damage. And crucially, he didnt explain 
what he thought the electrical fault was. When the investigator asked for more details, 
Premier went back to firm B, but no further information was forthcoming. 
In circumstances like this, where there was a lack of clarity - and where firm Bs engineer 
had raised the issue of a possible forensic examination  I think it would have been 
reasonable for Premier to arrange for a further assessment of the car to be done before 
declining the claim. Its possible that the fault was electrical, and if it was, Premier has the 
right to decline the claim. But Mr N is certain that he smelled smoke whilst driving, and that 
he found fire in the engine. Charring is usually indicative of fire, and it seems it was present 
on inspection of the engine. But the main point is that if Premier wants to rely on a policy 
exclusion, it has to show that the exclusion applies. I dont think it has done that so far.
I think Premier should arrange for a further assessment to be carried out by a different firm 
of independent engineers and share the report with Mr N. Should the new assessment not 
conclude that theres evidence of an electrical fault having caused the damage  and explain 
precisely what it is - Id expect Premier to reconsider and pay the claim (with interest).
 
In the circumstances here, I think it should have been clear to Premier that further 
assessment of the car was necessary, so I think it should pay Mr N £100 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused to him by not arranging it sooner, whatever the outcome.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Premier Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Arrange for a further assessment of the car to be carried out by a different firm of 
independent engineers / forensic engineers and share its report with Mr N
Reassess the claim in the light of the new report, and take appropriate action 
Pay Mr N £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman