DRN-2165534
The complaint
Mrs D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs D took out the PPI in 2000 in connection with a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mrs D didnt agree with 
the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
buy it. I say this because Mrs D ticked the PPI section on the credit card application 
form to show that she wanted the cover.  So I think Mrs D wouldve realised she had 
a choice about whether or not to buy the PPI. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs D might 
have had to cover her repayments. 
But even if RBS had recommended the PPI to Mrs D, it doesnt look as though it was 
unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.
Even though Mrs D has said she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she 
couldnt work because of sickness or accident, the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to her employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the 
policy in place wouldve meant Mrs D could use her employer benefits to pay for 
other expenses. 
So I think Mrs D wouldve had some use for the policy, despite her existing 
arrangements. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs D off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mrs D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman