DRN-3501411
The complaint
Mr W complains he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his Armed Forces Pension 
Scheme (AFPS) that he held with his former employer to personal pension plans (PP). 
The advice was provided by a firm who ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) is now responsible for. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions as being those of ReAssure. 
What happened
Mr W had an AFPS with his former employer. In 1993, on the advice of ReAssure, he 
transferred the non-protected rights element of his AFPS into his existing PP and the 
protected rights element into a new PP. 
In 1994, the regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
carried out between 1988 and 1994, known as the Pensions Review. ReAssure invited     
Mr W to have a Pension Review as part of this and calculated that he hadnt been caused a 
financial loss. 
In 2021, Mr W complained to ReAssure that its advice in 1993 was unsuitable. He said hes 
reaching an age where his AFPS wouldve been of benefit, as it would have provided a 
secure pension and a spouses pension if he died. 
In response, ReAssure said it reviewed this in 1998 and considered Mr Ws complaint about 
its 1993 advice and would have written to him explaining no financial loss was identified. It 
also said its review calculations were completed in line with the Regulators requirements. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W referred the complaint to our Service, adding that his PPs wont 
match the benefits he would have received from his AFPS upon retirement. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. She said 
ReAssures review accepted its 1993 advice wasnt suitable, but found this hadnt caused  
Mr W any financial loss. She said the evidence supports that ReAssure carried out the 1998 
Pension Review in line with the Regulators guidance at that time. And that, as the Pension 
Review was intended to be a one-off exercise, ReAssure isnt required to look at things 
again for Mr W.
Mr W asked for an Ombudsmans decision, adding that ReAssure should carry out a review 
based on when hes due to start collecting his pension, rather than focusing on what it has 
previously done. He said it wasnt made clear at the time of the advice that the future value 
of his PP was unlikely to match the secure income he was giving up and he feels hes a 
victim of past standards.
So, Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W complains that ReAssures 1993 advice was unsuitable. But I think ReAssure 
essentially accepted in 1998 that the 1993 advice given to Mr W might have been 
unsuitable, as it looked at whether this caused him a financial loss. So I dont think theres a 
need for me to consider whether the 1993 advice was unsuitable.
I recognise Mr W has said his PPs wont match the AFPS benefits and that he feels hes 
been a victim of past standards, so hed like a review based on when hes due to collect his 
pension. But I think its important to note that under the industry wide Pensions Review, 
established by the then Regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review 
once, using the standards and assumptions it told them to use at the time. This is because 
the assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess 
future loss.
While ReAssure hasnt been able give us with a copy of its review calculations for Mr W, it 
has provided documents from the time which say his PPs had been reviewed in accordance 
with the Regulators guidelines and conclude that no loss had resulted from the transfer. And 
Pension Review calculations were subject to supervision and sampling at the time by the 
Regulator. So, I think its likely Mr Ws review was carried out in line with guidelines issued 
the Regulator. 
I appreciate the position Mr Ws in as, unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth 
rates used in the calculations didnt materialise. This, combined with annuity rates falling, 
has had an impact on the benefits provided by PPs. But that alone isnt a reason to carry out 
a further Pension Review and recalculate whether compensation is due to him. The Pension 
Review was intended to be a one-off exercise. The Regulator intended that the review would 
draw a line under any pension mis-selling and would put things right at the time. And, once a 
business carried out a Pension Review for a customer, as in Mr Ws case, they werent 
required to review it again. 
For these reasons, while I realise this isnt the answer Mr W hoped for, Im not asking 
ReAssure to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman