DRN-2550701
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him wrong information regarding the 
withdrawal and replacement of money in his ISA.
What happened
Mr S contacted HSBC about withdrawing money from his Loyalty Cash Individual Savings 
Account (Loyalty ISA) with them. He said that HMRC had changed the tax rules. This meant 
that he could withdraw money and replace it into his account within the same tax year 
without losing any of the tax benefits.
Each time he contacted HSBC, he was told that he couldnt do this with his Loyalty ISA. 
They said he could only deposit funds in any one tax year up to his annual ISA limit.
Mr S said that he contacted HSBC about this several times, by email and telephone. Each 
time he was told the same thing. But during a call in December 2019, he was told that this 
benefit was only available with a Flexible ISA. HSBC said they didnt offer Flexible ISAs so 
this wouldnt apply to his account. 
Mr S asked if it was possible to transfer the contents of his Loyalty ISA to a Flexible ISA with 
another provider. HSBC confirmed that he could, and that the new provider would be able to 
arrange this on his behalf.
Mr S was unhappy as he thought that the information provided by HSBC previously had 
been wrong. He said this delayed him transferring his ISA funds. So, he raised a complaint 
with HSBC seeking compensation for being given the wrong information.
HSBC replied to Mr Ss complaint. They said that they didnt offer a Flexible ISA. They said 
that if he made a withdrawal, he would lose the associated tax benefits. They didnt agree 
that theyd done anything wrong here, so no compensation was offered.
Mr S was unhappy with what they decided. So, he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint. They also didnt 
think that HSBC needed to do anything more here. So, Mr S asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have confirmed that Mr S opened his Loyalty ISA with them in March 2014. The 
Flexible ISA was introduced in the UK on 6 April 2016. This was a new type of ISA that 
allows the account holder to withdraw and redeposit funds within the same tax year without 
losing the tax benefits. Mr Ss Loyalty ISA pre dated this change so it wasnt a Flexible ISA.
HSBC have confirmed that they dont offer a Flexible ISA as part of their product range. 
They told Mr S about this during a call with him on 8 December 2019. I have listened to a 
recording of this call. HSBC also said that there were very few banks that offer Flexible ISAs.
 
Mr S asked HSBC if he could transfer his ISA funds to a Flexible ISA with another bank. 
HSBC said that he could. They also said that the new provider would complete an ISA 
transfer form with Mr S and arrange the transfer. That seems like fair advice to give here, 
where HSBC cant offer the service or product Mr S wants.
Mr S raised his complaint as he believed that HSBC had given him wrong information on 
other occasions. I havent seen copies of any emails. But I have listened to another call 
between Mr S and HSBC from December 2019.
 
HSBC confirmed to Mr S that he couldnt withdraw money from his Loyalty ISA and redeposit 
it in the same tax year without losing the tax benefit. In relation to HSBC ISAs, this 
information is correct. I also understand that Mr S was given the same message in other 
communications. I would only expect representatives of HSBC to provide information and 
advice about HSBC products. I wouldnt reasonably expect them to have detailed knowledge 
or provide information about products offered by other banks. So, although I can understand 
Mr Ss frustration here, I dont believe that HSBC did anything wrong.
Mr S is unhappy that HSBC hasnt provided recordings of other calls between them. I 
understand that HSBC may record their calls. But theyre not required to do so. Its not 
unusual for there not to be a recording available. So, I cant insist recordings are provided. 
Instead, Ive considered the evidence that is available, and I have taken on board Mr Ss 
comments about what he says he was told. But even after doing so, I cant conclude that 
HSBC has acted unfairly here.
Mr S believes that he shouldve been told sooner that he could transfer his money to a 
Flexible ISA with another bank. He said that this meant that he delayed transferring his 
money to a provider who did offer a Flexible ISA. I think my earlier comments remain 
relevant. I dont believe it is HSBCs role to provide information or advice in relation to 
products and services offered by another bank.
 
While the person Mr S spoke to in the December call told him about the Flexible ISA, I dont 
think that means HSBC were under an obligation to do so sooner than that. Nor do I think 
they wrongly advised him by not doing so. I think the person who told him this did so to be 
helpful and it happened to be what Mr S needed to know. But what I would expect to see is 
that HSBC advised Mr S, as their customer, to the best of their ability about what they could 
and couldnt help him with. Im satisfied they did.
 
I would expect HSBC to have knowledge and information about all the products that they 
offer. This would ensure that they could keep their customer informed about products and 
services that are relevant to them.
 
Although I understand that Mr S will be disappointed by my decision, in this case I dont 
agree that HSBC have done anything wrong. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about HSBC Bank UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman