DRN-2395301
The complaint
Mrs L complains about blocks Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) placed on childrens accounts she 
managed .And that Lloyds added another relative as a named adult to the accounts without 
her knowledge or consent.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mrs Ls original complaint  was that two childrens accounts had been blocked as an 
automatic transfer to  new accounts failed.  She accepted  £200 compensation for 
the inconvenience and expense caused. I think that was a fair resolution by Lloyds. 
Mrs L has told us this particular matter is now resolved so I wont go into it here.
Mrs Ls main complaint is that  when she went into a branch to close the accounts, 
Lloyds told her she wasnt the named adult on the account , another relative was. I 
appreciate this would have caused concern. The accounts had sizeable deposits in 
them that someone else could have accessed. And this was a possible data breach 
Lloyds has explained it wrongly told Mrs L  in branch that she wasnt the named 
account holder, she was, but so was another relative. Lloyds has suggested this 
could have happened if the other adult had previously opened a savings account for 
the children. But as it has no record of this happening  this seems unlikely to me
I think a more likely explanation is a bank error. I can understand Mrs Ls concern, 
but no data breach has occurred as the other adult hasnt been given any information 
about the accounts. And Lloyds has explained that childrens accounts are now 
opened in the controlling adults name so this mistake shouldnt  happen again.
Lloyds offered Mrs L £100 compensation with regard to  this second mistake which 
Mrs L declined. I think Lloyds offer was reasonable as it took some time for Mrs L to 
sort out the childrens accounts when she went into the branch. As the situation has 
now been resolved I dont feel there is anything further I can reasonably ask Lloyds 
to do. 
I appreciate Mrs L felt strongly that the £100 Lloyds offered wasnt appropriate so I 
will leave it to her to decide if she wishes to take up this offer or not.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman