DRN-3249761
The complaint
Mr G says Aviva Insurance Limited mis-handled a claim he made on his car insurance 
policy.
All references in this decision to Aviva include its appointed agents.  
What happened
To summarise, in January 2020 Mr G was driving when he was involved in an incident that 
caused injury to him and damage to his car. He made a claim with Aviva on his policy. Mr G 
became unhappy with how Aviva had handled the claim and complained.
In response, Aviva issued several response letters to Mr G, most significantly one in 
December 2020. In that letter, Aviva recognised that it had let him down at several points in 
the claims process not least because the claim was still ongoing at that point  almost a year 
after the incident had occurred. As compensation for the impact of those errors on him, 
Aviva offered to pay £800 in total.
Unhappy with Avivas offer, Mr G brought his complaint to us. Essentially, he felt hed been 
treated poorly throughout the customer journey due to delays and a lack of communication. 
Mr G told us he was incorrectly told he couldnt take his car to a garage of his choosing for 
the repairs it needed, only to be told once the repairs were underway at a different garage 
that he could have gone to a garage of his own choosing all along. He also felt Aviva hadnt 
properly supported him with his related personal injury claim.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
They felt that, while Aviva had handled some aspects of the claim poorly and caused delay, 
its offer of compensation was fair in the circumstances. They didnt think Aviva needed to 
pay Mr G any more than that.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators findings, believing they hadnt looked into his 
complaint in enough detail. He said it wasnt helpful that his complaints against Aviva and his 
motor legal protection insurer  not Aviva  were being considered separately. He felt Aviva 
hadnt treated him well throughout his claim and had communicated with him appallingly. 
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh. 
I considered the complaint and issued my provisional decision last month. In it, I explained 
why I intended to uphold the complaint in part. I believed Aviva should pay Mr G £1,200 as 
compensation instead of the £800 it had offered, plus the £150 it had already offered him in 
respect of an accepted data protection breach.
I gave the parties the chance to respond before I reconsidered the complaint. Mr G said he 
was satisfied with the provisional outcome.  
Aviva didnt dispute the decision but added that there seemed little merit in challenging my 
provisional award as it was not based on any formula or strict calculation method.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, let me make clear that I dont underestimate the impact of the incident of January 
2020 on Mr G, either in terms of his health or his life in general. But whatever the actions of 
Aviva following the incident  and Ill go on to address those later  its important for me to 
bear in mind that it wasnt responsible for the incident itself. 
Nor is Aviva responsible for dealing with or pursuing Mr Gs related personal injury claim. 
That falls within the scope of a separate insurance policy he held that isnt underwritten by 
Aviva and is being considered by us as a separate complaint. Instead, in this decision, Ive 
focussed on the actions of Aviva who became involved following the incident as the 
underwriter of Mr Gs car insurance policy.
Secondly, Id emphasise that Ive carefully considered everything Mr Gs told us and sent us 
in relation to both of his complaints to ensure I have a full understanding of the issues 
involved. As he says, the complaint isnt straightforward, and hes provided detailed 
submissions. But that doesnt mean Ill be addressing every issue hes raised in this 
decision. This service aims to deal with disputes quickly and informally. In line with that 
approach, I think its appropriate for me to cover only the issues that I believe go to the heart 
of Mr Gs complaint about Aviva. 
Having explained that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. In setting out why Ive 
done that I think its helpful, given the amount of activity regarding the claim, to group the key 
issues as I see them together under appropriate headings. Ill consider them in turn.
The repair of Mr Gs car and level of customer service provided
Its clear that this aspects been very poorly handled by Aviva. At the very start of the claim, 
Aviva incorrectly advised Mr G that there was an additional excess to pay if he wanted to 
have his car repaired by a non-Aviva approved repairer. As a result, Mr G understandably 
chose to have the repairs done at an Aviva-approved repairer. 
The problems continued because the repairer instructed by Aviva, and which Mr G had 
already made clear he didnt want to use, didnt carry out work to a satisfactory standard. I 
appreciate that, for example, finding pieces of broken glass in the cabin and boot of his car 
was upsetting and inconvenient. 
Collection of the car from the repairer was delayed as a result, by around a week. Mr G had 
to chase Aviva for his car to be inspected as agreed and went through a period of not 
receiving responses, being sent late response or not being responded to at all.   
This was all occurring while Mr G was trying to deal with the physical and mental impact of 
the incident itself and trying to progress his claim against the third-party he believed was 
responsible for it. In all, it took Aviva around ten months to allow Mr G to take his car to his 
chosen repairer, not to mention a great deal of effort on Mr Gs part. 
Avivas apologised to Mr G for the mistakes its made. Its also made several offers of 
compensation to Mr G for these issues. Avivas most recent offer of £500 isnt, I believe, fair in the circumstances given the period 
over which these events occurred and their likely impact on Mr G at what was already a very 
difficult time for him. Instead, I think Aviva should pay him £700  including the £500 
previously offered  for this aspect of his complaint.
Avivas handling of Mr Gs witness and the effects on the recovery claim
Due to the evidence received by Aviva by late March 2020, it decided that the incident had 
been caused by natural disaster and that no recovery was possible. But, when Mr G first 
claimed, he made Aviva aware there was a witness whod contacted the third-party Mr G 
believes is responsible for the incident before it had occurred. Aviva says it wasnt provided 
with the witness contact details until late April 2020 and that, when it contacted the witness, 
they didnt respond with the required information until early July. 
This might suggest that the delay in contacting the witness and obtaining their statement 
was almost entirely beyond Avivas control. But it seems Mr G first sent Aviva the witness 
contact details in January 2020. I say that because an email from Mr G at the time referred 
to photos taken by the witness attached as supporting evidence. In among the photos was 
an email from the witness to Mr G including the witness full name, mobile phone number, 
employers name, landline number and fax number. So, it looks as though Aviva was given 
the witness contact details three months before it says it was.
I appreciate that it took some time for the witness to reply to Aviva by July 2020 and that not 
all of this delay was down to Aviva. But on balance I think it likely the witness would have 
replied much sooner had Aviva contacted them at the first opportunity.
I also think it likely that Aviva wouldnt have tried to close the recovery claim  which Im 
satisfied caused Mr G more distress and inconvenience  at the end of March 2020 had it 
got in touch with the witness earlier to obtain a statement.  
Aviva then apologised to Mr G for sending the witness a witness statement to complete 
rather than simply asking for a statement. After all, the witness didnt see the incident itself 
but was at the location before and after the incident and held information about the 
surrounding circumstances. 
As things stood, Aviva says it wasnt in a position to appoint solicitors to take on the recovery 
claim against the third-party until May 2020. Thats because it was unsure until that time 
whether it was going to be able to obtain a statement from Mr Gs witness. But, had Aviva 
contacted the witness as soon as it could have (for the reasons Ive given), I think its likely it 
would have been able to appoint the solicitors much sooner than it did  perhaps by several 
weeks or even by months. 
Thats not to say that all of the delays occurring relating to the recovery claim were avoidable 
or were Avivas fault. Clearly, the claim itself is a complex one and no doubt would have 
taken some time to progress in any case due to the nature of the enquiries that needed to be 
made, and so on. But the point is that I think Aviva could and should have got the ball rolling 
on this sooner than it did and been more proactive in managing its progress. 
Overall, I believe Avivas handling of the witness Mr G provided was poor and fell short of 
the standards that could reasonably be expected of it. As I say, I think all this added to 
Mr Gs worry and caused him unnecessary trouble and likely delayed other key parts of his 
claim. 
For these aspects, Avivas offered to pay Mr G a total of £300. But I believe it would be fair 
for Aviva to pay him £500, including the £300 previously offered.  Data protection breach
Mr Gs unhappy that he received personal details relating to another of Avivas customers in 
its response to his data access request. He believes this to be indicative of its generally poor 
levels of customer service.   
I understand why Mr G feels as he does. And its certainly the case that this was another in a 
series of errors Aviva made in handling his claim. 
In response, it seems Aviva quickly apologised for the breach, set out how it believed the 
error occurred and explained what it had done to ensure there were no recurrences. It also 
offered to pay Mr G £150 as compensation for the upset and inconvenience its mistake had 
caused him. 
In the circumstances, I believe Aviva responded appropriately and that its offer of 
compensation in this regard was fair.   
Avivas actions, and any effects, regarding the personal injury claim
As Ive explained, Mr Gs personal injury claims being handled by another insurer thats 
unrelated to Aviva. That claims the subject of a separate complaint that Mr Gs brought to 
us. So, its not for me to comment in any detail on that claim, or that insurers handling of it, 
in this decision. 
Summary
Having impartially reviewed the evidence, including all the detailed and helpful submissions, 
I believe my recommendation represents fair compensation in the circumstances.
I recognise that Aviva may well consider these amounts to be higher than is warranted. But 
Id remind it that Mr G suffered a traumatic experience in January 2020. While that wasnt 
Avivas fault, the service its provided to him in the aftermath of that experience did little to 
allow him to move on from it as quickly as he might otherwise have and perhaps even 
aggravated matters for him.
In its response to my provisional decision, Aviva points out that Ive arrived at these amounts 
with no formula or strict calculation method and that this makes them difficult to challenge. 
But it will be aware that our published approach is to take account of all the circumstances of 
each case, meaning there isnt a one size fits all formula for calculating overall impact. 
Nevertheless, Ive tried to make my reasoning clear by breaking down the award into 
different elements.
In any event, I cant see that Aviva itself relied on a formula or any particular method in 
arriving at the offers it made. I think its right that the focus should instead be on the impact 
of any actions on the consumer  and thats the approach Ive followed here.  
Putting things right
I require Aviva to pay Mr G £1,200 in total as compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience the actions Ive focussed on have caused him. That amount includes the 
sums Avivas already paid, or offered to pay, him. Aviva should also pay him £150 in respect 
of its data protection breach as per its previous offer if it hasnt already done so.  
My final decisionFor the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to put things right for Mr G as explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman