DRN-4324894
The complaint
Mr H complains that Rational Foreign Exchange Limited trading as RationalFX (Rational) 
closed a forward contract.
What happened
On 5 December 2021, Mr H arranged a forward contract with Rational. It had an expiry of 5 
December 2023 and was to use Euro 519,613 to buy USD574,121 at a rate of 1.1048. Mr H 
paid a deposit of Euro 51,961.
In June 2022, Mr H discussed the forward contract and his currency strategies with Rational. 
Rational cancelled the contract on 2 August 2022.
Mr H contacted Rational in October 2022 and asked to use the forward contract. He was 
then told it had been cancelled.
Mr H complained. He said he didnt agree that the forward contract be cancelled. He said 
that even though there were some discussions with Rational in June 2022, and they agreed 
to provide a discount on his currency trading going forward, he didnt want them to cancel 
the forward contract. He said hed lost Euro79,164 as a result.
Rational said that in the conversations with Mr H, he discussed closing out the forward 
contract  and he said he would be doing some currency transactions in the future. On 10 
October 2022, Mr H agreed there had been a misunderstanding and they provided an 
amicable solution  which was to lower their fees to 0.5%. Mr H accepted those terms and 
made a currency deal the same day. Rational refunded Mr Hs deposit of Euro 51,961. So  
Rational said Mr H didnt suffer any losses.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Rational couldve been clearer in 
their communications  that the forward contract was to be cancelled. For that he proposed 
a compensation payment of £200. He said that Rational acted reasonably in cancelling the 
forward contract  given that Mr H discussed other options and intentions.
Mr H didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint, and so it has come 
to me to make a final decision. (continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is the discussions that took place in June 2022, and I reviewed the 
emails between Mr H and Rational.
After Mr H called Rational on 15 June 2022, Rational sent him an email which said I am 
following up after our conversation yesterday and your wish to make payments without 
converting the currency.
I also got the backing from my finance department to make these transactions to your 
account, with reduced fees at 1% instead of the standard 2%. We can therefore cancel the 
term contract you dont want and transfer the money in euros directly, rather than dollars like 
initially planned.
I consider this email says that Mr H had advised Rational that he intended to use his euros 
to make payments  without converting to USD, and therefore to not use the forward 
contract. And if he was to do that (make payments with euros), then the forward contract 
would be cancelled. And Rational agreed to reduce fees for those payments to 1% (later 
reduced to 0.5%).
On 16 June 2022, Mr H then replied Thank you for your gesture, I readily acknowledge that 
you have made efforts about me. We agree that the 1% will apply to all future transactions in 
the same currency?. So here  Mr H didnt say to either cancel the contract or continue with 
it.
Mr H then later said (on 6 October 2022  after he found the forward contract had been 
closed) I believe there was a misunderstanding. I was hoping for a 1% rate on funds on 
future operations and funds that I have with you, but not on the forward contract. I plan to 
send several million euros to you in the coming weeks. It was with this in mind that I 
formulated my request for the 1%. There has been a misunderstanding!
Rational replied: Sincerely sorry if that was not your intention. The problem being that 
unfortunately now the forward contract has been cancelled. Can we make an appointment to 
talk about it and find a solution next Monday?
Rational then agreed to reduce their fees to 0.5% for all future transactions. Mr H then made 
a transaction on 10 October 2022  at the reduced fee of 0.5%.
Rational believed theyd reached an amicable solution. They accepted there had been a 
misunderstanding and agreed to reduce fees for Mr H going forward. 
There are two sides to this story  I can see how Rational interpreted the call and email on 
15-16 June 2022. And therefore - Rational cancelled the forward contract. But equally, Mr H 
didnt confirm to Rational one way or the other. His email dated 16 June 2022  didnt say to 
either maintain the contract or cancel it. 
Mr H argues that Rational profited by closing out the forward contract and therefore  that 
was their motive. But I dont see it like that  there does seem to have been a genuine 
misunderstanding, as both Mr H and Rational have said. So in those circumstances, I dont 
think its fair that Rational should be asked to pay for the losses that Mr H claims.
But  I do agree that Rationals communications couldve been clearer in June 2022  I think 
its reasonable that they shouldve sent a clear email to Mr H to say the contract would be 
cancelled - and therefore they should pay the recommended compensation of £200.
And  importantly, Rational offered Mr H the same forward contract on 24 April 2023  they 
emailed Mr H to say You recently expressed the will to benefit from a EUR/USD rate of 
1.1049 to buy dollars, in the same way as your previous forward contract. In view of market 
conditions, we can currently offer you this exchange rate. We remind you that we have 
already returned to you the deposit of your previous forward contract. Please let us know 
your position as soon as possible.  Rational advised us that Mr H hasnt taken advantage of this offer. But it seems a very fair 
offer to me. But given the passage of time, and changing market conditions, I doubt the offer 
will still be available. But if Mr H wishes to see what Rational can now provide  he should 
contact them.
Putting things right
Rational should pay compensation of £200.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Rational Foreign Exchange Limited  trading as RationalFX must:
Pay £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman