DRN-3976181
The complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money did not make clear that it 
charged a penalty for making an account withdrawal.
What happened
Mr K says he opened a Virgin Money account online in around August 2022, but he wasnt 
given the account terms and conditions. He says he asked Virgin Money for them, but he 
was given them after the account cooling off period had ended. Mr K says he was unaware 
that Virgin Money charged a penalty for an account withdrawal before account maturity.  And 
says if he knew that, then would not have opened the account. He would like to withdraw the 
money without penalty.
Virgin Money says Mr K applied online for the account and in doing so would have agreed to 
the account terms and conditions which make clear there is a charge for withdrawing money 
before the account maturity. It says that information is made clear during the account 
opening process. Virgin Money has apologised for the delay in sending Mr K a copy of the 
terms and conditions when he requested them and has offered £75 compensation for that 
delay.
Mr K had brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Virgin Money made clear there was a charge or penalty and that Mr K agreed to the 
account terms and conditions.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and in summary questions if Virgin Money have changed their 
online application screens. He says the penalty amounts to over £265 and he should be 
given that amount in compensation. Mr K says he didnt notice the terms and conditions or 
any reference about the charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at the online process as well as terms and conditions Mr K would 
have seen and agreed to when he applied online for the Virgin Money account.
Im satisfied that Virgin Money made clear in a prominent screen that if money is withdrawn 
within a year, then a charge is made. I can also see that account applicants are then faced 
with a further screen with a summary box which contains further information about the 
charge. Finally, I can see that applicants must agree to the terms and conditions and are 
given the option of reading all of the information again.
So, I think Virgin Money made it clear there was a charge or penalty for a withdrawal before 
account maturity. I also think that information was repeated and was prominently displayed 
throughout the online process. As it is part of agreed account terms and conditions then it 
follows that I cant fairly direct Virgin Money to either not apply it or pay Mr K compensation 
in that amount. I would have expected Mr K to have noticed the clear reference to the charge 
before he applied for the account and then reviewed the documents before agreeing to it. I 
dont think it clear why Mr K didnt download or save the terms and conditions before 
agreeing to them.
I appreciate Mr K says he may not have noticed the reference to the charge but that is not 
something I can fairly hold Virgin Money responsible for. I have made clear that Im satisfied 
there are a number of clear references to the charge throughout the online application 
process. And I dont think its unusual for this type of charge to be made. I have not seen any 
evidence that the online process has changed and think it unlikely that material changes 
would have been made.
There is no dispute that Virgin Money didnt provide Mr K with a written copy of the account 
terms and conditions when he asked for a paper copy. I can see that Virgin Money has fairly 
apologised for that mistake and offered what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation of 
£75. I accept this is not the main part of the complaint and dont think that delay had any 
material impact on the main part of this complaint which is the lack of information about the 
charge before Mr K applied for the account. I dont think the delay had any financial impact 
on Mr K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money has made an offer of £75 compensation for the delay which I 
consider is fair and reasonable and so my decision is that it should now pay that amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman