DRN-3018692
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Itc Compliance Limited (Itc) mis-sold a finance shortfall 
insurance (FSI) policy.
In dealing with this complaint Mr Ws been helped by his son. But, except for where its 
not appropriate to do so, for ease of reading, Ill refer to his sons comments as being 
Mr Ws.
Reference to Itc includes its agents.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr W acquired a car on finance. At the same time Itc sold him an FSI 
policy. Policies of this type are generally referred to as guaranteed asset protection 
(GAP) policies. So, except for where its not appropriate to do so, I'll refer to the cover as 
a GAP policy throughout this decision. The sale was completed in two stages. Itc initially 
recommended the policy on 13 September 2016 when Mr W ordered the car. It then 
completed the sale on 21 September 2016 when Mr W went ahead with the finance deal 
for the car.
In 2021 Mr W complained that Itc mis-sold the policy. He brought his complaint about 
that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think there was evidence Itc 
had mis-sold the policy. Mr W didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ws raised a number of points. I've considered everything he's 
said and everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each and 
every point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of 
Mr Ws complaint. 
It appears Mr W was aware that Itc had sold him the policy as he said he received the policy 
documents. But he said Itc told him he needed the policy and that it was sold as a 
package. Mr W said he became aware recently, after reading articles in the press and 
online, that the policy might have been mis-sold. He said Itc didn't tell him it would add the 
premium to his finance agreement so he paid interest on it. 
Itc sold the policy on whats known as an advised basis. That means that it recommended 
the policy to Mr W. So it had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr Ws needs. In 
order to find out if the policy was suitable for Mr W, Itc completed whats known as a 
demands and needs document. That is it asked Mr W a series of questions to find out what 
policies might be suitable for him. Itc recorded the questions it asked and Mr Ws answers on 
a document called demands and needs. That document shows that Itc told Mr W what the 
benefits of the products were, that the policy was optional, so he didn't have to buy it, and 
that he could buy a similar policy from other providers.
Mr W said that Itc didn't ever give him a copy of that. But Itc said it emailed it to Mr Ws son 
(which was the email address Mr W had provided). And its not clear if Mr W ever read it. But 
I don't think that means Itc didn't run through the questions on the demands and needs 
document or that the policy wasn't suitable for Mr W.
It might help if I explain that where a cars acquired on finance then the finance agreement 
will involve the purchaser also paying interest and charges for that finance. And the car will 
lose value over time and as it adds mileage. So, if the car was deemed a total loss or stolen 
then the comprehensive motor insurer would only pay the cars market value at the time of 
the loss. And because of the cars loss of value over time, the motor insurers settlement 
may well be below the amount outstanding on the finance. It will almost certainly be lower 
than the original invoice price for the car. It follows that, if Mr W found himself in that 
position, he would have to continue to pay the finance company the balance leftover after 
the motor insurer had paid the market value of the car. And in those circumstances Mr W 
could find himself having to continue to pay finance for a car he no longer has.
The benefits of Mr Ws GAP policy are that, if his car was deemed a total loss or stolen, the 
GAP policy would not only clear any outstanding finance, but - in the policys first three years 
- would also pay Mr W any difference between the finance outstanding on the car and its 
original invoice price. So, if he needed to claim from it, the GAP policy clearly could be of 
benefit to him. It follows that I think the policy was suitable for his needs and it was 
reasonable for Itc to recommend it to him.
Mr W said the policy was sold as a package. By that I believe he means Itc told him he 
must have the GAP policy in order to secure the finance. But I don't believe thats the case. 
The GAP policy is referred to in various documents connected with the cars sale including: 
the vehicle order form, the invoice; the finance agreement, and the schedule of service. And 
on the last document (the schedule of service) Mr W has ticked a box to say that he wanted 
the FSI policy and signed to agree that was the case. 
I've noted that the vehicle order form was actually signed by Mr Ws son, rather than Mr W 
himself. As it was Mr W who was actually buying the car and arranging the finance on it, 
then this document should have been signed by Mr W himself. But Mr Ws son has 
represented him in bringing this complaint and hes said that its him (rather than his dad) 
who actually uses the car. So I don't think the fact that it was Mr Ws son who signed the 
order form means that the GAP policy was mis-sold.
Further, Mr W has acknowledged that he received some of the policy papers Itc gave to him. 
And those say that, if he didn't want the policy, then he had a 30 day cooling off period in 
which to cancel it without penalty. So, if he didn't want it, he didn't need to continue paying 
for it. So it's not the case that he had to have the GAP policy in order to secure the finance 
on the car. It follows that I don't think Itc told Mr W that he had to take the policy, when he 
could have left the car dealership and then cancelled it himself. 
Mr W also said that Itc didn't tell him that he'd be paying interest on the policy. But there's 
clear reference in the documents I've referred to above to the cost of the premium (£399), 
the cost of each repayment (£7.24), the total cost of the credit (£24.86) and the total cost of 
those repayments (£423.86). And Mr Ws signed to say he understood that he was buying 
the policy on credit. Mr Ws suggested to our investigator that Itc have somehow doctored or forged the 
documents. But I find that most unlikely. I should say that forging documents would, I think, 
be considered a criminal offence. And its not my role to decide if such a crime has been 
committed. That would be a matter for police or law enforcement agencies. But, at the time 
Mr W bought the car, finance agreements of this type would have required Mr Ws signature 
and he would have had a copy of the relevant documents. So, if Itc had amended the 
documents then he should have had a copy of the original, unamended version, to provide 
by way of comparison. But I note Mr W hasn't provided any such supporting information to 
show the documents have been amended. And as the documents Mr W signed clearly set 
out the details of how he would pay for the policy, I think Itc did make it clear that the GAP 
premium was being added to the finance agreement. 
So, having considered Mr Ws complaint very carefully I'm not persuaded that Itc mis-sold 
the GAP policy. And I'm not going to ask it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman