DRN-4365986
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed crediting its account 
with a returned US dollar payment.
S is represented in this complaint by one of its directors  Mr H. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
everything in detail here. 
In summary, S authorised a large US dollar payment on 3 April 2023 from its account with 
Barclays. The payment was returned by the beneficiary bank as the payment details didnt 
match its records. There was then a delay  around 7 weeks, for the payment to be credited 
back to S account. In the interim, Mr H was regularly contacting Barclays chasing the return 
of the payment and was given inconsistent information. Mr H subsequently raised a 
complaint about the delay and Barclays poor customer service.
  
Barclays says that when the beneficiary bank returned the funds it didnt provide details of 
the original payment so it couldnt identify where the funds should be credited. So, it sent the 
payment back to the beneficiary bank. Barclays says it subsequently contacted the 
beneficiary bank numerous times about the return of the payment but didnt get a response 
until 12 May 2023. And, as soon as the payment was returned to it, S account was credited. 
While Barclays acknowledged Mr Hs frustration it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it. She didnt think that Barclays was responsible for the delay in the funds being 
returned to S. But she did think Barclays could have explained what was happening better 
than it did. She recommended that Barclays should pay S £150 compensation to recognise 
the inconvenience caused due to the lack of customer service.
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation. But Mr H said that the compensation 
payment recommended didnt fully recognise the time spent on this matter. He said hed 
spent around 20 hours over many weeks chasing the return of the payment and that S 
standard hourly rate is £190. He considered this to be a financial loss and thought 
compensation of nearer £10,000 was more appropriate. As agreement couldnt be reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Its not in dispute that the beneficiary bank returned the payment to Barclays. Barclays says 
the funds were sent back to the beneficiary because the payment was returned to it in a 
different way to how the payment was sent which is contrary to normal circumstances. And 
that the returned payment didnt include details of the original payment, so it was unable to 
apply it to the right account.
On balance, I dont find that Barclays did anything wrong here. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Barclays acted incorrectly returning the payment that had been sent back to it 
using the wrong process and didnt include the original payment details. 
 
But I can see that following this it took a long time for the payment to be credited back to S 
account. So, Ive thought carefully about what happened during the delay. Barclays has 
provided a full list of the messages it sent via SWIFT  the banking system used by 
businesses to securely send information about payments. And Im satisfied that Barclays 
contacted the beneficiary bank numerous times to trace the payment and to ask for it to be 
returned with the correct details and that a full response wasnt received until mid-May 2023. 
Overall, Im persuaded that Barclays did enough to try and get the payment returned to S as 
soon as possible. So, I dont find that Barclays was responsible for the delay.
   
Ive seen that Mr H has suggested that Barclays should change its process to avoid similar 
situations for other account holders. But as the investigator explained, thats not the role of 
this service. We dont have the power to punish a business or tell it to change its processes. 
Rather we look at each individual complaint and, if something went wrong, we award 
compensation in recognition the impact the error had. But we don't compensate for the 
impact of events that were outside of the business's control, or for the effects of a third 
party's action.
  
But like the investigator I agree that Barclays customer service could have been better than 
it was. Mr H has said he spent 20 hours dealing with this matter and the hourly rate S 
charges is £190. But I dont consider this to be a direct financial loss as we dont award 
compensation based on a persons or a companys hourly rate. Furthermore, S is the eligible 
complainant here - not Mr H. And, as the investigator has explained, we cant make an 
award compensation to Mr H for the distress this matter has caused. But we can award 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to S. 
Barclays has accepted that the customer service it provided to S while the payment was 
being chased with the beneficiary bank wasnt at the level it should have been. The 
investigator recommended compensation of £150. I consider this to be fair and reasonable in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused to S because of Mr H (on behalf of S) having to 
spend time chasing the payment and the inconsistent information he was provided with.
 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay S £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman