DRN-3989929
The complaint
Mr H complains that Starling Bank Limited withheld funds and registered information about 
him with the UKs fraud database CIFAS.
What happened
Mr H had an account with Starling. In October 2020, Mr H received a payment from a third 
party. In November 2020 Mr H received a further payment of £1,000 from another third party. 
The reference for the first payment was the name of the payer. The reference for the second 
payment was car parts.
But Starling received reports that these payments were fraudulent. So it blocked Mr Hs 
account and asked him for further information about the first payment. 
Mr H told Starling he was selling car parts. He says he had sold some car doors, and sent 
Starling what he said was a contemporaneous note confirming the sale of the doors and 
fittings in return for £1,000 by bank transfer.
Starling completed its review in November 2020, and returned both payments to the payers. 
Mr H then contacted Starling again. He claimed hed confused the payment  and that now 
hed properly looked into things he realised the payments related to cryptocurrency 
transactions. He says hed bought cryptocurrency on one exchange and sold it on another. 
Hes told us he was earning money by buying and selling a stable coin pegged to the US 
dollar at a margin of 5%-11%.
He sent Starling screenshots in connection with these transactions. In February 2021, Mr H 
said hed had difficulty applying for a mortgage. In March 2021, Mr H said that another bank 
had investigated other transactions that had been reported as fraudulent and agreed to 
remove adverse information it had registered with CIFAS. In May 2021, Starling registered 
its own information with CIFAS. Around this time, Mr H tried to apply for a further mortgage. 
He was told the application had failed because of adverse information recorded against him. 
Mr H thinks Starling has treated him unfairly.
Our investigator initially looked at this. He thought Starling should pay Mr H the funds back, 
plus compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused. Starling agreed to the 
recommendation. Mr H did not. The complaint was referred to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 20 April 2023. I concluded that based 
on what Id seen, Mr H had given incorrect information to Starling. As such, it hadnt acted 
unfairly in returning the funds to the sender. And while I thought that Starling should now 
remove the information it had registered with CIFAS, I didnt accept it was fair to make 
Starling pay Mr H further compensation given what had happened ultimately stemmed from 
his failure to give Starling accurate information.
I said Id consider any further information I received by 17 May 2023.
Mr H doesnt agree with my conclusions. He doesnt think its fair that he loses all the money. 
He says he has himself been the victim of fraud here  and that unless he was personally 
involved in fraud, he should get the money back. He says hes now at risk of losing his 
home, and asks when the marker will be removed.
Starling hasnt said anything further.
Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Financial businesses, like Starling, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These includes having processes in place to combat financial crime. 
Where Starling receives a report about a payment into an account, it may need to 
investigate the payment  and may need to block the account until it is satisfied.
The terms and conditions that applied to Mr Hs account allowed it to return 
payments to the account that sent them in in certain circumstances. This included 
where there was a dispute about a payment and Mr H wasnt able to provide Starling 
in good time with satisfactory evidence of why the payment was not made in error.
Here Starling received a report about a payment into Mr Hs account. But when 
Starling asked Mr H about this, Mr H said the payment was for car parts. He provided 
a written receipt for the goods. It was only after Starling had returned the funds to the 
sender that Mr H explained it in fact related to a cryptocurrency transaction.
Weve asked Mr H about this. He says he was new to cryptocurrency trading and 
was told that he shouldnt include references to cryptocurrency in his transactions 
because this might lead to the payments being stopped by his bank.
With this in mind, I dont accept Starling acted unfairly when it returned the 
payments to source. It had received reports that payments into Mr Hs account were 
the result of fraud, and Mr H gave Starling information about the account that he 
accepts wasnt correct. 
I appreciate that Mr H subsequently gave a substantially different account of what 
had happened  and provided evidence of the transactions through the 
cryptocurrency exchange. But Starling had already returned the funds at this point. 
So this doesnt affect my conclusion.
I appreciate Mr H may now have difficulties recovering the funds from the purchaser 
of the cryptocurrency. But had Mr H been open about the nature of these payments 
from the outset, its quite likely none of what followed would have happened.
Ive next turned to the registration of information with the fraud database CIFAS. 
Starling has said the information it registered with CIFAS was for misuse of facility. 
This is because Mr H used his account to receive fraudulent funds. To file this 
marker, Starling doesnt need to prove Mr H is guilty of a crime, but they must show 
that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. There needs to be 
reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted; and the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such 
that the member could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
Starling has provided us with reports from the third parties. Given the information 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that the senders of the funds were the victims of fraud  and 
that Mr H received these funds into his account. But that on its own isnt enough for 
Starling to load a CIFAS marker. Starling needs to be satisfied Mr H received the 
funds unwittingly. 
Starling asked Mr H for information about one of the disputed payments  and Mr H, 
initially, gave what appears to be false information about the transaction. Mr H 
accepts this information was incorrect. And so it follows that it was fair for Starling to 
conclude that Mr H was complicit in receiving the fraudulent funds.
But Mr H has, subsequently, provided a lot more information about the transactions. 
Hes sent us evidence that the payments were made by third parties through a peer-
to-peer cryptocurrency exchange. It appears the cryptocurrency was held by the 
exchange until the third party had confirmed payment by bank transfer  at which 
point Mr H could release the cryptocurrency to the other party. Mr H has provided 
screenshots relating to these transfers, which includes chats and a screenshot of a 
bank transfer from the alleged victims. Hes also provided a screenshot showing the 
original purchase of some of the cryptocurrency from another site.
Im mindful that Mr H also had similar issues with another business  which 
ultimately removed its own CIFAS registration after Mr H demonstrated the 
transactions were genuine.
With all this in mind, while I acknowledge the concerns that Starling had with the 
information Mr H initially provided, based on what Ive seen I think its most likely Mr 
H was engaged in genuine cryptocurrency transactions. And once Mr H realised the 
consequences of providing incorrect information, he gave Starling the correct 
information about these transactions. By the time Mr H provided all the information, 
the true position had become clear. So I think Starling should remove the information 
it recorded with CIFAS. I can understand why Starling might have had reservations 
considering Mr H changing the purpose of the payments and the evidence provided. 
But I think that at the time Mr H provided this new evidence it no longer met the bar 
to register the marker.
Ive carefully considered what Mr H has said in response to my provisional decision. I reach 
the same conclusions for the same reasons. I recognise that Mr H may have been the victim 
of fraudsters here: hes transferred cryptocurrency to someone else, but hasnt received the 
proceeds of the sale as these have been transferred back to the payer. But thats not 
Starlings fault. Starling asked Mr H what the purpose of these payments were, and Mr H 
gave Starling information that was incorrect. While Mr H subsequently told Starling the truth, 
Starling had already returned the funds by that point. I dont accept it would be fair for 
Starling to now reimburse Mr H.
Ive gone on to consider whether Starling needs to do anything more to put things right. In 
my provisional decision I explained that while Id tell Starling to remove the information it 
registered with CIFAS, I wasnt minded to tell Starling to pay Mr H anything more given that 
everything that happened stemmed from Mr Hs failure to give Starling correct information 
about the transactions.
Ive considered Mr Hs further comments about this. Hes emphasised the impact this all had 
on him, including stress and the difficulties hes had finding accounts elsewhere. He feels hes been honest and cooperative, and shouldnt lose out because of what he sees as one 
mistake.
I have some sympathy with Mr H and dont doubt hes had a difficult time.
But Ive found that Mr H chose to hide the purpose of the payments through his account. It is 
not surprising that Starling had concerns. In the circumstances, I dont accept it would be fair 
to tell Starling to pay Mr H compensation.
Similarly, while I accept that the information recorded with CIFAS may have affected Mr Hs 
ability to get a mortgage, I also think its likely that any mortgage lender would have needed 
to assess Mr Hs income before deciding to lend. Given how Mr H described his income on 
his statements Im not satisfied that if everything had happened as it should have done Mr H 
would necessarily have been able to get a mortgage at that time. He also says that he now 
faces eviction from his home  though the information hes sent me doesnt show this is in 
any way connected to the information recorded against him.
So while Ive considered Mr Hs further comments. But they dont change my conclusion.
In all the circumstances, I think Starling should remove the adverse information it recorded 
with CIFAS. But I dont accept Mr H should get more.
Putting things right
Starling Bank Limited should remove the adverse information it recorded about this account 
with CIFAS.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Starling Bank Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman