DRN-2576419
The complaint
Ms M has brought this complaint on behalf of her son, Mr M. She complains about 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltds (Accredited) decision to settle a third party claim under 
Mr Ms car insurance policy. Ms M says Mr M never received any correspondence about the 
claim and it was settled without his knowledge. Mr M says hes lost three years No Claims 
Discount and wants this reinstated. 
All references to Accredited include agents appointed to act on Accrediteds behalf. 
What happened
Mr M held car insurance with Accredited and, when the policy ended, he asked for 
confirmation of his No Claims Discount (NCD). Mr M was told he didnt have any NCD on the 
basis Accredited had settled a third-party claim against his policy. Mr M complained and said 
this was the first time he had been informed of the claim. Accredited responded and referred 
to a recent discussion they had with Mr M during which he confirmed he was aware of an 
incident which had taken place. They said, during the discussion, Mr M told them a third-
party had rolled into his car. Accredited said, as they were unaware of the incident, and court 
proceedings had been issued against them, they attempted to contact Mr M. Having not 
heard back, they had to deal with the claim as presented to them. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He thought Accredited hadnt acted unfairly in 
settling the claim. Ms M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ms car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says he is covered for damage to a third partys car. It also says, under the 
heading Claims Conditions, Mr M must notify Accredited of any accidents regardless of 
blame and provide them with full details as soon as possible. The policy also says, We shall 
be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim. In circumstances where it is 
considered appropriate to do so We will be entitled to admit liability on behalf of You.  
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Accredited to make a decision on the claim as the 
policy allows them to take such steps. That said, the reason why they settled it was because 
they say they had to deal with the claim as presented to them. And, they didnt have any 
information from Mr M to challenge the claim. So, Ive looked at whether Accredited acted 
fairly and reasonably in taking this view. 
I can see from information provided by Accredited, they receive court documents which 
includes a Claim form describing the third partys version of the incident. This says, Mr M 
didnt stop and collided with the rear of the third partys car. Accredited then email Mr M the 
same day setting out the third partys version of the incident and ask Mr M to contact them 
urgently. The email gives a deadline and says if Mr M doesnt respond by the deadline then 
Accredited will accept the third partys claim in full. Having received no response, Accredited 
call Mr M to find out if he was involved in the incident. The call notes say Mr M answered the 
call, and when the call handler gave the name of the company they were calling from, Mr M 
hung up. The notes say they tried to call again but there was no answer. Accredited then 
send another email, referring to the phone call, and explain if they dont hear back by the 
deadline, they will seek to deal with the third-party claim. They also say, this could impact Mr 
Ms NCD. I can see the claim was then settled by Accredited. The payment is made to a firm 
of solicitors acting for the third party. In the letter, Accredited ask the solicitors to let the court 
know the claim has been settled. 
So, taking this all into account, I dont think Accredited have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in settling the claim. Mr Ms policy does require him to report any incidents to his insurer and 
I cant see thats happened here. I do understand Mr Ms point that the incident didnt cause 
any damage so, apart from exchanging details with the third party, he didnt feel this required 
any further action. I also note Mr M has his own account of what happened and says the 
third partys car rolled back and collided with the front of his car. Its not my role to comment 
on liability, and I can only consider whether Accredited have acted reasonably. I can see 
they contact Mr M as soon as they receive the Claim form and ask him to contact them 
urgently. I think its important to note that Accredited dont, at this point, have any information 
on their records which they can use to try and challenge the third partys account. They 
make efforts to contact Mr M by email and phone but, unfortunately, they dont receive any 
contact. And, more importantly, they dont, at any point, receive Mr Ms account of the 
incident to try and defend the claim. So, without this, and given that theyve received a Claim 
form, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably in settling the third partys claim. Accredited 
set a deadline by which they require the information and also explain the next steps if Mr M 
doesnt respond.     
I note Ms M says Mr M was under the impression he was insured by another company and 
didnt recognise the name of the company who contacted him by phone. She feels the agent 
company appointed by Accredited shouldve introduced themselves more clearly and this 
wouldve clarified their involvement in the matter. I can see the company who Mr M believed 
was his insurer is the insurance intermediary who arranged cover on behalf of Accredited. 
The company who contacted Mr M is appointed by Accredited as claims handling agents for 
this policy. I can understand why Mr M feels this wasnt clear but, from the emails sent to Mr 
M, I think it does make it clear theres a claim and the key details about it. And, they provide 
contact details for Mr M to get in touch. 
I understand Mr M is concerned about the impact this incident has had on his NCD. I can 
see from Mr Ms policy schedule, he doesnt have protected NCD. The policy document says 
if Accredited make a payment that they cant recover from another party, they will reduce Mr 
Ms NCD. There is then a table which shows the impact a fault claim will have on the NCD. 
Mr M says he had two years NCD at the start of the policy. The table shows the NCD will 
reduce down to zero if a claim is settled without any recovery of payment. So, I cant say 
Accredited have acted unfairly in reducing Mr Ms NCD.   
In summary, I think Accredited reached their decision on the claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. I dont think it was unfair for them to accept fault for the claim given they didnt have 
any defence to put forward.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman