DRN-4418109
The complaint
Mr C had a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with Embark Services Limited. And says 
that service over that time has been poor in a number of ways causing him distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
Mr C complained to Embark about a number of issues including the following:
He thought hed been overcharged fees for holding non-standard investments after 
those investments ceased to be held
Hed received no bank statements for his SIPP
He thought that there was a lack of clarity in the SIPP statements he received in 
2017 and then 2019
That he had no clarity over what happened to the proceeds of the sale of a property 
in 2017 that his SIPP was set up to hold
That he hadnt had regular valuations of his SIPP, and wanted to be compensated for 
that
Embark looked into Mr Cs concerns and acknowledged certain failings. It explained that it 
hadnt been informed of the change in the investment types held in his SIPP but waived the 
additional fees that had been levied on the SIPP for the investments it had formerly held. It 
accepted that it failed to provide Mr C with information about his investments and apologised 
for that. It found that it hadnt issued Mr C with Annual Valuation Reports (AVRs) in 2018 or 
2019 and offered him £100 for the distress and inconvenience that caused.
Mr C was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to our service. We 
contacted Embark who explained its finding and said it would increase its offer of 
compensation from £100 to £250. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and agreed that Embark had failed to offer a 
satisfactory service in a number of areas. But thought that its increased offer of £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience was fair. 
Mr C disagreed and referred his case for an ombudsmans decision. I considered all of Mr 
Cs issue afresh and issued a provisional decision to both parties explaining my view on the 
issues that I considered to be the crux of Mr Cs complaint. I explained why I thought Mr Cs 
complaint should be upheld, addressing the areas that I considered to be at the heart of the 
complaint. And recommended that Embark pay Mr C £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced. And that it clearly explained how the fees were refunded.
Embark acknowledged my provisional decision, accepting what Id suggested and offering 
no further comment or evidence.
Mr C responded offering comments on each of the issues that Id addressed. He disagreed 
with some of the conclusions that I had reached and ultimately disagreed with the amount of 
compensation that I had suggested was appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Which includes the comments and observations that Mr C provided in response to my 
provisional decision. I have considered everything hes said, as well as everything that has 
been shared in the time the case has been with us, and I am aware that he doesnt agree. 
So I understand that he will be disappointed to hear that I have not changed my mind. My 
final decision remains the same as I provisionally explained. I agree that Embarks service to 
Mr C fell short in a number of ways that I will explain below. I think this complaint should be 
upheld, even though I understand that Mr C doesnt think that the way that Ive proposed 
putting things right goes far enough.
I will start by explaining that, in reaching this decision, Ive taken into account relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for 
Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Of particular relevance in this case are:
- COBS 4.2.1R(1): The fair, clear and not misleading rule.
- PRIN 2.1 (Principle 2)  Embark must conduct its business with due skill, care, and 
diligence.
- PRIN 2.1 (Principle 6)  Embark must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Mr Cs issues with the service that hes had from Embark go back over a considerable 
period. And he has sent us a great deal of correspondence that he has had with Embark. I 
have looked at and considered everything that has been sent but will not comment on 
everything he has raised. That isnt intended as a discourtesy but rather a practical 
consideration. Thats because our service is an informal alternative to the courts and we are 
here to try to resolve disputes with the least formality. As I explained in my provisional 
decision Ill focus on what I think is the crux of Mr Cs complaint.
Fees for holding non-standard investments
Mr C raised this issue and Embark responded to explain how the problem arose. It has said 
that its charging structure varied dependant on the types of investments held within the 
SIPP. Whilst neither party has provided us with SIPP statements prior to 2017, I dont think 
its disputed that Mr Cs SIPP held unregulated investments. And the platform fee that 
Embark charged most likely reflected that. 
It appears that the investments in question were subsequently removed from the SIPP. I 
understand that Embark didnt receive formal notification from Mr C or any IFA on his behalf 
that his investment strategy had altered. But I dont think that ought to mean it didnt know 
that the SIPP no longer held non-standard investments. I refer here to Principle 6, because I dont think that continuing to charge a premium for a service it no longer had to provide is 
treating Mr C fairly.
But, irrespective of Embarks view of this, it offered to refund Mr C the additional fee that had 
been levied on his SIPP. Which is what I would have instructed it to have done in these 
circumstances. 
I can see that Mr C broadly welcomed this finding in my provisional decision. But requested 
that I share the finding in a wider way. I will address this by reiterating the point that was 
made in the provisional decisions cover letter. Which is that all of our final decisions are 
published on our website.
Issues with the information Mr C received
Mr C expressed his disappointment with the information that he received from Embark. And I 
think it is understandable that he is confused.
Embark have told Mr C that it issued annual valuation reports 18 months apart from one 
another. But Mr C points out that he hadnt received that. And I think he is correct. Embark 
agreed that it didnt send Mr C valuation reports in 2018 and 2020. And have apologised for 
that. 
Ive considered what Mr C was entitled to expect regarding this. And asked Embark to send 
us the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of his SIPP to help me understand. Those T&Cs that 
Embark have provided say that it will provide a yearly statement covering the investments of 
the plan. It says, this will give details of all investments relating to your Plan although (due 
to issues of timing and costs in obtaining valuations) this might not be a current valuation. 
I think this makes it clear that Embark should have provided annual valuations of Mr Cs 
SIPP. I also think that this made it clear that Embark didnt need to delay the issuing of 
statements if there were delays in obtaining the most up to date valuations. This included the 
provision that its valuation might not be current in every respect. I think it would have been 
okay for it to say that. I dont think it was fair or reasonable to send Mr C valuations at 
random times of the year. Or not to send a valuation at all as occurred in 2018 and 2020. 
The terms of Mr Cs SIPP allowed him to request additional valuations or statements at any 
time though. So, whilst the failure to provide routine or regular statements was a failing, I 
dont think its likely that it would have materially inconvenienced Mr C. Nor have I seen 
evidence that it would have caused him to have made or postponed making investment 
decisions based on the information being provided.
Mr C has additionally raised an issue that Embark failed to provide him with bank statements 
for the SIPP account until he requested those. It explained that it stopped routinely sending 
out bank statements as they were available on the online platform. But it hasnt provided 
information that Mr C was ever aware of that. Which I dont think was reasonable. 
Embark have also responded to Mr Cs complaint point about what happened to a property 
investment held in his SIPP. Embark acknowledged it hadnt updated Mr C with the result of 
that transaction and apologised for that. So I wont make a further determination on this 
point, and will accept that this is an agreed failing which I will consider in deciding how Mr C 
should be compensated.
Referring again to the rules I outlined above. Embark needed to provide information that was 
fair, clear and not misleading. Failing to provide the information that Mr C was entitled to 
receive wasnt fair. But Mr C has correctly identified that the valuation he received in 2017 was misleading. It wasnt actually correct. It listed the holdings in his SIPP and it included, in 
that list, details of a bank account that didnt belong in Mr Cs SIPP at all. So, overall I think 
Embark has repeatedly failed to comply with its obligation under COBS 4.2.1R.
Mr C has explained that he remains unhappy about the 2017 statement and says he has 
never had a satisfactory explanation about how that happened or whether it was actually a 
mistake. I understand his confusion and think that Embark could have offered a better 
explanation about how the error occurred. So I asked to see the statements in question to 
understand whether Mr C might reasonably have been led to believe that the error had 
inflated the value of his SIPP. Or, that the removal of it may reasonably have been 
considered to have taken value out of the SIPP that Mr C was entitled to.
The statements that I received showed that the entry in question in the 2017 valuation is 
described as a Trustees Bank Account. This is listed separately to the Main SIPP Bank 
Account that held the cash value in the SIPP. It was one of only six listed assets in the SIPP. 
Previous statements wouldnt have had that specific bank account listed. It certainly isnt 
right that a mistake like this was made in the valuation statement. But I dont think that it is 
fair or reasonable to conclude that this was anything other than an administrative error. Mr C 
hasnt claimed that he opened this account for his SIPP or that he placed funds into it. It 
would have been helpful had Embark been able to better explain this error. But, on judging 
this on a balance of probability, Im satisfied that it was an error and that neither that account 
nor the money in it belonged in Mr Cs SIPP.
I understand that Mr C is not in agreement with the conclusions Ive reached. In my role I am 
unable to instruct Embark how to conduct its business. Nor is it to provide information that 
Mr C thinks Embark should have provided. Instead, I have sought to look into what 
happened and determine whether Embark treated Mr C fairly or reasonably. And my 
conclusion, as explained is that I dont think it did. And I have taken all of this into 
consideration collectively when deciding what Embark should do to put things right. 
Putting things right
Ive considered the impact on Mr C for the mistakes that have happened. I can see that the 
random and unreliable nature of the annual valuation reports has caused Mr C distress. 
Which has been aggravated by the fact it happened over a number of years and the fact that 
information contained within one of the valuations was incorrect.
And Mr C has had to chase Embark for the bank statements that he wanted. I can see that 
this has caused him inconvenience. Although I can see that this may not have meant that 
this information was unavailable to Mr C through another medium.
Mr C has still queried the refunding of the surplus fee he was charged for a type of 
investment that he no longer held. He is unclear whether that has been refunded and if so 
what that amounted to.
I have considered all of this in the context of the types of awards that our service makes. 
And still think that what I suggested in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable. I would 
point out that Mr C responded to say that a £750 fine, in my opinion, does not send a strong 
enough message to them for consistent bad customer service. I would therefore like to point 
out that this award is not a fine. Our service is not the regulator, and it isnt our role to 
penalise firms for mistakes. In considering this figure, I weighed up what I thought was a 
reasonable level of compensation for the amount of distress and inconvenience that I 
reasonably considered these mistakes were responsible for. 
Taking all of this into account I think that Embark should:Itemize the surplus charges Mr C incurred as a result of being charged for investment 
types he no longer held. And refund those charges if it hasnt already. If it has 
already done this, demonstrate that to Mr C by showing how the refund was made in 
a clear way.
Pay Mr C £750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
experienced over the last few years of trying to resolve these issues. It has meant he 
has engaged in extensive correspondence and reviewing a lot of information to 
understand what has happened.
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Embark receiving Mr C's 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Embark deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Embark should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Embark Services Limited to compensate Mr C as Ive 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman