DRN-3212280
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2003. Mr S
and the estate of Mr R say Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited trading as Arnold Clark mis-
sold the PPI.
As explained in my provisional decision, I am sorry to see Mr R has passed away. In the 
hope that Mr S and the estate of the late Mr R wont mind, I will refer to him as Mr R in final 
my decision.
Background
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a hire
purchase agreement in July 2003.
Mr R said Arnold Clark mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint and
thought Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He explained to Arnold Clark that as the policy
didnt cover sickness claims if they resulted from a health problem the consumer already had
when they bought the policy, the PPI was wrong for Mr R. This was because Mr R had an
existing health issue at time of sale. Our adjudicator explained that it was important for Mr R
to have been aware of this exclusion when he was sold the policy. He said that the
restriction wasnt made clear to Mr R as if it had been, he wouldnt have taken out the policy.
Arnold Clark disagreed with the adjudicators view. It responded explaining that it hadnt seen
any evidence showing Mr R had medical treatment or sought medical advice in the 12
months before taking out the PPI.
As no agreement could be reached the case was referred to me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision to be issued.
I sent Mr S and the estate of Mr R and Lloyds my provisional decision to explain why I 
thought Mr S and the estate of Mr Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id 
consider anything else either side wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 9 
December 2021. Neither party responded to the provisional decision.
As the 9 December 2021 deadline has now passed I will issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S and Mr Rs case.
My provisional decision, which I have included below, explained why I thought Mr S and the 
estate of Mr Rs case shouldnt be upheld. In the absence of any new information or points 
from either party, my final decision is that Arnold Clark Automobiles trading as Arnold Clark 
did not mis-sell the PPI to the late Mr R and the case should not be upheld. 
Findings from my provisional decision issued on 25 November 2021
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr S and Mr Rs case.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant:
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done this, Im thinking of not to upholding Mr S and Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate
this will come as a disappointment. I will explain my reasons below.
I think Arnold Clark made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. Ill explain why.
Both Mr R and Arnold Clark agree the PPI was arranged during a meeting. Arnold Clark 
has provided a copy of the PPI application that was completed at the time. This 
application is separate to the application for the credit. Looking at the application I can 
see it has been pre-populated with Mr Rs details, and the cost of the PPI is included. I 
dont know what the discussions between the Arnold Clark representative and Mr R 
involved, but I think its likely the conversations reflected the details within this form. Mr R 
had to sign this form to take out the cover, and I wouldve expected there to have been 
an opportunity for him to ask questions if there was anything about the cover he was 
unsure of.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr R knew the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
Arnold Clark didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr R enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Arnold Clark gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. So Ive got to consider whether better information about the policy 
wouldve put Mr R off taking it out. The adjudicator who reviewed the case thought better 
information wouldve put Mr R off, however based on the information I have, I dont 
agree.
Mr R told us he had a medical condition at the time of sale and the adjudicator thought 
this condition was something that wouldve made it difficult for Mr R to make a claim on 
the policy, so the complaint was upheld. Ive thought carefully about the information we 
have about Mr Rs condition, and having done this, I dont think we have enough 
evidence to support this. I say this because the policy terms meant Mr R would not be 
able to claim for the first 24 months of cover for a condition that required treatment or 
advice in the 12 months prior to the start date. So, in order for Mr Rs condition to have 
been excluded I would need to see evidence or be persuaded that Mr R sought medical 
advice or received treatment for the condition in the 12 months before he was sold the 
PPI. Based on the information we have I am not persuaded Mr R did this.I can see we requested further information about Mr Rs health at the time of sale some
time ago, but further details were not available. Looking at the information we do have, it
seems Mr R did have a health condition, but it seems he wouldve been able to claim for
this as there isnt anything to indicate he required treatment or sought medical advice in
the 12 months for it before he took out the PPI. This means Mr R wouldve still benefitted
from this aspect of the PPI.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Rs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the other exclusions or limits on the PPI. Ive also found that Mr R 
chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Mr R told us he had 
employee benefits in the form of sick pay and a death in service benefit. However, I still 
think the PPI wouldve been of use to him  it looks like it was affordable for Mr R and it 
wouldve paid out alongside any other existing means he had. Because of this I dont 
think Mr R would have declined the cover had Arnold Clark done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr R would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr S and Mr Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Arnold Clark should have disclosed the poor
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr S and Mr Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts
and circumstances of Mr S and Mr Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr S and Mr Rs particular
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Arnold Clark doesnt have to do anything to put things right. As I've said above, I
know this is going to be a disappointment to Mr S and the estate of Mr R. I've carefully
thought about everything weve been told. But for the reasons I've explained above, I'm not
currently minded to uphold this complaint. I hope my explanation shows how I have reached
this outcome.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr S and the estate of Mr Rs complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman