DRN-3039658
The complaint
Mrs M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt provide the correct details 
when it sent funds to one of her accounts with another business. And when, as a result of 
the failure, the money was returned Halifax didnt notify her and she therefore lost out on the 
opportunity to invest.
What happened
In December 2019 Mrs M closed her account with Halifax and asked it to transfer the money 
(over £50,000) to her account with a building society Ill call B. Halifax confirmed it had done 
this in writing to Mrs M. Halifax did send the money to B, but it was returned. According to 
Halifaxs records when the money was returned the branch staff tried to call her but didnt 
have the right number. The records go on to say the branch then wrote to Mrs M on 
18 December 2019. Unfortunately, the branch didnt keep a copy of the letter. No other 
attempts were made to tell Mrs M her money was returned.
Mrs M discovered B didnt have her money when she contacted it some months later for a 
statement. She contacted Halifax who explained that the money was returned. It didnt think 
it had done anything wrong.
The investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He noted the bank had very 
complete records for Mrs M and the branch kept copies of most items for the attempted 
money transfer, so he was surprised the staff didnt keep a copy of the letter. He was not 
persuaded the letter was sent. He didnt think trying to call and write once was a reasonable 
effort to return over £50,000. The investigator recommended Halifax compensate Mrs M by 
paying her:
£2,233.08 as 8% simple interest for the 194 days between the funds being returned 
to Halifax on 18 December 2019 and Mrs M arranging to transfer them again on 
29 June 2020; and
£250 for the trouble and upset caused.
Halifax didnt agree with the view. It said that it is the customers responsibility to provide 
current phone numbers. It also said the letter was sent and explained why copies are not 
routinely kept in branches. It felt the investigator was asking it to change its processes. 
Finally, it questioned why B didnt contact Mrs M regarding the money or why Mrs M didnt 
contact B when she didnt receive documentation confirming the deposit.
The investigator responded to Halifax to say that two phone numbers were included on the 
customer file and whilst the mobile number wasnt Mrs Ms current number the home number 
was the number of the complaint form. Given the significant amount of money involved he 
felt it wasnt unreasonable to expect the bank to try both numbers. He felt the bank made 
only minimal effort.
Halifax responded to say that it didnt know when the landline had been added but felt that if 
it had been there in December 2019 the branch would have used it. Halifax said its process 
is to call and then send a letter. It did this. So, it didnt feel it did anything wrong and that the 
investigator was asking it to change its processes.
The investigator felt it was most likely the landline was on the file since 2017 and that there 
was no evidence the branch did call this number. Given the sum involved he didnt think 
Halifax had acted fairly.
My provisional decision
I didnt agree with all of the investigators view so I issued a provisional decision. I said when 
I first looked at this case, I felt it was important that we establish why the transfer from 
Halifax to B failed. B provided evidence that when it received the money no account details 
(in the form of the eleven-digit reference number) were provided by Halifax. Halifax said that 
was not the case but didnt provided any evidence in a viewable form which showed what 
was keyed in when the transfer happened. So, on balance, I thought it was most likely that 
despite Halifax being given the account number by Mrs M it didnt provide it to B.
Therefore, I thought Halifax was at fault for the transfer failing. Even if I were wrong, I 
thought Halifax let Mrs M down in another way.
I agreed with Halifax that it was Mrs Ms responsibility to update her numbers and that as the 
mobile number Halifax had for her was her number from eight years ago, she hadnt done 
this. But I thought it was most likely Mrs Ms landline was on her customer contact notes 
when the money was returned to Halifax. I thought it was also most likely Halifax didnt try 
this number but only tried the mobile number. I therefore thought the Halifax branch didnt 
follow Halifaxs process and had let her down.
I thought Halifax did send a letter to Mrs M to let her know that the transfer had failed. I 
thought Mrs M didnt receive this, but I didnt think this was Halifaxs fault. Equally I didnt 
think Mrs M was at fault, after all she wasnt expecting to receive this letter so when it didnt 
arrive, she wouldnt have known.
I did, however, think that with a transfer of this size it would be reasonable to expect that 
Mrs M would have checked that B had received the money. I asked Mrs Ms representative 
about this and he said: We had made several transfers into this new [B] account that day. [B] 
had given us receipts for the other funds which had been deposited but advised that they 
could not give a receipt for the Halifax transfer as it had not yet been registered on their 
system. We believed that this was just a timing issue and that confirmation would have come 
through later. It was only several months later when we chased up a statement that we 
realised that the money had not come into the new [B] account.
I said I thought about whether Mrs Ms failure to check with B that the money had arrived 
should have an impact on the compensation I should award. I said I thought it should 
especially as they had receipts for other transfers and so were aware that a receipt was due. 
If Mrs M had checked whether the money had been received earlier then I thought the error 
would have been discovered earlier. I thought it would be reasonable to have expected 
Mrs M to check the arrival of money within 30 days of the transfer. So, I thought it was fair to 
limit compensation to those 30 days.
The investigator suggested compensation be based on interest at 8% a year simple. I said I 
could understand why he suggested this. But at this service when a business makes a 
mistake, we try to put a consumer in as close to a position as they would have been had the 
mistake not occurred. Here we knew that Mrs M would have received 1.4% interest with B, 
so I thought that was the right rate to use.I said I appreciated the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs M on discovering that B 
didnt have the money. I thought the compensation for distress and inconvenience 
recommended by the investigator  £250  seemed fair. Mrs M must have been horrified 
when she discovered the money was missing.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs M, through her representative, accepted the provisional decision.
Halifax also accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties have accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from it 
and confirm it here now.
Putting things right
So, to put things right Ill order that Halifax pay Mrs M 30 days of interest at the rate of 1.4% 
per annum on the sum that she asked to be transferred to B; and £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and order that Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax should pay Mrs M:
30 days of interest at the rate of 1.4% per annum on the sum that she asked to be 
transferred to B; and
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman