DRN-3957757
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has failed to provide an 
outcome to a claim he made on behalf of the estate of his late brother, who I shall call Mr R.
What happened
Mr R applied for a decreasing term assurance policy with Aviva in June 2020. It offered him 
an initial sum assured of £120,000 over a ten-year term. 
Mr R sadly passed away in June 2021. Mr T is the sole executor of his brothers estate. The 
following month, Mr T made a claim to Aviva for death benefit under Mr Rs policy. Aviva 
sent out claim forms to Mr T, and asked for specific evidence relating to Mr Rs death.  
A coroner was appointed to carry out a post mortem report. The report was completed at the 
end of October 2021. A copy was thereafter supplied to Aviva.  
Mr Rs primary cause of death was given as a specific type of liver disease; the report also 
discussed alcohol misuse. Consequently, Aviva told Mr T that it needed to seek a copy of Mr 
Rs medical records to reference this against the information in Mr Rs policy application.  
In May 2022, Mr T complained. He said it was unfair to delay the claim by a year, and he felt 
it ought to have been resolved by now. 
In July 2022, Aviva rejected the complaint. It said it had chased the request to the GP every 
month from November 2021 to May 2022, when it then asked Mr T for consent to contact Mr 
Rs hospital instead. It had done so because the GP wasnt forthcoming with information.  
It told Mr R that it needed fresh consent from him for the hospital as Primary Care Support 
England (PCSE) would not accept consent dated more than six months previously. It 
therefore asked Mr T to return this, so it could conclude the claim.
In the interim, Mr T brought the complaint to this service. He explained how he had since 
given his consent for Aviva to contact the hospital, but this failed and it had gone back to the 
GP. Though he hoped Aviva would have resolved matters by this time, it had not. So he said 
he reluctantly lodged the complaint at this service - before our six-month time limit ended. 
   
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but she didnt believe it ought to succeed. She said 
she realised that there had been delays in providing a claim outcome to Mr T. But she didnt 
believe that Aviva had behaved unfairly such that it was responsible for the delays.  
She noted that Aviva had made appropriate contact with both the relevant GP and hospital 
to obtain the records for Mr R. However, this then resulted in it having to return to the GP 
due to a policy operated by the hospital in relation to access to medical records.  
Aviva needed to obtain relevant medical records because of the information supplied on the 
coroners report; so, our investigator did not think this was an unfair proposal when 
considering that it required receipt of specific evidence relating to Mr Rs medical history. 
Mr T disagreed. He said he had been waiting for an unreasonable amount of time, and more 
could have been done to settle the complaint sooner. He also said that to the best of his 
knowledge when Mr R took out the policy, he had ceased drinking. He therefore did not 
believe that Mr R had made any inaccurate statement in respect of his alcohol intake.  
Aviva did not have any further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn that Mr R had passed away, and I send my condolences to Mr T. I 
realise that my decision will be a disappointment for him, given the upset and difficulty he 
has already faced in pursuing the claim to Aviva. However, I am not able to uphold this 
complaint or make any award in these circumstances. Ill explain my reasons for that below.  
I accept that there has been a considerable time that has passed from the start of this claim 
 however, I do not believe that Aviva has contributed to this delay. Mr T first put his claim to 
Aviva in July 2021  but no action could take place until November 2021, after the coroner 
had reached a verdict at the end of October 2021. 
In that post mortem report, there is a cause of death which relates to alcohol misuse. Mr Rs 
policy application contained a number of questions relating to alcohol intake  and these 
said that Mr R did not drink alcohol at all in an average week. I know Mr T has comments to 
make about Mr R having stopped drinking, and those comments are something that Aviva 
must give due weight to. However, before it can do so, it needs to review Mr Rs medical 
records up to 26 June 2020  the date the policy started. It will do this by making a targeted 
request for information on those records relating to alcohol intake. 
It is a requirement for Aviva to establish that there had not been any misrepresentation at the 
time Mr R sought the cover (meaning that the questions were answered accurately, and to 
the best of Mr Rs knowledge and belief at that time). Relevant insurance law and guidance 
from the Association of British Insurers (ABI) permits Aviva to make reasonable 
investigations if prompted as to whether a misrepresentation took place in 2020  and Mr Rs 
post mortem report gave that prompt because it appears contrary to the application answers. 
Aviva then spent the next six months chasing Mr Rs GP for access to his medical records. 
Sadly, the GP did not provide the requisite information  despite Aviva asking it every month 
for updates. I have seen documentation relating to those attempts to chase the GP.  
In order to expedite matters further, Aviva then sought direct access from PCSE. However, 
after getting the relevant consent from Mr T, PSCE confirmed to Aviva in October 2022 that 
only the GP had authority to release the relevant records; so, Aviva had to revert to the GP.  
It is since this time that Aviva has been trying - without success - to obtain the records from 
the GP. In the interim, the complaint has been brought here in December 2022. 
We are not a regulator; that role falls to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, I wont 
be making findings on how Aviva ought to have approached the claim process. Similarly, I 
dont find that a business should be required to accept a claim within any set period from 
notification  because it is reliant on the actions of third parties when gathering medical 
evidence. No two claims are factually identical, and the time taken to verify, accept or refuse 
a claim will be fact-specific, and dependent on the evidence required to validate the claim.  So, the way in which Aviva decides to process policyholder claims isnt a matter for me to 
determine, aside from being mindful of the regulatory requirements upon businesses to 
handle claims promptly and fairly, provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make 
their claim and to provide appropriate information on its progress.   
My remit is to decide whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in all of the 
circumstances. Notwithstanding that the information is still awaited from the GP, I dont find 
Aviva to have acted unfairly to the point that Mr T pursued his complaint in June 2022. 
Though he said he had been waiting for a year, that wasnt the case. He had been waiting 
since November 2021  the first time at which Aviva could seek medical records following 
the coroner concluding and issuing the post mortem report. Aviva did try a different route to 
asking PCSE for the records, after it yielded no response from the GP. I dont find that unfair.  
However, I am mindful as Ive said above that this matter cannot be unending  though it is 
not Avivas fault that the GP has failed to engage in this matter, it will have to issue a claim 
outcome at some point. I can see that in its most recent communique to Mr T, Aviva said, it 
can often help if we both chase the GP as they are often more responsive to patients and 
family; although this is of course optional, it could help speed up the process. 
Mr T may therefore wish to consider whether to contact the GP directly. Given we are now a 
further six months along from the ongoing efforts to obtain the medical records, I would also 
expect Aviva to chase the GP more frequently than monthly; in my view, a fortnightly (or 
more) concentrated effort to obtain the records might expedite matters. If Aviva reaches a 
point where it still hasnt obtained the relevant records within the next few months, I believe it 
should reasonably consider issuing a provisional decision on the claim outcome to Mr R. 
In circumstances where a claim has now been delayed by one year, I would consider Avivas 
actions carefully in ensuring it has promptly and fairly updated a policyholder about the 
position of a claim  to determine if I think any compensation is due for distress or upset 
caused by a business. As Ive said above, I dont find Aviva at fault to date, as it has been 
making fair and concerted efforts to chase the GP. However, even if I were able to award 
compensation, I cannot do so to the representative of an estate; our rules do not permit it.  
We are bound by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules which apply to this service as set out 
in the FCA Handbook. An ombudsman is not able to avoid the rules or apply discretion to 
certain rules. Complaints made to this service must be pursued by an eligible complainant 
(for example, a consumer or a micro-enterprise) and those complaints must be about acts or 
omissions by businesses when carrying out certain regulated activities  in this case, Aviva 
processing the claim under the protection policy for which the late Mr T was the policyholder. 
DISP rule 2.7.2 R allows a third party to bring a complaint on behalf of an eligible 
complainant (such as a policyholder) to this service, for example from a representative or an 
executor of an estate for an eligible complainant that has since passed away. But that 
doesnt mean the representative is an eligible complainant in their own right. Mr T is a 
representative and not a complainant in his own right  as he was not specifically a named 
beneficiary for the policy; instead he is the executor for Mr Ts estate. Though this service can make further awards for the distress a business has caused in 
relation to a complaint (DISP 3.7.2 R), and whilst a complaint can be made to this service by 
a representative on behalf of the eligible complainant (or the estate of a complainant that has 
passed away), that does not confer the right to receive a money award to the representative. 
That means I even if I were minded to do so, I cannot make an award for upset, distress or 
anguish caused to Mr T by the delay in providing a claim outcome. 
 
Finally, my decision makes no findings on the claim itself  because Aviva has yet to make 
any confirmed judgement on that matter. It follows that my determination here has no 
bearing on Mr Ts rights to pursue future complaints to Aviva, if so required. 
My final decision
I do recognise the disappointment and frustration Mr T has suffered due to the time taken to 
receive a claim outcome on behalf of the estate of the late Mr R. But, for the reasons given I 
do not find that (up to the time this complaint was made) Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
to have acted unfairly or caused the delays  rather, those delays are being caused by the 
non-provision of medical records by the late Mr Ts GP. Nor can I make any award to Mr R 
for compensation in any event, as he is not an eligible complainant in his own right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr R, to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman