DRN-3036300
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc charged the wrong amount under a 
credit agreement.
What happened
In November 2017, Mrs W acquired a car. She financed this using a conditional sale 
agreement from Santander Consumer.
According to the agreement, the vehicle cost £61,777. Mrs W made an advance payment of 
£1,250. And so shed repay the remaining £60,527, with interest, over the 49 month term of 
the agreement. The agreement said shed make 48 payments of £1,015.89, followed by a 
final payment of £26,391.81.
The agreement said the rate of interest was 4.09% per year, which would be fixed for the 
duration of the agreement. It said this was equivalent to an APR of 7.9%. The agreement 
said that, in total, Mrs W would pay £13,627.53 in interest.
Mrs W thinks this is wrong. She says the interest should be £10,108.52. She says theres an 
overcharge of £3,519.01. And so she thinks this undermines the legitimacy of the whole 
agreement. Shes asked for a refund of all the instalments shes made and the deposit  
provided she returns the vehicle.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 August 2021. I said that based on 
what Id seen so far, I didnt think Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. In summary I said:
I looked at what Santander Consumer had done. Santander Consumer told us it used a 
monthly interest rate based on an APR of 7.9%, which it says is equivalent to a flat annual 
rate of 4.09%. This monthly rate worked out to be around 0.636%. It used this to work out 
the interest it charged each month  by applying this monthly rate to the capital balance 
outstanding each month. Mrs Ws repayments - £1,015.89 for 48 months, followed by the 
final payment of £26,391.81.
I said it was this final payment that explained the difference between Mrs Ws figure and 
Santander Consumers. On a month-by-month basis, the capital balance was greater than if 
Mrs W had repaid the loan by equal repayments  which meant Mrs W was charged more in 
interest. The part of the loan repaid by the final repayment would continue to accrue interest 
for the entire duration of the agreement.
I could see why Mrs W found this unclear. Santander Consumer was using a monthly rate, 
while the agreement expressed this as an annual rate. That monthly rate was only 
equivalent to a flat annual rate assuming the loan was repaid by equal instalments. Where, 
as here, a large portion of the capital balance remained part of the balance throughout the 
term, compounding meant the effective rate of interest, considered annually, was 
significantly greater.
With all that in mind, I went on to consider whether Santander Consumer needed to do 
anything to put things right. Mrs W had asked for Santander Consumer to refund all the 
instalments shed paid plus the deposit  provided she returns the vehicle. But I didnt think 
that would be fair.
While I acknowledged that the interest rate shown on the agreement may not have clearly 
corresponded to the interest that would be charged, I didnt think that made any difference to 
Mrs Ws decision to enter the agreement. Looking at the agreement I saw it set out:
the amount Mrs W had borrowed (£60,527.00),
the amount Santander Consumer planned to charge in interest (£13,627.53),
the total Mrs W would need to repay, including the advance payment (£75,404.53),
the monthly repayments (£1,015.89), and
the amount Mrs W would need to repay at the end of the agreement. (£25,391.81)
Given all the above, I thought it was clear to Mrs W what her commitments under the 
agreement were. I was also mindful that Mrs W has had use of the vehicle. And so while I 
could see that Santander Consumer might have expressed the interest rate more clearly, I 
didnt see that Mrs W had lost out because of this. The APR was also correct, which would 
have allowed her to compare the cost of this agreement to others. With all that in mind, I 
didnt see how it would be fair to now undo the agreement, based on the way the interest 
rate was expressed on the agreement, when all the other information showed Mrs W how 
much shed agreed to repay.
I said Id consider any further information Santander Consumer or Mrs W sent me by 
7 September 2021.
Santander Consumer replied to say it had nothing further to add.
Mrs W replied to say she disagreed with my decision. In summary:
she says the credit agreement says that interest is charged based on a flat rate of 
4.09% per annum applied to the full amount borrowed for 4 years and 1 month. She 
used this method to work out the interest she should have been charged, and her 
calculation has been endorsed by a chartered certified accountant,
she doesnt agree that an APR of 7.9% is equivalent to a flat rate of 4.09%
she doesnt think my explanation of how interest accrued on the different parts of the 
loan was coherent; there is no need for compounding
she doesnt think it is right that Santander Consumer work out a monthly rate based 
on the APR, given that the relevant regulations say APR is calculated based on 
interest payable. To use the APR to work out the interest is to put the cart before the 
horse,
she says, based on my explanation, that Santander appear to have charged interest 
twice on the final balloon payment;
If Santanders calculation was correct, it would agree with hers.
Turning to what Santander needs to do to put things right, Mrs W says that as the rate of 
interest charged is fundamental to the contract, the contract is fatally flawed. It should be 
voided ab initio, The car should be returned to Santander and the payments returned to the 
borrower.
Mrs W says the main question I need to consider is whether Santander is obliged to 
calculate the total charge for credit in the way demanded by the agreement. If yes, then her calculation is correct. If no, then she wants to know how Santander can legally avoid the 
terms of the agreement.
Ive therefore considered the complaint again in light of Mrs Ws comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit agreement, which Mrs W has signed, says shed agreed to pay Santander 
Consumer £1,015.89 a month for 48 months followed by a final repayment of £25,391.81. I 
think the agreement made it clear what Mrs Ws commitments under the agreement were 
going to be.
But Mrs W now claims she doesnt need to pay any of this because of shortcomings in the 
way Santander Consumer described the rate of interest. She wants to return the vehicle and 
get all her money back.
Ive carefully considered the points Mrs W has made in response to my provisional decision. 
But they dont change my conclusions.
First, Im not satisfied that the interest Santander Consumer has worked out is wrong.
Although Mrs W says that the credit agreement says that interest would be based on 
a flat rate of interest of 4.09% per annum, the credit agreement doesnt say this. The 
credit agreement states that interest is pre-computed on the amount of credit that is 
to be outstanding from time to time over the duration of the agreement. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, the balloon payment meant that a large part of 
the capital balance remained outstanding for the entire duration of the agreement. So 
Mrs W is charged more in interest. 
Im sorry Mrs W didnt find my explanation of the interest that accrued on the balloon 
payment coherent. But if a large part of the balance wasnt being repaid by Mrs Ws 
monthly repayments, it follows that more interest would accrue on that part of the 
balance.
While Mrs W doesnt agree that an APR of 7.9% is equivalent to a flat rate of 4.09% 
over the term of 49 months, this follows mathematically from the formula used to 
calculate APRs.
I acknowledge that the agreement could have expressed the interest rate more 
clearly. It could, for instance, have shown the monthly rate. However, for the reasons 
Ive explained, Im satisfied that the loan agreement allowed Santander Consumer to 
work out interest based on the balance of the loan from time to time, and not just as a 
flat rate at the start.
While I accept Mrs Ws calculations are different, all the differences can be explained 
by the factors Ive set out above.
But more fundamentally, I think Mrs W knew what her ongoing commitments would be when 
she signed the agreement. She now seeks to attack the agreement by pointing to the way 
the interest rate is expressed on the agreement. But I dont think this would have made any 
difference to her decision to enter this agreement  I think she would have placed far greater 
weight on the monthly repayment figures. Given the agreement set out Mrs Ws repayments, plus the total amount of interest Santander Consumer planned to charge over the term of the 
agreement I dont see how it would be fair to now say that Mrs W doesnt now need to repay 
the amount she agreed to repay.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman