DRN-3424584
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that AIB Group (UK) Plc trading as First Trust Bank (AIB) wont 
refund money they paid from their account as the result of a scam.
For ease of reading and as shes done most of the correspondence on this complaint, Ill 
mostly refer to Mrs R where I mean both her and Mr R. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2018 Mrs R made three payments from her joint AIB account to a builder, the payments 
were intended to be for materials for work at their home and totalled £30,000. But the builder 
never did the work requested (or provided any materials) and ceased contact with Mrs R. I 
understand this was reported to the police and there is an ongoing investigation. 
In 2020 having seen publicity about consumers sometimes being able to recover their losses 
from their bank, Mrs R reported this to AIB. AIB contacted the bank that had received the 
payments and were told that no funds remained to be returned. They declined to reimburse 
Mrs R. 
Mrs R complained and when AIB maintained their position the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary she didnt think that AIB were liable for the loss. Mrs R disagrees and has asked 
for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs R, so Ill explain why. 
AIB have longstanding obligations to act in their customers best interests and to be alert to 
fraud and scams. But even if I were to conclude that AIB should have intervened in the 
payments at the times they were made, Im not persuaded this would have made a 
difference. 
At that time, Mrs R didnt know that there was any issue with her builder. In fact, her 
testimony is that around the time the same builder was also working for a relative of hers 
and that work had commenced at their address. So if AIB had asked Mrs R questions about 
the payments and their purpose, I think its most likely she would have confirmed them to be 
genuine and going to her builder. I dont think any reasonable level of questioning by AIB 
would have revealed (at that time) that the builder wasnt going to provide the materials or 
complete the work asked of him. I appreciate Mrs R believes she wouldnt have gone ahead 
with the payments if challenged by AIB, but Im not persuaded that is the case. 
Mrs R has said that the payments actually went to her builders wifes account as he didnt 
have one of his own. Her implication is that had she known this, it would have influenced her 
decision to send the payments. But this isnt something I think AIB reasonably could have 
known or alerted her to at the time. So, I cant say that is a reason why they ought to have 
done anything differently. 
It wasnt until 2020 that Mrs R asked AIB to help her to get her money back. AIB say they 
contacted the beneficiary bank and no funds remained to be returned. It seems to be a 
common feature of situations like this that the funds are promptly withdrawn or transferred 
from the account that receives them. I dont think there were any delays or failings by AIB 
which impacted on the recovery of any of Mrs Rs funds. 
Mrs R has previously mentioned the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) which is a 
voluntary code through which victims of scams can sometimes receive redress from the 
banks involved. But AIB havent signed up to the code and it also wasnt introduced until 
2019 and specifically wasnt retrospective (something Mrs R appears to now accept). So I 
cant use the CRM as a reason to ask AIB to do more. 
I appreciate Mrs R was experiencing an exceptionally difficult time when these events all 
took place (including a family bereavement). But despite my natural sympathy for her 
circumstances, it would only be fair for me to direct AIB to do more, if I think they are 
responsible for her loss (or a proportion of it). And as I dont think they are, I cant fairly tell 
them to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman