DRN-3752574
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declining a claim under their home 
insurance policy for damage to their property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, at the time of Storm Eunice, Mrs H and Mr Hs property suffered roof 
damage, with a chimney pot being blown off which fell onto the roof and broke a tile. They 
contacted QIC to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim.
Given the volume of claims because of Storm Eunice, QIC advised Mrs H and Mr H to 
engage their own contractor to repair the damage (even if a temporary repair) to avoid 
further damage. Mrs H and Mr H engaged a local firm to carry out a repair. Because the size 
of roof tile wasnt available, the contractor used a smaller tile they had available and made 
good the difference with mortar. Because the chimney wasnt in use, they capped it off. Mrs 
H and Mr H paid £550 for the repair.
QIC then arranged for a surveyor to visit the property and assess the damage and whether it 
had been directly caused by the storm. The surveyor noted the chimney had been capped 
off (but not ventilated) and the repair to the tile was poorly carried out because a smaller tile 
had been used. Because the surveyor concluded the repair had been carried out poorly, QIC 
declined to reimburse Mrs H and Mr H the cost. Because of the poor workmanship, QIC said 
they also wouldnt be able to appoint their contractor to carry out a permanent repair. But 
they offered a cash settlement of £724.84 for Mrs H and Mr H to carry out the repair (less the 
policy excess of £200). Once the repair was completed, QIC said theyd also reimburse any 
VAT element (on production of an appropriate invoice) up to a value of £144.98.
Mrs H and Mr H were reluctant to accept the cash settlement, as they would have preferred 
the repair work to be carried out by a contractor appointed by QIC. However, following 
further consideration by QIC, they contacted Mrs H and Mr H to say their claim was being 
declined because they didnt consider the [original] damage was consistent with a storm.
Mrs H and Mr H challenged QICs decision, who treated it as a complaint. But they didnt 
uphold it. In their final response QIC accepted there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident. But they confirmed their decision not to reimburse Mrs H and Mr H for the initial 
repair, on the grounds of an exclusion in the policy for poor workmanship. They also said 
theyd considered Mrs H and Mr Hs claim against other insured perils under the policy but 
were satisfied none were applicable.
Mrs H and Mr H then complained to this service. They said theyd followed QICs advice to 
engage a contractor to make a repair as soon as possible (even a temporary repair) to 
prevent further damage. As they werent roofers, they accepted the contractors view about 
using slightly smaller tiles (given the size of tiles on their roof werent available) and capping 
the chimney. They didnt feel QIC had acted fairly in declining their claim, and they wanted 
the chimney and roof repaired under the policy. They also wanted reimbursement of the 
£550 paid for the initial repair. Theyd also found the experience stressful.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding QIC hadnt acted unfairly. He 
thought the chimney was already in poor condition with signs of ageing and deterioration, 
and this was the main cause of the damage (not the weather). He thought, on the balance of 
probabilities, more likely than not the chimney would have withstood the weather conditions 
had it been in a better state of maintenance. As the policy excluded cover for damage 
caused by gradual or maintenance-related loss, QIC acted reasonably in declining the claim. 
While Mrs H and Mr H said QIC instructed them to proceed with a repair, they would have 
needed to pay for the repairs regardless of whether QIC declined the claim before or after 
the repairs were carried out. While QIC considered the cost of the [tile] repair under the 
accidental damage section of the policy, it didnt accept the cost as it was less than the 
policy excess. The investigator didnt think this unfair.
Mrs H and Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
In my findings, from photographs of the chimney after the storm, the damage was to the pot 
itself, which appeared broken off at a point above the level of the base. This didnt suggest a 
problem with the mortar, which remained in place, as did the lower part and base of the pot. 
So, I wasnt persuaded gradual deterioration was the cause of the pot breaking off. Given 
the wind speed on the date of the incident, I thought the more likely cause was the very high 
winds, particularly given the exposed location of the pot.
Together with the principle of the onus on an insurer to show an exclusion applies, I 
concluded QIC hadnt shown enough to apply the exclusion. So, they hadnt acted fairly in 
declining the claim for the damage that occurred in the storm.
 
On QIC declining to pay for the cost of the repair carried out by the contractor engaged by 
Mrs H and Mr H, I concluded QIC hadnt acted fairly and reasonably. While QIC hadnt 
provided call recordings of conversations with Mrs H and Mr H when they contacted them to 
report the damage, I didnt have any reason to doubt what they said about being told by QIC 
to engage a contractor to make a repair (even a temporary repair) to prevent further 
damage. Nor had QIC disputed this. It was also consistent with policy terms on making a 
temporary repair to reduce further loss or damage. So, I thought Mrs H and Mr H acted 
reasonably on what theyd been told by QIC.
On the issue of the repair workmanship, I thought it wasnt clear whether the repair was only 
intended to be temporary (rather than permanent). However, from the description of what 
happened and the nature of the repair carried out (capping the chimney and using a slightly 
smaller tile with additional mortar) this suggested it may have been intended as a temporary 
repair to seal the chimney and roof against further bad weather (and damage). If so, the 
issue of workmanship wasnt key. So, I didnt think it reasonable for QIC to use the exclusion 
to decline to pay for the repair. Nor was I persuaded by QICs view Mrs H and Mr H 
breached a policy condition preventing the full validation of the claim, as QIC subsequently 
declined the claim. So, it didnt seem they were prevented from validating the claim.
Having reached these conclusions, I considered what QIC needed to do to put things right. I 
thought they should reimburse Mrs H and Mr H for the repair carried out (including, as 
appropriate, any VAT). On the claim for the damage caused by the storm, I thought they 
should assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. I also 
thought Mrs H and Mr H should receive £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Because I reached different conclusions from our investigator, I issued a provisional decision 
to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mrs H and Mr H.
The main element of Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint is that QIC unfairly declined their claim for 
the cost of the repair they had carried out, on the grounds the repair was carried out with 
poor workmanship. They are also unhappy, secondly, that QIC  while accepting there were 
storm conditions at the time of the incident  declined the claim on the grounds the damage 
from the incident wasnt consistent with a storm. Mrs H and Mr H dont agree, saying the 
initial repair was carried out by a contractor they engaged, having been advised to do so by 
QIC (to avoid further damage to their property). Mrs H and Mr H are also unhappy at the 
stress the incident and the handling of the claim has caused them.
Taking the second issue first, Ive considered the three key issues we consider in cases 
where theres storm damage:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC accept there were storm conditions around 
Mrs H and Mr Hs property at the time of the incident, with the weather reports recording a 
highest wind speed of 77 mph. This met the policy definition for a storm event. It also 
accords with the weather report describing the wind as violent storm force gusts. The 
reports from the weather firm this service uses also indicate storm conditions at the time of 
the incident. So, Ive concluded there were storm conditions at the time of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs Ive seen indicate the chimney pot has broken off 
and theres a broken tile (from the chimney pot debris as it fell). In their case notes, QIC 
state the damage to the chimney pot isnt consistent with a storm. But I dont agree  both 
types of damage are ones wed expect in storm conditions, particularly high winds. So, Ive 
concluded the damage is consistent with that a storm typically causes.
The third question is therefore key. In their final response, QIC said the claim (for damage 
that occurred in the storm) had been declined on the grounds of an exclusion for poor 
workmanship. They referred to the following extract from the policy terms and conditions:
Section 13
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials (including 
latent defects) or poor design (a latent defect is a fault which exists, but which only 
causes a problem at a later stage).
However, this exclusion was used to decline Mrs H and Mr Hs claim for the cost of the 
repair of the damage from the storm - I dont think its relevant to the question of the initial 
damage itself. 
As part of our investigation of Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint, QIC told us theyd declined the 
claim for damage because the damage to the chimney was due to its poor condition before 
the storm (not the storm itself). As such, the cause of the damage was gradual deterioration 
and the storm merely highlighted this, rather than being the cause of the damage. Ive 
considered this view carefully, together with the report from QICs surveyor and the 
photographs available of the chimney and the roof, both in the immediate aftermath of the storm and after the repair was carried out. Taking these into account, Ive concluded QIC 
havent acted fairly in declining the claim. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
Looking at the photographs of the chimney taken immediately after the storm (but before the 
repair) I can see some cracking of the mortar on top pf the chimney stack, forming the base 
on which the chimney pot sat. Theres also some moss around the base of the pot. But the 
damage was to the pot itself, which appears to have broken off at a point above the level of 
the base (which remains in place, as does the mortar around the base). This doesnt suggest 
a problem with the mortar, which remains in place, as does the lower part and base of the 
chimney pot. So, Im not persuaded any gradual deterioration there may have been was the 
cause of the pot breaking off. Given the speed of the wind on the date of the incident (QIC 
refer to gusts of up to 77mph) I think the more likely cause of the pot breaking off was the 
very high winds, particularly given the location of the pot meant it was more exposed.
Together with the point that the onus is on the insurer to show the exclusion applies, Ive 
concluded QIC havent shown enough to apply the exclusion. So, they havent acted fairly in 
declining the claim for the damage that occurred in the storm. Ill come on to set out what I 
consider QIC should do to put things right.
Coming back to the main element of the complaint, QIC declined to pay for the cost of the 
repair carried out by the contractor engaged by Mrs H and Mr H. Mrs H and Mr H say (given 
the volume of claims due to Storm Eunice) they followed QICs advice to engage a 
contractor to make a repair as soon as possible (even a temporary repair) to prevent further 
damage. As they werent roofers, they accepted the contractors view about using a slightly 
smaller tile and capping the chimney. QIC say they declined the claim for the cost of repair 
due to the exclusion for poor workmanship. 
While not mentioned in their final response, as part of our investigation of Mrs H and Mr Hs 
complaint, QIC provided a further ground for declining the claim, based on the Claims 
procedures and conditions section of the policy, stating that:
You may carry out any temporary repairs that are necessary to reduce any further 
loss or damage but do not carry out any permanent repair without first getting our 
written permission
QIC say Mrs H and Mr H completed repairs which prevented full validation of the claim, 
which breaches the condition.
Ive considered both views carefully, but Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining to pay for the cost of the repair. 
Ive reached this conclusion for several reasons. First, while QIC havent provided any call 
recordings of conversations they had with Mrs H and Mr H when they contacted them to 
report the damage, I dont have any reason to doubt what theyve said about being told by 
QIC to engage a contractor to make a repair (even a temporary repair) to prevent further damage. Nor have QIC disputed this. Its also consistent with the above policy terms about 
making a temporary repair necessary to reduce any further loss or damage. So, I think Mrs 
H and Mr H acted reasonably on what theyd been told by QIC.
On the issue of the workmanship of the repair, whats not clear is whether the repair was 
only intended to be temporary (rather than permanent). However, from the description of 
what happened and the nature of the repair carried out (capping the chimney and using a 
slightly smaller tile with additional mortar) this suggests it may have been intended as a 
temporary repair to seal the chimney and roof against further bad weather (and the damage 
that it might then cause). If that was the case, then I think the issue of workmanship isnt the 
key point (if the repair achieved the aim of securing the chimney and roof, pending a 
permanent repair). So, I dont think its reasonable for QIC to use the exclusion to decline to 
pay for the cost of the repair.
Nor am I persuaded by QICs view Mrs H and Mr H breached the above condition, 
preventing the full validation of the claim. As well as Mrs H and Mr H following QICs advice 
to engage a contractor to make a repair (even if temporary) as QIC subsequently declined 
the claim for the damage in the storm (due to the condition of the chimney), it doesnt seem 
to me they were prevented from validating the claim  given they subsequently declined it.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered what I think QIC need to do to put things 
right. One the issue of the repair, I think they should reimburse Mrs H and Mr H for the cost 
of the repair carried out (including, as appropriate, any VAT element). On the issue of the 
claim for the damage caused by the storm, as I dont think theyve acted fairly in using the 
exclusion for gradual deterioration to decline the claim, they should assess the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. This may involve (as it did originally, 
before they declined the claim) making a cash settlement. In both cases, this should be 
subject to any policy excess that applies.
Ive also considered Mrs H and Mr Hs point about the stress the incident and the handling of 
the claim has caused them. Looking at what happened, the sequence of events (including 
being made a cash settlement which was then withdrawn) I think Mrs H and Mr H will have 
suffered distress and inconvenience. Taking account of all the circumstances of the case, I 
think £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs 
complaint. I intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the claim for damage from the storm in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Reimburse Mrs H and Mr H for the cost of the repair carried out (including, as 
appropriate, any VAT element).
Pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
In addition, given Mrs H and Mr H have paid the cost of the repair, I think its reasonable to 
add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date Mrs H and Mr H paid the cost to the date 
QIC Europe Ltd reimburse them.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mrs H and Mr H accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.Mrs H and Mr H responded to say they accepted the provisional decision.
QIC responded with two points. First, on the damage to the chimney, they provided a 
photograph they said showed it to already be in poor condition [before the storm] with heavy 
moss visible and what appeared to be older cracks around the mortar where the chimney 
stack was previously. They thought the chimney would have withstood the weather 
conditions had it been in a better state of maintenance. So, the chimney was gradually 
deteriorating prior to the incident. Gradual deterioration was a policy exclusion and therefore 
the claim would not be covered.
Second, on Mrs H and Mr H having been advised to carry out repairs, QIC said that the 
recording of the call, when Mrs H and Mr H first told them of the damage, indicates that their 
agent tells them that we will ask you to make any temporary repairs to make sure there is 
no further damage.. QIC went on to add that they consider temporary repairs to be minimal, 
to mitigate any further damage (for example, using a tarpaulin sheet to cover the affected 
area). But as the repairs carried out [by the contractor engaged by Mrs H and Mr H] included 
capping the chimney and using mortar, they considered that to be a long-term repair  and 
as such, excluded under the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mrs H and Mr H.
Ive considered both points made by QIC in their response. 
On the damage to the chimney, which QIC say was already in a poor condition and was 
gradually deteriorating prior to the incident, Ive thought about this carefully. However, I dont 
agree. Id noted in my provisional decision there was some cracking of the mortar on top pf 
the chimney stack, as well as some moss around the base of the pot. However, the damage 
was to the pot itself, which appeared to have broken off at a point above the level of the 
base (which remained in place, as did the mortar around the base). This doesnt suggest a 
problem with the mortar. So, I wasnt persuaded any gradual deterioration there may have 
been was the cause of the pot breaking off. The photograph provided by QIC doesnt change 
this conclusion  the chimney stack is intact, as is the mortar. So, it hasnt failed. Given this, 
I havent changed my provisional conclusion QIC unfairly used the gradual deterioration 
exclusion to decline the claim.
On the second point, the repair by the contractor engaged by Mrs H and Mr H, I havent 
been provided with the full recording from which QIC have quoted. But taking the quote as 
provided, it confirms what I said in my provisional decision about Mrs H and Mr H having 
been advised to carry out temporary repairs. While I can appreciate what QIC say about the 
nature of temporary repairs (such as a tarpaulin) theyve not provided any evidence to 
indicate Mrs H and Mr H were told specifically what kind of temporary repair to make (or that 
any repair shouldnt include mortar). I think it was reasonable for Mrs H and Mr H to engage 
a contractor and for them to determine the form of repair. 
Even, if the repair was seen to be long-term, given my conclusion that QIC have unfairly 
declined the claim for damage, then QIC would have had to assess the claim and (if 
accepted) pay for a repair (or pay for a temporary then a permanent repair). In those 
circumstances, I havent changed my conclusion that QIC should reimburse Mrs H and Mr H 
for the cost of the repair. It would then be for QIC to assess whether the repair carried out needs to be replaced by a different (permanent) repair. So, I havent changed my mind on 
this point.
Taking these conclusions together, my final decision remains the same as my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. I 
require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the claim for damage from the storm in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Reimburse Mrs H and Mr H for the cost of the repair carried out (including, as 
appropriate, any VAT element).
Pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
In addition, given Mrs H and Mr H have paid the cost of the repair, I think its reasonable to 
add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date Mrs H and Mr H paid the cost to the date 
QIC Europe Ltd reimburse them.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mrs H and Mr H accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman