DRN-3165428
The complaint
Mr J feels that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) didnt do enough to help him when 
he told it he was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
In March 2020, at the start of the Covid pandemic, Mr J contacted Halifax to say that his 
income would be significantly affected by the lockdown restrictions that had been put in 
place and to ask for help with his account. Mr J didnt feel that the help Halifax offered was 
enough. He was also unhappy that a letter he had written setting out his concerns was lost 
by the bank, and that it had been so difficult to get in direct contact with Halifax to discuss his 
difficulties.
Halifax did not uphold Mr Js complaint, so he referred his concerns to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js concerns, she explained that she thought Halifax 
had offered appropriate assistance with Mr Js financial difficulties and so didnt need to do 
anything more. Mr J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And
Ive thought about this when deciding Mr Js complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Halifax charged Mr J were fair and reasonable. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs charging structure per se, it wont have acted
fairly and reasonably towards Mr J if it continued to apply any interest, fees and charges to 
his account  and didnt offer any other assistance  in circumstances where it was aware, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware, that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr J 
fairly and reasonably.
I dont think that Halifax did treat Mr J unfairly or unreasonably though. 
Mr J first contacted Halifax on 24 March 2020 to explain that his income would be 
significantly reducing. As an initial step to help him Halifax made a payment of £100 into his 
account and told him about its money management team. Mr J had trouble getting in touch 
with the money management team, but when he was able to speak to them in April 2020 
they offered to suspend overdraft charges on his account for a month. Mr J then spoke to 
Halifax again in May 2020, and from Halifaxs notes I can see that he told it he would be 
going back to work in June 2020, but that he was looking for a loan to refinance his debts. 
Halifax was unable to offer a refinance loan at that time so asked him to get back in touch in 
July 2020 to see what his situation was then, and it would be able to look again at whether it 
could offer a loan. Ultimately, Mr J got a loan elsewhere and repaid the overdraft in June 
2020.
I appreciate that Mr J feels Halifax should have offered him a loan to refinance his debts, but 
any decision to lend is a commercial decision, and so not something we would get involved 
in. At the time, it was unclear exactly how Mr Js financial situation would unfold in future, so 
I think it was reasonable for Halifax to offer short term assistance  such as refunding or 
waiving charges. 
Mr J says that if he had been given a loan by Halifax then he would have avoided the 
charges on his account, but the amounts Halifax has already refunded are more than the 
charges that were applied during this period, so I cant see that Mr J has lost out financially 
by not getting a loan as soon as he asked for it. And as Ive said, it is not the role of this 
service to say that any business must offer a customer a specific product, thats a 
commercial decision. Just as it is a customers right to seek the products they want 
elsewhere if a particular bank wont or cant provide that product. Which is ultimately what 
Mr J did.
I appreciate that Mr J was frustrated by how difficult it was to contact Halifax on occasion, 
and that a letter he sent to Halifax was apparently lost somewhere at the bank. But, overall,l 
I think Halifax did do what it could  given the wider circumstances at that time  to provide 
Mr J with advice and assistance. And Halifax has paid Mr J £35 to apologise for losing his 
letter, which I feel is an appropriate amount in the circumstances.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr J, but Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt 
treated him unfairly, I think it took appropriate steps to help him with his account given the 
situation at the time, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman