DRN-4235969
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Wakam avoided his home insurance policy and refused to pay his 
claim.
What happened
Mr K bought home insurance underwritten by Wakam through its website. He made a claim 
under the policy after he suffered an escape of water from his living room radiator. Wakam 
instructed a loss adjuster who then inspected the damage. The loss adjuster noted the 
following in the report:
The escape of water was unlikely to have caused all the damage claimed for.
Mr K was undertaking renovation work.
Mr K reported that hed made two claims with his previous insurer.
Wakam said Mr K answered the question it asked about the number of previous claims 
incorrectly. And it considered this to a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation which entitled 
it to avoid the policy, refuse the claim, and keep the premium hed already paid. 
Wakam also told Mr K that even if his policy had been valid, hed failed to notify it of building 
work he was doing, which is a requirement of the policy. So, it would likely have declined his 
claim anyway.
Mr K brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought his complaint should not be 
upheld. They agreed thered been a qualifying misrepresentation, and agreed it was 
deliberate or reckless, and agreed Wakam was entitled to avoid Mr Ks policy and retain the 
premium hed paid.
Mr K didnt agree. He said the question Wakam asked about the number of claims wasnt 
clear, so he didnt think itd treated him fairly by avoiding his policy. In respect of the 
renovations, Mr K said the more extensive elements of work had been done before policy 
inception, so the smaller, decorative works fell outside the policy requirement to notify 
Wakam. He provided evidence that his boiler was installed almost ten years earlier, and said 
hed removed the fireplace, floorboards and skirtings to mitigate the damage caused by the 
leaking radiator.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. In consideration of whether 
Wakam fairly cancelled the policy for misrepresentation, I must refer to the relevant rules. In 
doing so, my decision will likely repeat a lot of what our investigator said. However, Id like to 
reassure Mr K that I have looked at all the evidence.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Wakam thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
bought the policy because he only disclosed one claim and he didnt tell it about renovations 
he was making to the house. Ill deal with each matter in turn.
Claims
Ive looked at the question Mr K said he was asked, which was about the value of the claim. 
It gave the option to choose a claim value of less than £2,500 or more than £2,500. Mr K 
said it didnt give the option to say it was an information only, a declined or withdrawn claim.
Ive looked at what Wakam asked before its question about the claim value. The question 
was, How many buildings insurance claims have you filed in the last three years?
The four options to select from were, No claims; 1 claim; 2 claims; 3 or more claims.
Mr K said hed filed one claim because the second one was merely an information request 
and didnt progress to a claim. Also, Mr K said the question wasnt clear because of 
Wakams use of filed.
Ive thought carefully about this point, taking into consideration Mr Ks explanation about the 
second claim and his own description of his profession. He said he contacted his previous 
insurer about possible storm damage to his roof when his neighbours roofer asked if he 
wanted any repairs. The insurer sent a loss adjuster to inspect the roof but said there wasnt 
any damage. 
Im satisfied this amounts to a claim because Mr K didnt decline the insurers inspection of 
his roof. And, if thered been damage, I think its more likely than not that Mr K wouldve 
progressed to repair or cash settlement in line with the policy. Otherwise, there would be no 
benefit in contacting the insurer and allowing a loss adjuster visit.
The other point Mr K makes is about the clarity of the question. He provided a definition of 
filed, suggesting that it only applied to paid claims. I dont find the word unusual, and I dont 
think Mr K is claiming he looked up the word before answering the question. Further, when 
the loss adjuster asked him about claims hed made, he included both previous claims. That 
tells me Mr K was aware his second claim would be considered as such.
Therefore, Im satisfied Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said hed only made one claim in the previous three years.
Wakam provided evidence of the underwriting decisions its webpage wouldve revealed to Mr K during the sale if hed correctly stated hed made two claims. The sale wouldve 
stopped and Wakam explained that it wouldnt provide cover for anyone with two or more 
claims in the previous three years.
As Wakams underwriting criteria shows that it would never have offered cover if Mr K hadnt 
made the misrepresentation, Im satisfied it was a qualifying misrepresentation.
Wakam classified the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Ive considered the 
evidence to decide whether it was fair and reasonable for Wakam to do so. Mr K told 
Wakams loss adjuster about his second claim, so he mustve been aware of it. He also had 
a loss adjuster inspect his roof for storm damage in respect of the second claim, which 
indicates the start of the claims process. Therefore, I think its reasonable that Wakam 
considered Mr K had made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation.
In line with CIDRA, Wakam can avoid the policy and keep the premium, refuse to pay a 
claim, and look to recover any costs its paid on any claim after the misrepresentation.
Wakam confirmed it avoided the policy and kept the premium, so Im satisfied it acted in line 
with CIDRA.
Renovations
Wakam told Mr K that it wouldve refused his claim anyway because hed failed to disclose 
building work he was having done to his house. Mr K said the work was decorative in nature 
and fell outside the policy requirements to notify Wakam.
Theres dispute about how much work Mr K had done before policy inception. Mr K said the 
work the loss adjuster noted was mainly his attempt to mitigate the damage caused by the 
escape of water. Otherwise, he said the work he described was simply to show to the loss 
adjuster that hed maintained his home.
I understand what Mr K is saying about describing historical renovations. However, I think its 
reasonable that Wakam considered the removal of the fireplace, skirting boards and 
floorboards to be more than decorative. Mr K says he only removed those things to prevent 
damage from the water leaking from his radiator. Id expect some reasonable effort to 
mitigate the impact of the escape of water in line with the policy. But in my view the removal 
of floorboards, skirting and a fireplace goes beyond that which might reasonably be 
expected.  Therefore, I cant say it was unreasonable of Wakam to consider the work more 
than decorative and within the policy requirements for Mr K to notify it of the work.
Overall, I think Wakam has reasonably classed Mr Ks misrepresentation as deliberate or 
reckless, avoided the policy and refused to pay the claim for the reasons given here, and in 
line with CIDRA. I wont be asking Wakam to do anything more in respect of Mr Ks 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman