DRN-3026759
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that their application to remortgage their residential property onto a 
buy-to-let (BTL) basis was mis-handled by their broker, Stonebridge Mortgage Solutions Ltd.
What happened
I wont detail the full background to this complaint as it is well known to both sides. Instead I 
will focus on the key moments.
Mr and Mrs H were buying a new property and wanted to remortgage their current property 
onto a BTL basis.
An application was submitted to a lender Ill call B on 12 July 2019, and once B was satisfied 
with all the information it received a mortgage offer was issued on 28 August 2019.
On 12 September 2019 Mr and Mrs H completed on their new property purchase. Theyd 
arranged a mortgage to buy that property with a different lender that Ill call L. That mortgage 
wasnt arranged through Stonebridge.
Coincidentally Mr and Mrs Hs previous residential mortgage (that they were paying off by 
way of the remortgage onto a BTL basis with B) was also with lender L. That mortgage with 
L had an early repayment charge (ERC) if it was repaid on or before 31 October 2019 so it 
seems a decision was made to delay the remortgage until after that date.
As Bs solicitor was preparing to complete the remortgage at the end of October 2019, it said 
there was a problem with Mr and Mrs Hs address. Thats because the mortgage offer in 
August 2019 had been sent to Mr and Mrs Hs old address (that was being remortgaged 
onto a BTL basis), and theyd moved home since then. It was said that a new offer needed 
to be issued showing them living at the new address. Despite B having the information about 
the new address, it said it needed something from Stonebridge about this. 
That information was provided and a new mortgage offer was produced on 16 November 
2019 and the remortgage completed on 29 November 2019.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr and Mrs H made complaints to B, L and Stonebridge. 
To be clear, the only complaint Im dealing with here is the one against Stonebridge, albeit Ill 
need to make reference to the other businesses and complaints as they are relevant in my 
considerations.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said whilst clearly there were delays, the 
BTL remortgage was always intended to not complete until after 31 October 2019, so it is 
only the last month that was an issue. And Mr H had said that the tenants moved in on 
31 October 2019, and L had already agreed to cover the difference in the mortgage payment 
made to it and the one Mr and Mrs H would have made to B had the remortgage gone 
through sooner. She said, that meant, Mr and Mrs H hadnt got an outstanding financial loss 
to be put right as theyd already accepted compensation to cover that from another party.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and said they would be seeking legal advice and making further 
submissions. That was over two months ago, and despite reminders from our investigator 
and a final deadline being set, nothing further has been submitted. I cant keep cases on 
hold indefinitely and so, as that final deadline has passed, Ill now decide this complaint 
based on the information already held on file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. 
Mr and Mrs H have focussed on the brokers behaviour. Theyve mentioned a lie he told right 
at the start of the application, and said he knew theyd moved house despite saying he didnt 
know (amongst others). The broker admitted that he wasnt truthful at the start, provided a 
full explanation about that and apologised to Mr and Mrs H at the time. Im satisfied thats 
enough for that issue.
In terms of whether or not the broker knew Mr and Mrs H had moved, I think it is important to 
keep in mind that a broker is dealing with many mortgage applications at any one time. 
Whilst Mr H made reference in an email to having to pay two mortgages at once, it would 
have been quite easy for the broker not to have realised the significance of that to 
Mr and Mrs Hs individual application as it was just a short reference in one of the emails. In 
any event this complaint doesnt turn on that. I say this because B has provided a copy of its 
contact notes, and those show the broker answered the case requirement of If subject and 
current properties are same  Confirmation of the onward residential address on 29 July 
2019 when he input Mr and Mrs Hs new residential address into Bs broker portal for their 
application. So at that point the broker had done everything they needed to do to make B 
aware of Mr and Mrs Hs new address.
Completion for the remortgage was never going to happen before 1 November 2019 
otherwise Mr and Mrs H would have incurred an ERC of around £4,500 from L.  L has also 
already agreed to pay compensation (for the period 1 November to 29 November 2019) to 
cover the difference in payment to it and the payment Mr and Mrs H would have made to B 
had the remortgage gone through on 1 November 2019. So any financial loss that may have 
been caused due to the delay because of the address issue has already been covered by L. 
Our role is to put a person back in the position theyd have been in if nothing had gone 
wrong; it isnt to put them in a better position. To that end I cant award compensation to 
cover a loss when a different company has already agreed to pay compensation for that 
same issue; that would be betterment.
It is clear things didnt go smoothly, and it isnt in dispute that the broker lied to Mr and Mrs H 
at the start of the process, but he immediately apologised for that. This remortgage was 
never due to go through until 1 November 2019 at the earliest (to avoid Mr and Mrs H 
needing to pay the ERC), so even if the broker did something wrong Id only be considering 
the four-week period until 29 November 2019.
Mr and Mrs H would always have needed to pay two mortgages for the period after they 
decided to complete on the purchase of their new home. They had tenants in the property from 31 October 2019 and that income would go towards the mortgage on the property the 
tenants were living in, and L has already covered any financial loss between 1 November 
and 29 November 2019.
Having considered everything, I cant uphold this complaint as Im satisfied the broker had 
already notified B of the new address, and even if the broker should have done more theres 
no financial loss as that has already been covered by L.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman