DRN-2170023
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Debt Managers (Services) Limited are chasing him for a debt he 
says he doesnt owe.
What happened
In May 2019, Debt Managers bought a defaulted loan debt from the original creditor, and 
sent a notice of assignment to Mr F.
Mr F initially emailed Debt Managers to say that he was not Mr F. He then disputed that the 
debt was his, and asked for a deed of assignment. He explained he was vulnerable and 
asked Debt Managers to contact him only by post.
In response to his complaint, Debt Managers agreed to only communicate with Mr F by post. 
They sent him documents to show the debt was his, but explained that the deed of 
assignment wasnt relevant. They asked to go through his circumstances so they could 
arrange affordable repayments. They put the debt on hold to give him time to review things.
Mr F came to our service. He felt that Debt Managers were harassing him for a debt that 
they couldnt show was his.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained that we couldnt decide the legal enforceability of the debt; only a court could. But 
based on the evidence, this did appear to be Mr Fs debt that Debt Managers had bought. 
He didnt feel that Debt Managers had dealt with Mr F inappropriately, and explained they 
had a valid reason to contact him.
Mr F didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr F would like to make sure that he really does owe the debt to Debt 
Managers, as he wouldnt want to pay the wrong company.
As our investigator explained, whether or not the debt is legally enforceable is a matter for a 
court to decide  thats not something I have the power to determine. Though I would warn 
that if something seems too good to be true, it often is so Id be wary of any online sources 
that make big promises about clearing debts using obscure legal arguments. Id recommend 
seeking properly qualified legal advice before going down any court route.
I can look at whether its reasonable for Debt Managers to chase this debt  and I think it is. 
Ive looked carefully at the evidence, including Mr Fs credit agreement, the statement of 
account, and the notice of assignment. I can see that the account references match, and the 
original creditor wrote to confirm that they sold this debt to Debt Managers.
The loan was for goods due for delivery to Mr Fs address in his name, and the direct debit 
was set up using a bank account in his name. Genuine contact details for Mr F were on the 
account, and correspondence was sent to his address. And Debt Managers say they werent 
told about any dispute with the original creditor. Lastly, Ive not seen any compelling 
evidence to suggest that this is not Mr Fs debt. So I think it is his debt. And so I think its fair 
that Debt Managers are pursuing him for it.
I can understand if there was some confusion for Mr F, as the original creditors name was 
different to the trading name of the place he bought the goods. Further, from his perspective, 
his debt was with the original creditor rather than Debt Managers. But debts can and do get 
sold on  its quite normal. And now that Debt Managers have bought this debt, it means that 
Mr F owes the money to Debt Managers instead of the original creditor.
Debt Managers sent the relevant notice of assignment, which I think is sufficient to show that 
they now own the debt. Its not clear why Mr F also wants to see the deed of assignment, 
which is a private document between Debt Managers and the original debt owner. Debt 
Managers explained that the deed contains sensitive information between them and the 
creditor. Whereas the deed does not contain any of Mr Fs personal data, and Debt 
Managers have no obligation to provide it to him. So I think its reasonable that they havent.
I appreciate that Mr F is in a vulnerable position, and that he found it threatening being 
chased for a debt. But Debt Managers do have a legitimate reason to be getting in touch 
with him, and its reasonable for them to ask Mr F to pay back the debt he owes them. I cant 
see that theyve communicated with him particularly excessively or unreasonably. And since 
Mr F said he was uncomfortable with other forms of communication, Debt Managers have 
now agreed to only speak to him by post, as he asked.
When dealing with a vulnerable customer, I would expect a business to act positively and 
sympathetically. But that doesnt necessarily mean writing off the debt or stopping all 
communication. Here, Debt Managers have agreed to deal with Mr F in writing, asked for his 
consent to tell their staff about his vulnerable situation, put things on hold to give him space 
to work things out, and tried to work out affordable repayments with him. That doesnt seem 
unreasonable in this situation.
I hope I can reassure Mr F that Debt Managers still have a duty to deal with him 
appropriately. He might want to contact Debt Managers to see what assistance they might 
be able to offer him. Ive also sent him the details for charities who can give him free advice 
and help dealing with his debts. And he can always get back in touch with our service as a 
separate complaint if he subsequently feels that Debt Managers arent taking his situation 
into account when working out how to repay the debt.
But as things stand now, Ive not found that Debt Managers have acted unfairly, and I think 
its reasonable for them to ask Mr F to repay the debt he owes.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman