DRN-2412910
The complaint
Mr R complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC. He wants much more compensation than 
Barclays has given him for transactions he disputed.
What happened
On 23 October 2017, three transactions were made on using Mr Rs Barclays debit card. 
They totalled £289.69.
On 7 November, Mr R told Barclays he hadnt made the transactions, and his card had been 
lost or stolen. He asked for a refund. Barclays fraud team investigated but didnt agree. 
In its final response letter, Barclays said that all three disputed transactions had been carried 
out with the genuine card and the correct PIN. So either the PIN had been available with the 
card, or whoever did the transactions knew the PIN. And Barclays pointed out that there had 
been no more attempts to use the card after the three transactions  which was unlikely for 
an unknown third party fraudster. So Barclays confirmed that it was holding Mr R liable for 
the transactions.
In April 2019, Mr R complained again. Barclays wrote to Mr R on 25 April 2019, saying it had 
already replied to, and declined, his complaint.
In June 2020, Mr R complained again. The complaint handler noted on Barclays notes that 
Mr R had told him hed waited 3 years before appealing. The complaint handler also couldnt 
see any original information about the transactions. So he upheld Mr Rs complaint and 
refunded hm with £289.69 and also paid him £100 as an apology for the inconvenience.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with the compensation and contacted this service. He said hed had a 
bad credit score for the las 3 years because of Barclays making an extreme mistake and 
putting me in the life-changing frustrating and agonising position.  Mr R said it had had 
severe effect on his mental health, resulting in suicide attempts and having to rely on 
medication and ongoing mental health treatment. He said it meant he hadnt worked for the 
last few years, and had violated his rights. Mr R said the mental health issues relating to this 
would remain with him forever and Barclays mistakes were disgraceful. He sent evidence 
that he was receiving benefits, and said he could provide contact details for an NHS care 
team, so we could find out his medical disorders and medication. 
Mr R wanted compensation of £25,000,000.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She explained that the original evidence 
used by Barclays in 2017 was no longer available, so shed used the original fraud notes 
from 2017. The investigator noted that Barclays had told us that it had made an error when it 
had refunded Mr R in 2020. As it had been nearly three years since the original disputed 
transactions, the call handler hadnt been able to see anything apart from the disputed 
transactions. But Barclays had in fact made its 2017 decision on actual evidence.
The investigator didnt think Barclays had been wrong to hold Mr R liable for the disputed 
transactions. And she said that although she had no doubt that Mr R had suffered some 
upset which had contributed to his mental and physical health, shed see no evidence to 
show that all Mr Rs conditions were a direct consequence of this sole event. She thought it 
was unlikely that a £289.69 dispute would have been the sole cause. 
Mr R didnt accept this. He said that even if Barclays had made a mistake in its decision to 
reimburse him, thats what theyd done. So he said the payment had been made on the 
basis of all Barclays prior mistakes. Mr R said he was distraught at the investigators 
decision. And he said it was Barclays fault that it had lost lots of evidence and made so 
many mistakes.
Mr R said it was disgusting that the investigator didnt think the £289.69 dispute could be the 
sole reason for his health problems. He said the Barclays complaint handler whod upheld 
his complaint had given him misinformation on a recent call too. Mr R said it was transparent 
that our investigator was taking the easy and safe approach and he was disgusted. 
Mr R said hes actually expecting £250,000 compensation not £25,000,000 as he originally 
said. He asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr R has health problems. Hes told us that hes being looked after by 
the NHS complex care team, and its good to know that he has this ongoing support for his 
health needs.  
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in October 2017 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The 
regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under 
certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an 
extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
Ive seen the complaint notes from Barclays original 2017 investigation. Ideally Id have liked 
to see more evidence about the actual payments, but it often happens that this service 
doesnt have all the evidence wed ideally like to have. When that happens, I consider the 
evidence we do have, and take my decision according to what I think is most likely to have 
happened, in the light of all the circumstances. Thats what Ive done with Mr Rs complaint.
The disputed transactions were carried out using Mr Rs genuine card, which he later 
reported as lost or stolen. But the only way the correct PIN could have been entered for 
those transactions was:
- if Mr R had carried out the transactions himself; 
- if hed told someone his PIN; or 
- if hed kept a written note of his PIN with the card, which hed then lost or had stolen 
with the card.
If Mr R carried out the transactions himself, or it he told someone his PIN, hes liable for 
them. Mr R also told Barclays in 2017 that he hadnt divulged his PIN. And if he had written it 
down and kept it with his card which was then stolen, hed still be liable for the payments. 
Thats because this would generally count as not keeping it secure, which customers are 
required to do. So I consider that Barclays acted reasonably when it refused to refund Mr R, both in 2017 
and 2019. I consider its most likely that Mr R carried out the transactions himself, or that he 
authorised someone else to do so. 
Mr R has argued that whether Barclays made a mistake or not with its July 2020 decision 
upholding his complaint, it still reimbursed him and changed its decision. And he wants 
considerably more compensation for that. 
But my job is to determine whether or not Barclays treated Mr R fairly in relation to his 
disputed transaction complaint. Ive explained why I consider its most likely that Mr R carried 
out the disputed transactions himself, or authorised someone else to do so. So I find that 
Barclays was right to reject Mr Rs complaint in 2017 and 2019. I consider that Barclays 
adviser made a mistake when it upheld Mr Rs complaint in 2020 solely because he couldnt 
see the original 2017 information. But by mistakenly upholding Mr Rs complaint, it wasnt Mr 
R but Barclays who lost out, because it paid him a refund and compensation which it wasnt 
obliged to in the circumstances here. So even if this was confusing for Mr R, I dont consider 
it means that Barclays needs to do any more here, where its been to his advantage.
Barclays advisers mistake doesnt automatically mean that Mr R should get more 
compensation. Ultimately here, I dont consider Barclays had any need to pay Mr R either a 
refund or compensation. But for the avoidance of doubt, I consider that even if Barclays had 
been right to uphold Mr Rs complaint, the refund and compensation would have been fair. I 
realise that Mr R disagrees with that and feels that Barclays should pay much more here. 
But I hope Ive explained why what Barclays has paid here is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I consider its more likely than not that Mr R carried out the disputed 
transactions himself, or authorised someone else to do so, and I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman