DRN-2677242
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she was given unsuitable advice by Windsor Life (now part of 
ReAssure Ltd) to contract out of SERPS (State Earnings Related Pension Scheme). 
What happened
On 6 April 1990 Mrs P started a personal pension with Windsor Life to contract out of 
SERPS. The contributions were invested in a managed fund. The plan ran for a term of 17 
years and matured in November 2007. Mrs P was paid tax free cash of £1,565.61. She 
bought an annuity with the remaining £4,696.82.  
Through her representative Mrs P complained to ReAssure in February 2020 about the 
advice to contract out. The main complaint points were:  
Mrs P had been advised transferring out of SERPS would give her a larger pension 
income in retirement. 
She had little experience or knowledge of pensions or investments. She accepted the 
advice as being in her best interests. 
The adviser had regulatory duties under LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trusts 
Regulatory Organisation) and the common law. Disclosure of all risks and 
alternatives was also required to allow informed consent as confirmed in the 2015 
Supreme Court case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board. 
Investment costs are the most important factor and the most reliable predictor of 
future returns  lower costs mean higher returns. Even seemingly small unnecessary 
costs can compound into significant long term financial detriment. Theres no reliable 
way to select, in advance, high cost funds that will deliver better returns than lower 
cost alternatives. Only a small proportion of fund managers can deliver sufficient 
outperformance to make up for the significant extra costs and those managers cant 
be identified in advance. The client should be informed of all the costs they are 
paying.  
Mrs P shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of a lower retirement income as a 
result of contracting out of SERPS. Had she been warned of that risk, she wouldnt 
have accepted the advice to contract out. 
She shouldnt have been exposed to the risks involved in giving up inflation protected 
benefits and the significant reduction on purchasing power by inflation. She wasnt 
properly informed of the inherent risks involved in the product recommended or all 
the investment costs associated with the recommendation. 
ReAssure initially said the complaint had been made too late but subsequently consented to 
us investigating the complaint. ReAssures position is that Mrs Ps age and earnings at the 
time meant it was potentially beneficial for her to contract out of SERPS. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he said:
Mrs P was 42 at the time of the advice and below Windsor Lifes pivotal age which 
was 43 for females. Mrs Ps income at the time wasnt known (ReAssure no longer 
had the 1990 advice/sale documents) but she was working and from the 
contributions paid into the plan in 1990/1991 it seems shed been earning over 
£4,000 pa, which was above the lower earnings level. She didnt have access to an 
employers pension scheme. 
Without any documentation it was difficult to determine Mrs Ps attitude to risk at the 
time. But it wasnt unreasonable to assume she was a medium risk investor. The 
Managed Pension Accumulator Series O3 Fund she was invested wasnt unsuitable. 
And the charges were low. 
With hindsight Mrs P now feel that she shouldve remained in SERPS. But in 
determining the suitability of advice wed look at the circumstances at the time. Mrs P 
was young enough, earned enough and didnt have access to a workplace pension. 
The fund wasnt too risky and the charges were low. The advice to contract out of 
SERPS into a personal pension plan wasnt unsuitable. 
Mrs Ps representative didnt agree. It said it didnt need hindsight to understand there was 
always a substantial risk that the benefits from the personal pension wouldnt match the 
guaranteed, inflation protected SERPS benefits. It wasnt in dispute that risk hadnt been 
explained to Mrs P. Had it been, she wouldnt have accepted the advice. According to the 
law, the applicable regulators rules and what was considered good industry practice (and 
theres a crucial difference between that and common industry practice) the only fair and 
reasonable outcome is for the complaint to be upheld. Mrs Ps husband had also been 
advised to contract out of SERPS by Windsor Life at the same time and it upheld the 
complaint made on his behalf.  
The investigator responded. He said, in the complaint made to ReAssure, Mrs Es 
representative had referred to the relevant LAUTRO rule and to the common law. The 
booklet which Windsor Life gave to customers at the point of sale referred to an illustration 
that the customer had been given and said that it had been prepared as required by 
LAUTRO. The booklet went on to describe the projected benefits. The investigator explained 
that he was relying on the booklet because the original fact find and other documents were 
no longer available. From what hed seen, Mrs P had been given adequate information about 
what she could expect from contracting out of SERPS. 
The illustrations and projected investment growth figures often appear unrealistic by todays 
standards. But we had to look at what the adviser reasonably knew at the time. It was 
believed in the industry that contracting out could prove beneficial. 
Although he agreed that a client shouldnt be exposed to any unnecessary risk, the 
investment fund was medium risk. We didnt know what Mrs Ps attitude to risk was at the 
time. But the fund allowed some exposure to risk to allow for the prospect of growth. A 
medium risk fund wasnt unnecessarily risky. Nor was it too complex or costly.  
It was difficult to say if Mrs P wouldve acted differently when there was no evidence of what 
was discussed at the time and given the time thats elapsed. Mr Ps complaint may have 
been upheld but his circumstances will be different to Mrs Ps. Each complaint was assessed 
separately on its own individual merits. 
Mrs Ps representative confirmed that an ombudsmans decision was required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigator and the reasons he gave as to why the 
complaint cant be upheld. I dont have that much to add but Ill first set out some 
background to contracting-out of SERPS. 
Until 1988, individuals could only contract-out of SERPS if they were members of a defined 
benefit (final salary) occupational pension scheme. In 1988, the government extended this to 
defined contribution (money purchase) occupational schemes and personal pensions. If an 
individual contracted out of SERPS using an appropriate personal pension, instead of a 
proportion of their National Insurance contributions being used to top up their SERPS 
entitlement, they received rebates that were invested in a fund with their pension provider. It 
was hoped the fund would outperform the SERPS mechanism for growth, based on the 
National Earnings Index.
The government also wanted to give individuals more choice about how their pension was
provided and to shift pension provision from the state to the private sector. The level of
rebate to be applied had to be decided. If the rebates were set too low then the SERPS
pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment in the personal pension. If
set too high, the government would be paying more than it needed to offset the cost of its
SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted out individuals was set by the government after taking
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). The government set rates at a
level so as to encourage contracting-out. The rebate % level was set as standard for all.
That meant it was less beneficial for older people to contract-out, as they had less time
before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates. So, for older people,
the comparative benefit given up in SERPS would likely outweigh that received by
contracting-out.
The government didnt give advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and for
whom it was expected that contracting-out would be beneficial. But it was clear that age was
the key factor. Pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected benefits
from SERPS (based on the National Earnings Index) against their alternative personal
pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely future investment
returns) to decide who would likely benefit.
The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract-out or not changed, were
called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine
whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting-out. LAUTRO
didnt determine the pivotal ages. Product providers established their own pivotal ages
based on their own product terms and charges. Some providers also set minimum earnings
levels.
LAUTRO also had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS. It
required its members to present illustrations for customers considering contracting-out in a
specified way. Firms were required to use a premium for illustration purposes of the
minimum rebate payable for that year. And the projections were set at two specified rates 
what LAUTRO termed real rates of return (taking into account the effects of inflation). The
rates of return were set as 0.5% and 2.5% above the National Average Earnings Index. The
projections were to include charges. If real rates of return werent used, the corresponding
nominal rate of return could be used of 8.5% and 13% inclusive of charges.
LAUTRO also required the annuity illustrated to be on a comparable basis to that the
SERPS pension paid. So the annuity bases had to take into account indexation and would
increase at 3% per annum to mirror the inflation protection offered by SERPS. The annuity
projected would also include a 50% spouses pension, again in line with SERPS.Turning now to Mrs Ps complaint, Im required under DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.6.4R, in
considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of
practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Im 
considering the complaint on the basis of the circumstances, including the advisers
obligations, at the time. 
Mrs P was advised to contract-out in 1990. Windsor Life was a member of LAUTRO at the
time and bound by LAUTROs rules and its code of conduct. While I agree the adviser
also had responsibilities under common law (including not making negligent misstatements; 
to disclose all material information; and to advise with reasonable skill and care), the 
LAUTRO code encompassed the common law duties and imposed higher requirements. So, 
in the main, Ive concentrated on the code. Mrs Ps representative has also referred to a 
court case. But I dont see that case, decided many years later, is directly relevant. But, as 
Ive said, I accept the adviser had to disclose all material information, which would include 
the risks. And if the adviser didnt, that might give rise to questions as to whether Mrs P 
would still have gone ahead. 
The overriding principle was that company representatives were required to exercise due
skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. The code also required best advice to
be given. That included giving the investor all relevant information and using best
endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks involved. Company
representatives, in advising an investor as to the suitability for that investor of any
investment contract, had to have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position
generally, to any rights he may have under an occupational pension scheme or SERPS and
to use best endeavours to ensure that only those contracts which were suited to that investor
were recommended. 
It can be difficult to decide a complaint where, as here, it dates back many years. Often not 
all of the documentation will have survived which, again, is the case here. And 
requirements may have been less stringent than they are now  for example, no suitability 
letter or assessment of attitude to risk will have been required. And, given the time thats 
passed, recollections may have faded. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
As no documentation from the point of sale can be produced, Ive looked first at the factual 
position and which isnt in dispute  Mrs Ps age at the time, her earnings and whether she 
had access to an employers pension scheme. We know that Mrs P was 42. Theres no 
record of what she was earning, but the contributions which were paid into the personal 
pension for 1990/1991 show she must have been earning over £4,000. Her representative 
has confirmed she didnt have access to an employers pension scheme. I think those are 
the main considerations in advising whether or not someone shouldve opted out of SERPS. 
Mrs P met the criteria  she was under the pivotal age, her earnings were above the lower 
earnings limit and her employer didnt offer a pension scheme. 
A pivotal age of 43 for females wasnt out of line with other providers. The historical data Ive 
seen shows that in 1990 a number of major providers pivotal age for females was higher 
than 43. So I dont think Windsor Lifes approach was out of line with the industry generally. I 
note what Mrs Ps representative has said about there being a distinction between common 
industry practice and good industry practice. But, against the background Ive outlined, I 
dont think theres evidence of poor practice on Windsor Lifes part by taking the view, based on her age, earnings and that she didnt have access to an employers pension scheme, that 
Mrs P would likely be better off by contracting out of SERPS.  
But Id agree that whether Mrs P was prepared to take any risk is also relevant too. 
Contracting out of SERPS exposed the consumer to the risk of poor investment growth and 
poor annuity rates. If its clear that someone didnt want to take any risks, it might have been 
better to remain in SERPS to keep what were essentially guaranteed benefits. 
Mrs Ps representative says it isnt disputed that Mrs P didnt want to take any risk. I can see 
that, without any documentation from the point of sale and which might indicate her attitude 
to investment risk, Mrs P might feel that what she says about not wanting to take any risk 
cant really be challenged. But, even if the documentation was still available, it might not tell 
us much about her attitude to risk  at the time there was no requirement to ascertain and 
record it, although some providers did. 
The investigator referred to Windsor Lifes booklet about its contracted out personal pension. 
Ive no reason to think that Mrs P wasnt given a copy at the time. I agree its relevant 
evidence so Ive taken it into account. 
The booklet did refer to contracting out in positive terms. But it didnt say there was any 
guarantee that the personal pension would provide benefits matching or exceeding SERPS.  
The booklet was couched in terms of giving an indication of the possible benefits that might 
be paid from the personal pension to allow a comparison with the SERPS benefits given up. 
As the investigator noted, the information was set out in accordance with LAUTROs 
requirements (as was the personal illustration Mrs P should also have received). I agree with 
the investigator that the booklet gave Mrs P a fair idea as to how contracting out would work, 
and what she might get from the personal pension as compared with the SERPS benefits 
given up. I dont think Mrs P wouldve understood from the booklet there was any guarantee 
shed be better off by opting out of SERPS even though that was the expectation.
On that basis, if she didnt want to take any risk, I cant see that shed have agreed to opt 
out. And I think its unlikely that shed have been told shed definitely be better off by opting 
out when the literature didnt promise that. So Im not going to say that the advice was 
unsuitable because Mrs P was risk averse. And, even if Im wrong about that and there was 
some failure to make Mrs P aware there was a risk she might end up worse off, I agree with 
the investigator that its difficult to be able to say with any certainty now that shed have done 
something different and not opted out. 
The booklet also said that all payments were invested Windsor Lifes Fully Managed Fund. 
I agree with what the investigator said about why that Fund wasnt unsuitable for Mrs P. I 
know that goes back to Mrs Ps attitude to risk, but for the reasons Ive explained, I cant 
say she was risk averse. Bearing in mind her age and the time left until she retired, a 
balanced approach to investing wouldnt be inappropriate and the Managed Fund is 
consistent with that. 
I also note that the booklet, as well as saying that payments were invested in the Managed 
Fund, went on to set out how that Fund was invested: 
Currently the fund is mainly invested in quoted British companies together with a small 
portion in overseas companies. Approximately 50% of the investments are held via unit 
trusts managed by Windsor Trust Managers with most of the rest held directly. The Fund 
Managers can choose from a wide range of investments to achieve the best growth in the 
fund consistent with reasonable security.I appreciate that Mrs P wasnt an investment expert. But, if shed been a cautious investor, 
shed perhaps have expected to see deposit or cash funds mentioned. And the last sentence 
does refer to reasonable security which I think indicates that some degree of risk was 
involved in order to achieve the best growth also mentioned. 
Ive considered whats been said about costs and how they impact on investment 
performance. But it seems that the charges were low and so I cant say the advice was 
unsuitable from a charges perspective. 
Lastly I note that ReAssure upheld a similar complaint on behalf of Mr P who contracted out 
of SERPS at the same time as Mrs P. But, as the investigator said, we deal with complaints 
separately and on their individual facts and merits. The fact that one complaint may have 
been upheld doesnt mean that another, apparently similar, complaint will have the same 
outcome.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman