DRN-1665145
The complaint
Mr E complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) declined his loan application after 
telling him it had been approved. 
What happened
On 13 November 2019 Mr E applied to top up his existing Tesco loan as he wanted to 
purchase a taxi. The application was accepted in principal and Tesco sent Mr E a request for 
some additional information. Tescos letter said Mr E had 30 days to complete his 
application. 
On 13 December 2019 Mr E called Tesco and explained he was away so didnt receive 
Tescos letter until his return. Mr Es documents were received on 14 December 2019 and 
Tesco sent him a letter to say the application had been approved. 
On 15 December 2019 Tesco told Mr E his application had expired and been declined. Mr E 
complained and Tesco responded on 16 December 2019 and apologised for the confusing 
information it had sent. Tesco said that Mr Es application had already expired when he 
called on 14 December 2019. Tesco also said Mr Es application should never have been 
processed as it doesnt lend for business purposes. Tesco explained its criteria had changed 
and Mr E no longer met its lending criteria. Tesco paid Mr E £85 and apologised. 
Tesco sent Mr E another response on 18 December 2019 and agreed to remove the credit 
search from his credit file. Tesco also paid Mr E another £25, taking the total compensation 
paid to £110. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She 
recommended that Tesco increase the compensation offered from £110 to £250. Tesco 
agreed but Mr E said the compensation should be increased to cover the loss of earnings 
hes experienced due to being unable to buy a taxi. As Mr E didnt accept his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr E is annoyed. Tesco has made several errors when looking at his 
loan application. Tesco says Mr Es application should never have been processed because 
it doesnt lend for business purposes. In addition, when Mr E called on 13 December 2019 
the call handler failed to explain he had run out of time to submit documents in support of his 
loan application. On 14 December 2019 Tesco incorrectly wrote to Mr E and said his loan 
had been approved, but that wasnt right. When Tesco looked at Mr Es concerns it then 
failed to say it would take steps to remove the credit search from his credit file. There were 
several errors here and I think all parties agree that Tesco could have handled Mr Es 
application better. Tesco accepted Mr Es application in principal but it asked for additional information. Whilst I 
accept the application should never have been processed as the loan funds were intended 
to be used for business purposes, Tesco had only agreed to accept Mr Es loan in principal 
and subject to further checks. Tesco asked Mr E to review the documents it sent him on 13 
November 2019 and provide additional information so it could review his application. Tesco 
reviewed Mr Es application once it received the information it requested. Im satisfied Tesco 
would have taken the step of declining Mr Es application at an earlier stage if it had received 
the supporting information back sooner. I havent found the delay between 13 November 
2019 and 14 December 2019 was due to an error by Tesco. 
I appreciate Mr E is upset that after approving his original loan application Tesco declined 
the next. But businesses can change lending criteria in line with their commercial judgement. 
Ive looked at Tescos decision to decline Mr Es application and Im satisfied it didnt meet 
the updated lending criteria. As a result, Tescos decision to decline the second application 
was reasonable.
Putting things right
The investigator asked Tesco to increase the compensation offered from £110 to £250 to 
take the impact of its errors into account. Ive considered everything Mr E has told us about 
how the situation impacted him and his ability to earn. As Ive said above, I dont think Tesco 
was responsible for the length of time it took for Mr Es application to be declined. Having 
taken everything Mr E has told us into account, I'm satisfied that £250 is fair in all the 
circumstances so I'm not going to tell Tesco to increase the settlement. I agree with the 
investigator that this complaint should be upheld and that Tesco should pay Mr E £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay Mr 
E £250, less any compensation already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman