DRN-2873207
The complaint
Mr W complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) didnt inform him of potential bonus 
reductions on his pension plan before hed started the process to transfer away. He feels this 
led to the value of his fund falling by around £20,000. 
What happened
Mr W has a Group Personal Pension Plan (GPPP) with Phoenix. He was invested in a with 
profits fund. The pension had a Normal Retirement Age (NRA) of 65. 
In June 2020, as Mr W was approaching his NRA, Phoenix sent a retirement pack which 
explained the steps hed need to take to access his pension. He completed the required 
forms on 6 July 2020. Mr W said he wanted at that time to transfer his Phoenix pension into 
an existing plan in order to consolidate charges and enable his investment plans. Mr W said 
that at no point was he told that the quoted fund value in the retirement pack - £228,269  
could change, even if he passed his NRA. He said his financial adviser was also told that 
this value wouldnt change.
Phoenix said their records showed that they didnt receive the transfer forms until 23 July 
2020. They said theyd written to the provider Mr W wanted his pension funds to be 
transferred to on 24 July 2020 to ask them for the completed Transfer Questionnaire and 
Declaration (TQD). They said the team pended the case at this point. But on 10 August 2020 
they noticed that they needed to chase the TQD. They said that another method that 
couldve been used to process the transfer hadnt been possible as the Date of Birth didnt 
match. Phoenix said that on the 11 August 2020 they called Mr Ws financial adviser to find 
out if Mr W still wanted to proceed with the transfer as the pension fund value had fallen by 
more than 5%. Phoenix sent an email to Mr Ws financial adviser on 12 August 2020 
confirming the new expected transfer value. Phoenix said Mr Ws financial adviser replied 
asking them to explain why the transfer value had fallen by so much. And that hed also said 
hed been told that the bonus or fund value wouldnt change apart from market fluctuations.
Mr W said he had a call from his financial adviser on 11 August 2020 after the adviser had 
been told that his pension fund had reduced by more than 5%. He said neither he nor his 
adviser had been told that the pension fund value could fall. If they had been told, he said he 
wouldve moved the fund before the reduction. Mr W said that Phoenix were supposed to 
have provided him with a service in exchange for his annual fees. But he didnt feel hed 
received a service. And felt hed been treated unfairly. So he complained to Phoenix on 13 
August 2020. 
Phoenix responded to Mr Ws complaint on 19 August 2020. They explained the reason the 
transfer value had fallen. They said it was because their latest review of bonus rates had 
been carried out on 1 July 2020. They gave further information about why the review had 
resulted in a reduction. 
Still unhappy, Mr W asked Phoenix to further consider his complaint. He made the following 
complaint points:
He was unhappy that his transfer value had fallen by around £21,000. He wanted 
Phoenix to add this value back onto his policy so it could be transferred.
He was unhappy that although he completed the required forms on 6 July 2020, 
Phoenix didnt contact him about the fall in value until 11 August 2020.
He felt Phoenix had confirmed that the value of his pension wouldnt change after his 
normal retirement date.
He was unhappy that Phoenix didnt tell him that the policy would be reviewed on 1 
July 2020. He said that if theyd done so he wouldve transferred earlier.
Phoenix issued their final response letter on 8 September 2020. They upheld Mr Ws 
complaint that they shouldve contacted him sooner about the fall in value. And offered him 
£50 compensation on this point. But didnt uphold any of the other complaint points. They 
said that the policy bonuses were reviewed on 1 July 2020, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the contract which allowed bonuses to be reviewed at any time.  They said this 
had resulted in the reduction in the value of Mr Ws pension fund. They said they couldnt 
pay a higher value as that wouldnt reflect the correct amount that would be available for 
transferring as of the date they received the transfer forms, which was 23 July 2020. They 
said the final transfer value used was always the value as of the date they receive the 
completed transfer forms. They confirmed that the pension fund didnt reduce because Mr W 
had passed his normal retirement date. Phoenix also said that if Mr W felt that the delay in 
notifying him about the drop in value had caused any financial loss he should let them know. 
Mr W was unhappy with Phoenixs response, so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She said that each 
annual statement Phoenix had sent Mr W had explained how with profits funds worked. And 
that theyd stated that final bonuses were reviewed at least twice a year, but that Phoenix 
may change them at any time and they arent guaranteed. Our investigator also felt that the 
transfer paperwork Phoenix had sent Mr W in June 2020 had clearly stated that the amounts 
werent guaranteed. She said that as Mr Ws retirement date was after 1 July 2020, the date 
when the bonus rates were reviewed, his transfer value was always going to be affected. 
She considered that Phoenix had acted fairly and in line with the plans terms and 
conditions. She also felt there was no evidence to confirm that either Mr W or his financial 
adviser had been told that the transfer value was guaranteed. Our investigator considered 
the compensation Phoenix had offered Mr W for the delay in telling him about the fund value 
reduction. She felt it was fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
I understand that Mr W has yet to proceed with the fund transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W complains that Phoenix didnt inform him of potential bonus reductions on his pension 
plan before hed started the process to transfer away. So Ive looked at the paperwork Mr W 
has been sent. Phoenix issued a Retirement wake up letter on 19 February 2020. They then issued a 
retirement illustration quote on 19 May 2020. This showed estimated pension savings of 
£229,985.73. And stated: The above Pension Savings Value is not guaranteed. A further 
transfer quote was issued on 22 June 2020. This was the quote for £228,269 that Mr W and 
his financial adviser felt was guaranteed. On 24 June 2020 Phoenix issued a further letter 
covering the transfer. This explained what would happen if the policy went into deferment. It 
said:
Please note when a policy goes into deferment the guaranteed basic sum plus attaching 
bonuses are retained. The policy will no longer participate in the With Profits fund, and 
further bonuses will not be added. Instead the fund value will be placed into a deposit fund 
where it will accrue interest at a rate declared by the Company. The current rate of interest is 
0.5%.
Phoenix said in their final response letter that they could confirm that the values of the policy 
wouldnt change after the Normal Retirement Date. They said this was because the policy 
would be removed from the With-Profits fund at NRD. And would then be placed in an 
interest only account with the fund accruing interest at a rate set by Phoenix. The 24 June 
2020 letter had already confirmed this to Mr Ws financial adviser. 
Mr W has complained that Phoenix had confirmed that the value of his pension wouldnt 
change after his NRD. I acknowledge that they did confirm this. And from what Ive seen this 
is correct. However, this doesnt mean that his transfer value shouldnt have been subject to 
the bonus reduction. This is because the bonus reduction became effective BEFORE Mr Ws 
NRD. And before his request to transfer. Therefore I cant uphold this part of Mr Ws 
complaint, as I have no evidence that Phoenix did anything wrong here. 
The 22 June 2020 letter from Phoenix stated: 
The above figures are not guaranteed, and will be recalculated before the payment is 
made. And:
Key points to consider before you transfer
Final Bonus - The transfer value includes an amount of final bonus allocated to the plan(s) to 
date. If you transfer you will lose your entitlement to additional bonuses. Final bonus 
amounts are not guaranteed.
So, from what Ive seen, the paperwork Mr W relied upon for his transfer value figures was 
clear that the figures quoted would be recalculated before the payment was made. The 
paperwork also explicitly noted that final bonus amounts werent guaranteed.
Ive also reviewed the forms Mr W signed on 6 July 2020, instructing the transfer to proceed. 
These said:
I authorise Phoenix Life Limited to transfer the sum of £228,269.00 not guaranteed
And I can see that Mr W ticked box that said:
Before acting upon these instructions, please warn me or my financial adviser (where 
applicable) if the transfer value has fallen by more than 5% from the figure quoted. I 
understand that, if this box is ticked and the value falls by more than 5% when the actual 
transfer is calculated, you will attempt to contact me by telephone on the daytime number 
provided below. If you are unable to contact me by telephone you will write to me. I am 
aware that this will mean my transfer request will not be processed until I instruct Phoenix Life to proceed.
The forms also said, just below the signature strip and date:
Please remember: The final transfer value may be higher or lower than the amount shown 
above. And:
The amount paid in respect of plan investments will be the value of those investments on 
the day we process the transfer.
Having reviewed the 2020 transfer paperwork and forms, Im satisfied that Phoenix made it 
clear that the transfer value quoted was an estimate. And that the final value would be 
calculated based on the value of the investments on the day they processed the transfer. Im 
also satisfied that the forms made it clear that the final bonus figure included in the transfer 
value wasnt guaranteed. I also note that Phoenix sent Mr W annual statements over the 
years which explained how with profits funds work. And which stated that final bonuses 
would be reviewed at least twice a year. And that Phoenix may change them at any time as 
they are not guaranteed. 
I acknowledge that Mr W told this service that Phoenix had removed the bonus AFTER 
sending the statement. He said if he hadnt been in the process of transferring away he 
wouldnt have been made aware of the final bonus being removed until the next annual 
statement. I agree that this is true, although Mr W couldve requested a fund value update 
from Phoenix at any point. Phoenix review their final bonuses on with profits funds at least 
twice a year. They do this to evenly distribute any profit to plan holders. As our investigator 
noted, if the market doesnt perform well these bonuses are reviewed and reduced as a 
business deems reasonable. The investments must first be used to provide the guaranteed 
benefits of the plans and any additional funds are distributed. Until a with profits plan 
matures the values cant generally be guaranteed for this reason. Based on all the evidence, 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to agree with Mr W that Phoenix didnt inform him of 
potential bonus reductions.
Ill now consider whether Phoenix shouldve told Mr W that his pension plan would be 
reviewed on 1 July 2020. Mr W said that if theyd told him, he wouldve transferred earlier.
From what Ive seen, Phoenix made it clear that regular reviews of Mr Ws pension plan 
would take place at least twice a year. They were under no obligation to let Mr W know 
whether a review would be likely to result in a reduction. If they had told him that the 1 July 
2020 review would result in a reduction, they wouldnt have been treating the rest of their 
with profits customers fairly. I say this because the key to with profits funds is that each 
customer receives a fair value. Based on the evidence, Mr W was unlucky that his normal 
retirement age fell shortly after a review that resulted in a reduction. But Phoenix still acted 
fairly in applying that reduction. Phoenix have explained in detail how they assess the final 
bonus when they make a pay-out. And from what Ive seen, they followed the correct 
process with Mr Ws transfer calculations.
Mr W said that if Phoenix had told him about the 1 July 2020 review, he wouldve transferred 
earlier. Ive explained above why Phoenix couldnt have told Mr W that they were about to 
conduct a review which may result in a reduction. Nevertheless, I also note that the 24 June 
2020 letter Phoenix sent to Mr Ws financial adviser also stated the following: 
Should the member decide to take his benefits before the date this policy is written to, the 
attaching guaranteed basic sum would be reduced accordingly. Any future bonuses will be 
based on the reduced guaranteed basic sum.So it appears that had Mr W decided to transfer earlier, the guaranteed basic sum would be 
reduced. Therefore, even if hed been informed about the potential reduction  which, as Ive 
said, I dont think he shouldve been  its not clear that he wouldve ended up with a better 
transfer value.
From what Ive seen, Phoenix made no errors here and I cant uphold this part of Mr Ws 
complaint. 
Mr W also complained that although he completed the required forms on 6 July 2020, 
Phoenix didnt contact him about the fall in value until 11 August 2020. Phoenix have 
accepted that they couldve informed Mr W more quickly about the greater than 5% fall in his 
potential transfer value. They offered £50 compensation for the trouble and upset they 
caused. And said that if Mr W felt that the delay in notifying him about the drop in value had 
caused any financial loss he should let them know. 
As Phoenix have accepted responsibility here, I need to decide if theyve taken reasonable 
steps to put things right. 
Mr W said that Phoenix only called his adviser on 12 August 2020 to confirm that the fund 
had reduced by 10%. He felt that they should have informed him in July 2020 when they 
received the transfer form. He felt that as hed not been told that the fund had dropped in 
July 2020, the transfer value quoted at the end of June 2020 shouldve been transferred. He 
felt that he shouldve been informed earlier that the fund had dropped. 
Mr W felt that Phoenix didnt deal with his transfer request as quickly as they should have. 
And felt that if they had done the transfer value wouldve been higher. He considered hed 
lost out because Phoenix had been dilatory. But said he was prepared to accept 
compensation of half the amount he felt Phoenix had cost him. 
Mr W also said that although he is now aware that the bonuses werent guaranteed, he only 
found out about the reduction in his transfer value when he tried to transfer away from 
Phoenix. He said he wasnt told about the reduction for over six weeks after it happened. He 
didnt think hed been treated fairly and felt hed been put to a significant disadvantage. 
Phoenix said they have a service standard of ten working days to process incoming 
information. They said that while they did contact Mr Ws chosen provider within this time 
frame, they failed to contact him about the value until outside of the ten working day time 
frame. They offered Mr W £50 as an apology for the trouble and upset caused. They also 
asked him to let them know if the delay in notifying him had caused any financial loss. 
From what Ive seen, Mr W hasnt provided any evidence of financial losses due to the delay 
in notifying him. So, while I acknowledge that he feels hes been significantly disadvantaged, 
I dont have any evidence on which to uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint. While I 
acknowledge that it wouldve been frustrating to find out so late about a big reduction in a 
transfer value, Ive seen no evidence that anything wouldve changed if Mr W had been told 
earlier. I say this because the bonus reduction had already been made before Mr W signed 
the transfer forms. So it was always going to apply. Im also satisfied that Phoenix did take 
reasonable steps to progress the transfer. But accepted that they shouldve notified Mr W of 
the reduction to his transfer value sooner. 
I acknowledge that my decision will disappoint Mr W. But based on the evidence, Im 
satisfied that the £50 compensation Phoenix offered is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. And I dont require Phoenix to take any further action on this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman