DRN-3805202
The complaint
Miss M is complaining that Santander UK Plc gave her incorrect information about a loan it 
had provided her and about the way it had administered the loan.
What happened
In March 2022 Miss M contacted Santander to find out how much still owed it on a loan. 
Santander told her there was £3,367.46 still outstanding on the loan. She asked to pay 
£3,000 towards it and the call handler took the payment. However she then received a 
refund of £2,674.36 direct into her bank account. Miss M called Santander who advised her 
that the loan was now repaid. However, she later got a message to say that Santander was 
looking to take a further direct debit payment of £3,000, but this didnt go through.
Santander now says she still owes around £3,200, which she thinks is unfair. She said she 
used the refund she received to pay off other debts and says she now cant afford to repay 
this loan. Santander apologised for its mistake and offered her £250 in compensation. It also 
cleared £76.01 for the arrears that had built up.
Our investigator thought Santander had made mistakes, but he explained its not this 
services role to fine and punish a business, but to resolve a dispute. And he was satisfied 
that Santander had taken reasonable steps to put things right.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She didnt agree with Santanders explanation of 
what went wrong and maintained Santander had told her the loan had been paid off, so she 
thought it was fair for her to use the money to pay off other debts. She also highlighted that 
Santander took four months to realise its error. She also said the statements were unclear 
as to exactly how much she owed.
As Miss M didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I can understand why Miss M is unhappy with whats happened. She contacted Santander to 
clear the majority of the outstanding balance on her loan, but Santander made a number of 
errors which resulted in her being incorrectly told the loan had been cleared. How these 
errors materialised isnt what I need to decide  the simple fact is they shouldnt have 
happened. Santander shouldnt have refunded the £2,674.36 it did, it shouldnt have told her 
the loan was fully paid off and it shouldnt have taken four months to rectify its mistakes. The 
issue for me to decide, though, is whether its taken fair steps to put things right.
In thinking about this, the starting point would be that Santander should look to try and put 
Miss M into the position shed be in had it not made the errors it did. Had Santander not 
refunded the money it did, Miss M wouldnt have owed it as much as she does now. 
However shes also told us she used this money to pay off some other debts. So, while she 
owes Santander more, she owes the other credit providers less. Ultimately, Im not 
persuaded that shes significantly lost out as a result of whats happened. Im also conscious 
Santander cleared the arrears (£76.01) that built up due to its delays in correcting its 
mistake. So I cant reasonably require Santander to waive the amount she still owes on the 
finance.
However, I think Miss M would naturally have suffered some distress and inconvenience with 
whats happened. She had to call Santander a couple of times to understand whats 
happened. She then found out a few months later that she still owed Santander around 
£3,200, having previously been told that she didnt owe anything. However, Santander has 
already paid Miss M £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
This is in line with what I would have awarded, so I dont think it needs to pay anything 
further.
Finally, I note Miss M has said that shes unsure whether Santander has correctly calculated 
what she still owes on the finance. But I havent seen anything to show that what it says she 
still owes is incorrect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Santander UK Plcs 
compensation offer of £250 plus waiving £76.01 of arrears is fair. I understand its already 
paid this, but it should do so if it hasnt already done so. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman