DRN-4266395
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the advice given by Tuto Money Limited to transfer the benefits from 
her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the 
advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mrs S spoke to Tuto Money in 2015 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. She was 
unemployed at the time and was seeking advice about her pension.
Tuto Money completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Ss circumstances and 
objectives. Tuto Money also carried out an assessment of Mrs Ss attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be very low. 
On 12 October 2015, Tuto Money advised Mrs S to transfer her pension benefits into a 
personal pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that 
she wanted to access her tax-free cash for home improvements and a family
holiday. And Mrs S wanted to be able to leave the fund to her son in the event of her death.
Mrs S complained in 2022 to Tuto Money about the suitability of the transfer advice because 
she said she wasnt informed of the benefits shed be losing by transferring out
of the DB scheme and alternative options werent sufficiently considered. For example, to 
clear her debts, she could have borrowed from friends or family or entered into a debt
management plan.
Mrs S wasnt looking to take any risk with her pensions and had no other assets
to fall back on for her retirement. Mrs S believes shes suffered a loss as a result of the 
advice she was given.
Tuto Money didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said the complaint had been made too late. 
Tuto Money said there had been lots of articles in the press in 2019 about the unsuitability of 
transferring DB schemes. And as Mrs S didnt complain until September 2022, she hadnt 
complained within three years of her knowledge of the point of complaint. Tuto Money didnt 
provide any dated evidence of the articles it referred to, just a google search of 2019 adverts 
for pension mis-selling.
Mrs S referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Tuto Money to pay compensation. The investigator said the complaint had been 
made in time  as there was no evidence Mrs S had seen the articles it referred to in 2019. 
And there was no other compelling evidence to say she shouldve complained earlier. The 
investigator felt the advice had been unsuitable as Tuto Money had failed to demonstrate the 
transfer was in Mrs Ss best interests. And had they explained to her that she would likely be 
better retaining her DB benefits, the investigator thought that Mrs S wouldve accepted this 
advice and not transferred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
jurisdiction
Ive considered whether the complaint was one that we can consider. In doing so Ive 
thought about Tuto Moneys argument as to why the complaint had been made out of time. 
And whether there are any other reasons why the complaint isnt one we can consider.
Tuto Money believes Mrs S ought to have been aware in 2019 that the advice was possibly 
unsuitable as it says there was significant press interest in the matter. Its supplied evidence 
of a google image search for 2019 pension mis-selling. Which shows various adverts and 
articles on the matter. However, there is no evidence Mrs S was aware of these at the time. 
And Im not persuaded that the media and press attention was such that it wouldve reached 
the average person who wasnt actively looking for this information. So I dont think this 
evidence shows that Mrs S was aware or ought to have been aware of her reason to 
complain in 2019. Ive seen nothing else to suggest Mrs S has made her complaint outside 
the timescales allowed.
the merits of the complaint
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
Ive reached my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tuto Money's actions here:
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tuto Money 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Ss best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
Tuto Money carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mrs Ss pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his/her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mrs S was 55 at the time of the advice. The critical yield required to match Mrs Ss benefits 
at age 60 (the normal retirement age of the scheme) was 24%. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.4% per year for 4 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs Ss 
very low attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mrs S 
giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the critical yield was 24%, I 
think Mrs S was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
Mrs S had no significant assets or other sources of income in retirement bar the state 
pension. So her DB pension was of critical importance to her.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Ss best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mrs S required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access her TFC earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age and leave their funds invested until a later date. I say this because 
Tuto Money recorded that Mrs S needed the money to make home improvements and to 
take a family holiday. However, Mrs S didnt own her property and Tuto Money didnt record  
any detail about these plans. It shouldve been established, in light of her precarious 
financial situation and how important her DB pension was to her, what she needed the 
money for and if it was necessary at all.
Mrs S has told us she was in debt at the time  however Tuto Money made no mention of 
this in their reasoning for taking her benefits early. This wasnt part of the advice process but 
had it been considered, Mrs S could for example have taken out a debt management plan 
rather than using her pension to clear these debts.Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs S. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs S might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mrs S about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Tuto Money explored to what 
extent Mrs S was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs S 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to her spouse if Mrs S predeceased him. I dont think Tuto Money made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mrs S. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. In any event, Tuto Money should not have encouraged Mrs S to prioritise the potential 
for higher death benefits through a personal pension over her security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mrs S genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her son, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, I think Tuto 
Money shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Ultimately, Mrs S wanted to leave whatever remained of her pension to her son, which would 
be a lot less than this if she lived a long life and or if investment returns were poor. So, the 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mrs S how much she would ideally like to leave to 
her child, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which 
was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. In reality Mrs S withdrew all her benefits after the 
transfer  and so the advantages of transferring for securing potentially higher death benefits 
were not achieved in any event.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs S. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
The regulator  the FCA, has made it clear within guidance that advisers need to have
understood a consumers investment objectives before making a recommendation. A
request or preference made by the consumer for a particular solution does not in itself
amount to an objective. Advisers are required to understand the consumers actual
investment objectives so that they can advise on a suitable course of action to meet them.
As the investigator pointed out Tuto Money mostly referred to generic stock motives when 
describing Mrs Ss objectives. Theres little if any evidence to indicate these stock
motive objectives were truly of importance to Mrs S to justify the guaranteed benefits
being given up by transferring  particularly given the likelihood Mrs S would be
financially worse off as a result of transferring. Im therefore not
persuaded Tuto Money has clearly demonstrated transferring was in Mrs Ss best interests 
as per COBS 19.1.6G.
Tuto did note that Mrs S had specific objectives such as wanting to take her family on
holiday and make home improvements. However, these specific objectives expressed by
Mrs S didnt displace the need for Tuto Money to provide suitable advice, even if this
challenged the pre-conceived intentions Mrs S appeared to have. The strength ofthese intentions has to be caveated with the fact Mrs S didnt have prior knowledge or
experience of making decisions of this sort. So, she couldnt know for sure whether these
intended actions were in her best interests.
Financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever course of action
a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action to be unsuitable
for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, its incumbent upon them to explain
this  and why.
Mrs S wasnt in a good financial situation when she met with Tuto Money. And its clear from 
listening to her conversations with Tuto Money after she had taken her benefits that she is 
inexperienced when it came to financial matters. She said herself shed not had money 
before and it seems after being advised to transfer she spent much of her pension. Tuto 
Money ought to have clearly set out the benefits of retaining her DB pension and how 
important it would be to her and her families finances. Had it done so I think Mrs S wouldve 
listened as she had sought expert advice  and I think she wouldve retained her DB pension 
and taken her benefits from it at the normal retirement age.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs S. But Tuto 
Money wasnt there to just transact what Mrs S might have thought she wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mrs S needed and recommend what was in her 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs S was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs S was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mrs S shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable (although this wasnt given as a reason), 
and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated 
with her DB scheme.
So, I think Tuto Money shouldve advised Mrs S to remain in her DB scheme. Of course, I 
have to consider whether Mrs S would've gone ahead anyway, against Tuto Money's advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs S wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Tuto Moneys advice. I say this because Mrs S 
was an inexperienced investor with a very low attitude to risk and this pension accounted for 
the majority of Mrs Ss retirement provision  I think the importance of this money to her 
retirement plans ought to have been a cornerstone of the advice. Instead Tuto Money 
advised Mrs S to access this money early to spend on non-essentials. If Tuto Money had 
provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs S, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs S would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. Tuto Money must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mrs S has taken her benefits via various withdrawals from 2015 to 2017. 
However, as per the rebuttals assumptions set out in DISP APP 4, Tuto Money should use 
an assumed retirement age of 60, the normal retirement of the DB scheme. Whilst Mrs S did 
draw her benefits before that age, had she been given suitable advice to remain in the 
scheme, I think she wouldve followed this advice and taken benefits at her normal 
retirement age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tuto Money should:
calculate and offer Mrs S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs S before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs S receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs S accepts Tuto Moneys offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs S for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs S as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tuto Money 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs 
Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Tuto Money Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman