DRN-1769970
The complaint
Mr M has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank) mis-sold him fee-
paying Privilege and Privilege Premier accounts. These accounts were taken out in July 
2008 and November 2009 respectively. 
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and ultimately concluded that both these accounts 
were likely to have been mis-sold to Mr M. But Co-op Bank disagreed, so the matter has 
been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Having done so, I think this 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr M has not said that he did not agree to these upgrades. His complaint more relates that 
he did not understand what he was agreeing to.
Given that this was a non-advised sale Co-op did not need to ensure that the accounts were 
right for Mr M. But importantly, Co-op did need to give Mr M enough information about the 
accounts so that he could make an informed choice as to whether he wanted them.
Co-op has explained that it wouldve done this at the time of the sale. In addition, it has 
explained that it sent out documentation after the sale that wouldve set out the account 
benefits.
In relation to the documentation provided after the sale, I can see that these did set out the 
benefits of the account. However, Co-op had a responsibility to provide Mr M with all the 
important information about the account before he agreed to them. Sending out information 
after a sale does not negate any failings that mayve occurred during the sale.
In relation to the sales process, Co-op Bank was required to provide Mr M with information 
such as the cost, what the accounts included, what Mr M needed to do to use the benefits, 
as well as details about the significant limitations and exclusions on the benefits. This way 
Mr M wouldve been able to make an informed decision on whether the accounts were right 
for him, bearing in mind his circumstances.
As I dont know what exactly happened during the sales of these accounts, I need to 
consider what was most likely to have happened, based on all of the available evidence. And 
having done so, I dont think it was more likely than not that Mr M was given enough 
information to make an informed choice, prior to him agreeing to these upgrades. Let me 
explain why.
At the time of the sale of the Privilege account the main benefits that it came with were 
Worldwide travel insurance and a £100 interest and charge free overdraft. At the time of the 
sale of the Privilege Premier account the main benefits were mobile phone insurance, 
Worldwide travel insurance and breakdown cover. It also came with a £300 interest and fee-
free overdraft facility.
Mr M has explained that he does not drive, did not own a mobile phone at the time of these 
sales and does not travel abroad. The only benefit that Mr M couldve potentially used was 
the overdraft facilities and I have not been provided with anything that shows that he had a 
pressing need for an overdraft at the time of either upgrade. I accept that he went on to use 
the overdraft but my understanding is that the overdraft facility is automatically applied once 
the upgrade takes place so I cant say that Mr M specifically requested an overdraft. So 
overall, I am unable to conclude that the information he was given about features of these 
accounts was sufficiently clear, fair and not misleading.
 
I say this because something must have gone wrong for Mr M to agree to pay a monthly fee 
for accounts which for the most part came with benefits that he cant actually use. Even if he 
did have a specific need for the overdraft benefits that the accounts came with, and I am not 
sure that this was the case, had the cost and the benefits been sufficiently highlighted I cant 
see that he wouldve agreed to either of the accounts.
So despite Co-op saying the cost and benefits wouldve been explained, I cant see that it is 
likely that this was the case and I am satisfied that had the full features of the accounts been 
explained, I dont think Mr M wouldve agreed to either of these upgrades.
So taking everything into account, on balance I dont think Mr M wouldve agreed to the 
Privilege or Privilege Premier account had he been given better information about them. And 
I think Mr M lost out from what Co-op Bank did wrong. Co-op Bank therefore needs to put 
things right.
Putting things right
To put things right, Co-op Bank should put Mr M back into the position he wouldve have 
been in, if he hadnt been sold the Privilege and Privilege Premier account. So Co-op Bank 
should:
  pay Mr M the fees he paid for the Privilege and Privilege Premier accounts; and 
 add simple interest at 8% per year on each of the above amounts from the date he paid 
the fee to the date of settlement; 
If Co-op Bank is able to work out any additional savings Mr M made from holding the 
Privilege and Privilege Premier account and it can show these calculations to Mr M, it may, if 
it wants, deduct this additional saving from any compensation that is paid.
 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Co-op Bank to take off tax from this interest. Co-op Bank 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require The Co-operative 
Bank Plc to do what I have said above to put matters right.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman