DRN-2911258
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Ms jointly-held mortgage with Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited. Although both consumers have brought the complaint, all of our dealings 
have been with Mr M. We originally received two separate complaints, which we merged 
together. Mr M was initially unhappy with this, but has since accepted our reasons for doing 
so, along with an apology and compensation. The main heads of Mr and Mrs Ms combined 
complaints are, in summary, that Kensington:
didnt automatically capitalise lump sum payments;
didnt notify them of changes in the monthly payment;
is charging a disproportionate amount of interest on their monthly payments; 
failed to provide a detailed breakdown of the interest calculated on each monthly 
payment since the mortgage started in 2016; and
didnt acknowledge their complaint in writing, and then failed to respond to it in time.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision issued on 1 June 2021, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate 
the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. That means I dont have to answer all of Mr Ms 
questions or requests for further evidence.
Its for me to decide when I have enough information and evidence to determine a 
complaint, and its for me to decide how much weight I should attach to the evidence 
I do have. We reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the 
courts use in civil cases.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Capitalisation of lump-sum payments
The terms of the underlying mortgage contract dont require Kensington to capitalise 
lump-sum payments. The investigator included the relevant extract from the terms 
and conditions in his assessment of 10 February 2021; for completeness, I re-
produce that extract below:
You can repay all or part of the Loan at any time before the end of the Term in 
accordance with the Conditions. However, if you do repay all or part of the Loan 
before the end of the Term (by making either lump sum or regular overpayments) you 
must pay us the amount of (a) the early repayment charge calculated on the amount 
repaid (as detailed in Section 10 above) and (b) our Expenses in connection with the 
early repayment (as detailed in the Conditions and our Tariff from time to time).
Any repayment will be credited to your mortgage account on the day that cleared 
funds are received by us. For the purposes of working out the amount of interest 
which is owed by you, the Interest for the Interest Period in which the repayment is 
made will be recalculated and credit will be given for the number of days from receipt 
of repayment until the end of the Interest Period in which the repayment is received. 
This means that you will get the benefit of paying less Interest straight away.
I dont know, and wont speculate on, how much of the original contract 
Mr and Mrs M read and assimilated when they took the mortgage out. But I note that 
the mortgage was arranged for them with Kensington by a third-party advisor whom 
Ill refer to here as GPJ. It was GPJs responsibility to ensure the mortgage was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs, and that they understood the terms of the contract 
before they agreed to be bound by it.
Notification of changes in the monthly payment
The historic statement of the mortgage shows there have been two changes to the 
monthly instalment; one in November 2018 to reflect an interest rate change, and 
another in April 2020. In the case of the former. Kensington wrote in September 2018 
to say the rate was due to change and that it would write again shortly with details of 
the new payment. It did so on 8 October 2018; Ive seen copies of both letters. Ive 
also seen a copy of the letter Kensington wrote on 6 March 2020 informing Mr and 
Mrs M of the impending payment change in April 2020.
All of these letters were correctly addressed, Ive no reason to believe they werent 
safely delivered. If they werent, thats not Kensingtons fault, and in any event Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that, irritation factor aside, Mr and Mrs M were 
materially disadvantaged by not receiving the payment change letters.
Interest charged on monthly payments is disproportionate
Ive given this a great deal of thought; the crux of Mr Ms belief that Kensington is 
overcharging interest was summarised in his email to our investigator of 19 January 
2021, when he said:
To try and again explain, for example, please see the figures below. On the payment 
of £874.31, £291.26 interest was charged, yet on the payment of £403.64, £308.70 
interest was charged. I am unable to calculate how this represents an interest rate of 
5.35%.
I dont mean this unkindly, but that comment reveals a fundamental 
misunderstanding on Mr Ms part on how mortgage interest is calculated. The 
monthly interest element of the monthly payment is not calculated as a proportion of 
the capital element of the monthly payment; its calculated on the entire outstanding 
capital balance. That misunderstanding on Mr Ms part is the sole premise for the complaint that 
Kensington has overcharged the mortgage interest. Once it falls away, as clearly it 
must, theres no material evidence to support the allegation of over-charging. 
Failure to provide a detailed breakdown of interest calculations since the mortgage 
started
Mr M has argued that Kensington must provide a detailed breakdown to prove its 
calculations are right; he wrote in December 2020 repeating this request. However, 
Kensington doesnt have to do that; in fact, the reverse is the case. As a starting 
point, its for Mr and Mrs M to provide evidence to support their case. Kensington is 
required to provide information about the mortgage in line with, and in the format 
prescribed by, the requirements of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The evidence shows it has done so.
If Mr and Mrs M have a real and substantive belief (based on something other the 
mis-direction Ive outlined above) that Kensington has over-charged them, it is for 
them to arrange for the accounts to be audited by a suitably qualified and 
independent party. 
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but 
not as the basis for this one. I make the latter point because Kensington would need 
to be presented with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider 
and respond to it. 
Mr and Mrs M would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found 
that were to their detriment, we would then expect Kensington to reimburse any 
reasonable cost of the audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed 
to be necessary. But as things stand, theres no evidence that gives me any reason 
to think that Kensington is over-charging interest on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage. 
Failure to acknowledge and then respond to the complaint in time
This point goes to how Kensington handled what were initially two complaints; one 
made in March 2020, the other in May 2020. Mr M says they were neither 
acknowledged, nor responded to within eight weeks.
Our rules also set out the matters that we can look at as being; regulated activities, 
payment services, lending money, paying money by plastic card, and ancillary 
banking services. In addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary activities 
carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the 
regulator requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to make it a 
regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities 
set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited 
circumstances, for example, if were upholding the underlying complaint that a 
consumer believes was mis-handled. Here, however, I not presently minded to 
uphold the underlying complaint, which means I dont have the power to consider 
Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about the ancillary issue; that is, whether Kensington 
acknowledged and then replied to the complaints in time.For completeness, Ill make the following factual observations. The first complaint 
was made by phone on 18 March 2020, and acknowledged in writing on 
24 March 2020, thus crossing with Mr Ms written follow-up of 25 March 2020. A 
final response was sent in 19 May 2020. The second complaint was made on 
22 May 2020 and a final response sent in writing on 10 July 2020. Both final 
responses were sent within eight weeks, as the regulator requires.
Mr and Mr M contacted us on 17 July 2020, which doesnt suggest to me that they 
were hindered in referring their complaints to us. But the point is moot in any event; if 
I dont uphold the underlying complaints (as Im presently not minded to) then Ive no 
jurisdiction to comment substantively on how Kensington dealt with them.
The provisional decision was issued to the parties by email on 1 June 2021. I gave the 
parties until 15 June 2021 to respond.. Kensington confirmed it had nothing further to say. 
Mr M asked for an extension of time; I granted that, giving him until 29 June 2021 to reply; 
our investigator also furnished him with copies of the two final responses from Kensington. 
Mr M didnt respond by that date but asked for a further two weeks; I considered that one 
further week was fair. 
Mr M was informed that hed need to provide his and Mrs Ms substantive response to the 
provisional decision no later than 5 July 2021, after which date I would review the case and 
issue my next decision whether we had heard from him or not. Mr M contacted us on 
5 July 2021 to say he still wanted more time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive looked at what Mr M said in his email of 5 July 2021; in my view, theres no reasonable 
justification for delaying this matter any further. There are two parties to this dispute, and 
I have to show equal fairness to both. Im satisfied Mr M has been given ample time to 
present his and Mrs Ms further arguments to support their case.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the case again and revisited my provisional decision. Having done so, Ive no 
reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. For the same reasons as I gave in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied there is no basis on which I am able to conclude that 
Kensington has done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs M dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Kensington will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions 
a court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ms right to take legal action against Kensington over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman