DRN-3456496
The complaint
Mrs T complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) who declined her claim, following the 
loss of her mobile phone, under her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs T lost her mobile phone and made a claim. Aviva asked her to provide proof of usage, 
so that it could progress the claim. Mrs T provided the first proof of usage (POU) that 
showed that the phone had last been used on 17 April 2021.  Aviva said that it wouldnt be 
able to progress the claim as she had told them that she last used her phone on the same 
day that she had lost it, which was on 7 September 2021.
Mrs T then provided another POU that showed that the phone had last been used on 17 
September 2021. As this date wasnt the same as the reported date of loss, Aviva told Mrs T 
that her claim would be unsuccessful. 
Mrs T later obtained a further POU which showed that the date of last use was 7 September 
2021. Aviva contacted Mrs Ts network provider, to verify the information on this POU. Aviva 
said that Mrs Ts network provider confirmed that this third POU hadnt been generated by 
them. And on this basis, Aviva told Mrs T that her claim would remain declined. 
Mrs T complained to Aviva as she said that she didnt know why the first POU showed that 
the phone was last used in April 2021, when she had last used her phone on 7 September 
2021. She also said that she had sent Aviva all the information that her mobile phone 
provider had sent her, in order to validate her claim. She didnt think it was fair that she 
should be blamed for incorrect information that had been sent to Aviva from her network 
provider. 
In its final response, Aviva maintained that the claim would be declined, as it believed that 
Mrs T hadnt provided sufficient evidence of proof of usage.
Mrs T was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said it was 
reasonable for Aviva to ask for information that could validate her claim. And reasonable for 
Aviva to have contacted Mrs Ts network provider, once it spotted the differences in the POU 
that Mrs T provided. She concluded that it was fair for Aviva to have declined her claim.
Aviva accepted the view, Mrs T did not. She said that she had provided further evidence 
from her network provider that it had made an error on the first POU with the date on which 
she had last used her phone. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have been provided with and read the policy terms and conditions, evidence of POU 
documents and I have also carefully considered what both parties have said. 
Mrs T lost her mobile phone and reported its loss to Aviva to make a claim. I have 
considered the policy terms and conditions and there are a few obligations under the policy, 
that policy holders must meet, in order for a claim to be successful. But the one that is most 
relevant for this complaint, comes under the things you must do section, it says: provide 
complete and accurate information where reasonably requested by us. Failure to do these 
things may result in your claim being declined or your cover being cancelled. So, Im 
satisfied that Aviva could reasonably ask for information, in order to validate a claim. And 
one of the pieces of information that Aviva asked for was the POU document. The reason 
insurers ask for POUs, is for proof that the phone (that is the subject of the claim) had been 
in the policyholders possession at the time of loss. This is a normal condition of cover and I 
dont think Aviva were unreasonable to ask for proof.
Mrs T told Aviva that she lost her phone on 7 September 2021. But provided a POU 
document from her network provider that showed that the last date of usage was 17 April 
2021. Aviva asked Mrs T for further clarification as to why the two dates were not the same. 
Mrs T then provided a further POU from her network provider which disclosed the last date 
of use as 17 September 2021. Aviva did not accept this either. It explained to Mrs T that it 
would require a POU that showed the date the phone was last used, which would be the 
same as the date of reported loss, namely the 7 September 2021. Having considered the 
policy terms and conditions, I dont think Aviva was unreasonable asking for the information 
so that the claim could be validated. 
Mrs T said that she obtained a further POU and this document showed the date of loss as 
the same as the last day of use  that is  7 September 2021. She further explained that 
there had been a fault with her network providers system, as to why it had generated the 
incorrect POUs. 
Aviva made enquiries with Mrs Ts network provider as it was concerned that the last POU 
Mrs T provided looked different to the usual POU that it normally received. The information 
that Aviva received from Mrs Ts network provider was that the POU was incorrect and 
hadnt been generated by them. So, on this basis Mrs T was told that her claim would remain 
declined. 
I note that by this time Aviva had been given three different POUs, all with differing last date 
of use dates. I think that it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to enquire about the last POU 
provided to it and to rely upon the information that it was given from Mrs Ts network 
provider. And as Mrs T was unable to provide an accurate POU, I think it was fair that Aviva 
declined the claim.  
I have finally considered the additional evidence that Mrs T has relied upon that she believes 
proves that her network provider made an error with the dates on the first POU. I have read 
an email that was sent to Mrs T from her network provider that says as follows:
an incorrect proof of usage was sent to you via email on 20 September via the Proof Of
Usage team. This was sent due to an error on your. account which only showed your 
usage up to 17 April 2021, instead of your true usage supplied by our Stolen Phones team, 
which showed usage from 6 June 2021 - 17 September 2021.
In response to this, I'd like to apologise for the misinformation and I have attached the 
correct proof of usage, provided by the Proof Of Usage team which shows the correct dates.Although I accept that Mrs Ts network provider indicated that the first POU document was 
incorrect (that is the date of last use was said to be 14 April 2021, which was wrong), it went 
on to confirm that the true usage (that had been verified by them) showed that the phones 
last date of usage was 17 September 2021, 10 days after Mrs T said shed lost her phone.  
Consequently, I dont think Aviva was unreasonable in declining Mrs Ts claim, on the 
information that she had provided, as the information couldnt validate her claim.  I 
understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to Mrs T and I sympathise with 
her position, but I cant reasonably and fairly ask Aviva to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman