DRN-3034408
The complaint
Mr M complains about a number of issues with a car he took on hire purchase from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).  
What happened
In February 2020 Mr M took a car from MBFS under a three-year hire purchase agreement. 
The car had been first registered in October 2018 and had a recorded mileage of just over 
8,750. It cost a little over £19,500. 
Almost immediately after he collected the car, Mr M says that the oil warning light was on. 
The dealership investigated and said that the engine had been over-filled. It reduced the oil 
level and offered to provide the next service free of charge. 
Mr M later reported further issues with the car. They included:
excessive brake noise; 
squeaking and creaking;
paint damage; and
upholstery damage
Mr M also asked about previous ownership of the car but was unhappy with the responses 
he received. 
In July 2020 the brakes pads and wear sensors were replaced. In November 2020 a door 
card was replaced, which the dealership said resolved any remaining noise issues. 
Mr M remained unhappy, however, and referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. He thought that, even though the car had not 
been of satisfactory quality at delivery, the issues with it had been rectified. He didnt think 
that MBFS could properly be asked to do any more  and specifically he didnt think it was 
obliged to accept Mr Ms rejection of the car. Mr M did not agree and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the hire purchase agreement was to be read as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality at the point of delivery. That 
means the quality a reasonable person would expect in all the circumstances  which in this 
case include the cars age, price and mileage. Where the consumer examines the goods, 
however, that term does not cover anything which that examination ought to reveal. 
In respect of the number and nature of previous owners of the car, Mr M says this was 
misrepresented to him. A misrepresentation is a statement of fact or of law made by one 
contracting party to another which is untrue and which induces the other party into entering 
into the contract. 
Ill discuss first of all the paint damage and upholstery marks which Mr M complained about. 
The car here was used and was a little over a year old; its mileage was what might be 
expected in the circumstances. It was to be expected that it would have some signs of wear 
and tear, if only fairly minor. I think its likely that these issues were therefore matters which a 
reasonable person might expect. More significantly in my view, however, is the fact that Mr 
M had an opportunity to inspect the car before he agreed to accept it. That is, he could have 
identified any cosmetic damage before going ahead. In the circumstances, I do not believe it 
would be reasonable to uphold his complaint on the basis of these issues. 
The dealership identified the problem with the oil level and rectified it. Mr M says that he 
cannot know how long the car had been driven with excessive oil in the engine, and I accept 
that. There is however no reason to believe that this was any more than a temporary issue  
after all, the oil warning light would have alerted another driver to the problem, just as it did 
Mr M. 
Mr M says too that this issue led to concerns that the car had not been properly prepared 
before he took delivery of it. I can understand his point here  either the car was over-filled 
by the dealership or it didnt notice that someone else had over-filled it. I do not believe 
however that this general concern is a reason to uphold the complaint. And, as he says, 
there is no evidence that this was anything other than a temporary issue or that there were 
any longer-term consequences.
The dealership did identify an issue with the cars brakes. I agree with the investigator that 
this is likely to have meant that it was not of satisfactory quality. But that issue was rectified 
at no cost to Mr M. Similarly, the noise issue from the near-side front door appears to have 
been addressed when the door card was replaced. I am satisfied that the car was brought 
into a satisfactory condition. As that happened with Mr Ms consent and before he indicated 
that he wanted to reject the car, I do not believe it would be fair to allow him to reject it now.   
I turn then to the previous ownership of the car. The advertisement on the dealerships 
website included: 
This vehicle has previously been registered to a business or a vehicle rental company, or 
been used by a business, so it may have been driven by more than one driver.       
Mr M says that he was told that the car had been privately owned. When he received the 
cars V5 document (about a week after he had taken delivery of it), he noticed that it had in 
fact had two previous owners. He sought confirmation that both previous owners had been 
private owners. 
There is no longer any recording of any call before the hire purchase agreement in which 
previous ownership was discussed. But even Mr M has not suggested he was told how 
many previous owners there had been or that both had been private individuals. He was told 
only that the previous owner had been a private individual. That is not inconsistent with the 
statement on the dealers website that the car had at some point been registered to a 
business; it could of course have been registered to a business and then to an individual. 
In the circumstances, I am not persuaded that Mr M was told anything about the previous 
ownership of the car that was incorrect or that anything he was not told meant that he was 
misled. Had he wanted to know how many previous owners there had been and their status, 
he could have asked. He does not suggest however that he did ask that. Overall, I do not believe it would be fair outcome to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman