DRN-3978538
The complaint
Mrs M and Miss R complain about the repairs that AXA Insurance UK Plc made to their car 
following a claim on their motor insurance policy. Miss R is a named driver on Mrs Ms policy 
and represents her in this matter. 
What happened
AXA took Mrs Ms car for repairs following an incident. Miss R was unhappy that a suitable 
courtesy car wasnt provided for three days. AXA paid Mrs M £150 compensation for this. 
When the car was returned, Miss R was unhappy that the rear panels were a different 
colour, and a tailgate light was faulty. She had the wheels rebalanced. She also thought non-
genuine parts had been used in the repairs. 
AXA agreed the panels were different and needed to be rectified. It paid Mrs M £350 
compensation for this. Mrs M didnt want to go back to AXAs garage to investigate the 
tailgate light. So AXA said she could use her own garage and send it an estimate for it to 
consider. But Miss R said this was inconvenient. She wanted AXA to pay off the cars 
remaining finance. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought AXA 
had reasonably compensated Mrs M for her loss of use at the start of the claim. She thought 
it had also reasonably compensated her for replacing the panels with ones of a different 
colour. 
And she thought AXA had responded to Miss Rs concerns about using its approved repairer 
for rectification of the panels and investigation of the tailgate light. She thought AXA wasnt 
responsible for Miss R not providing an estimate from her own garage for it to consider. She 
thought AXA was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to use non-genuine parts. 
Miss R replied that she was also unhappy with the scope of the repairs carried out by AXA. 
She wanted evidence of the repairs it had carried out and assurance that the car was 
roadworthy. She wanted a full structural assessment carried out unless AXA provided 
evidence of one done previously. She said AXA and its agents had lied to her about the 
repairs to the panels, brake light and wheel alignment. She had been stopped by the police 
because of the faulty brake light. She also said AXA had replaced one rear panel that was 
undamaged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs M wants her car fully repaired. And I can see that this is taking 
some time to be done and she is under pressure from the finance company to decide 
whether to keep or exchange the car. 
Miss R has raised several concerns about the service she has received from AXA and its 
approved repairer. But I can only consider the issues that Mrs M and Miss R have already 
complained about to AXA. These are the delay in providing a courtesy car, the mis-matched 
panels and the issue with the light. Miss R would need to raise her further concerns with 
AXA to give it a chance to respond before she brings these to us. 
Miss R said they were satisfied with the compensation for the courtesy car issue. So I wont 
consider that further. 
AXA has accepted that the rear panels dont match the rest of the car and has offered to 
rectify this. I can see from Miss Rs account that it took some effort on her part to persuade 
AXA of the mis-match. She said she didnt want to use AXAs approved repairer again.
So AXA agreed that Miss R could get her own garage to provide an estimate and images of 
the repairs needed for its consideration. AXA also paid Mrs M £350 compensation for the 
trouble and upset this had caused. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with 
our published guidance. And so I think this restores Mrs Ms position and takes into account 
the impact persuading it of the mismatch had. 
Miss R asked why one undamaged panel had been replaced. But I can see that AXA has 
provided an explanation for this. It said the part was welded to the bumper and so needed to 
be replaced.
I can see that Miss R is adamant that the brake light fault is due to the incident. She said it 
was fine beforehand and shes had to replace the lamp twice. She was pulled over by the 
police because of this, but fortunately she wasnt fined or awarded points. I was sorry to hear 
that the experience upset her child.
I can see that its accepted that the light is faulty. But Im satisfied that its for Miss R to prove 
that this is related to the incident. Miss R raised the issue about the tailgate light with AXA. 
But it said this was intermittent and would need a diagnostic to assess whether or not the 
fault was related to the incident. And it agreed for this to be done. 
As our Investigator explained, if this is found to be faulty due to the incident, and so should 
have been fixed, then Miss R can ask AXA to consider the impact this has had. So I think 
AXAs offer is fair and reasonable. 
Miss R said the cars wheels needed to be rebalanced after the car was returned to them. 
But her garage did this for free. So, if this was incident-related, I cant see that this caused 
Miss R any loss. 
Miss R wanted evidence that the car was structurally sound and safe to drive. She said 
AXAs garage had said the incident had caused cosmetic damage only. Miss R said the car 
hadnt been used since she was stopped by the police, and no-one trusted it due to the 
brake light and doubts about its structural damage. 
I think AXA has already made a reasonable proposal to investigate the brake light issue. And 
I think its for Miss R to show that there was further incident-related damage that hadnt been 
repaired. But I cant see that shes provided expert independent evidence to show this. If she 
did, then I would expect AXA to reasonably consider it. 
We expect consumers to take measures to mitigate any losses. And I think Mrs M could 
have accepted AXAs offer to rectify the paintwork and investigate the brake light issue. And 
so I cant reasonably hold AXA responsible for the car not being used or not being fully 
repaired. 
Miss R was unhappy that AXA had told her it may use non-genuine parts in the repair. She 
was concerned that this would affect the cars warranty with the finance provider. I can see 
that the policy does state that non-manufacturer parts may be used in repairs. And I dont 
think this is unusual in motor insurance policies. But AXA has told us that only 
manufacturers parts were used in the repairs. So I think this should reassure Miss R. 
So Im satisfied that AXA has responded reasonably to Mrs M and Miss Rs complaints. I 
think it has provided reasonable resolutions that take into account their preferences. I dont 
require it to do anything further to what it has already offered to do.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman