DRN-2247423
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about Lloyds Bank PLC not telling him that the Help to Buy ISA account 
was ending. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr F wanted to open a Help to Buy ISA account but because this product had been 
closed to new customers before he contacted Lloyds about this, it wasnt available to 
him. I understand that this must have been upsetting for Mr F, but it was a 
government decision to stop the provision of this product to new customers and once 
this had happened Lloyds wouldnt be able to offer this to him.
Mr F says that he should have been informed by Lloyds about the withdrawal of the 
product. Lloyds has explained that the change was advertised on its website and in 
branch as well as being covered in the media. While I note Mr Fs comments about 
not visiting the branch I find that Lloyds actions were reasonable. 
Mr F says that he carries out his banking through the banking app and while I 
appreciate his comments about the information not being provided on the app Lloyds 
has explained that the information was on its website and so was available for online 
users. 
The closing of the Help to Buy ISA account to new customers wasnt due to a 
decision made by Lloyds and I do not find that Lloyds was required to notify its 
customer directly about this. I think it did enough by providing the information through 
its branches and website. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman