DRN-2271438
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) did not 
fulfil his limit order instruction to purchase shares and he has suffered a financial loss as a 
result.
What happened
Mr C has an execution only account with Hargreaves and placed a limit order instruction on 
4 July 2019 at 4.26pm to buy 23,000 shares at a price of 85.4p. The order was immediately 
triggered for execution, but the trade could not be placed as an automatic price was not 
available. The order was then passed for manual execution but due to the size of the order, 
the price was 85.7394p and outside of the limit price of 85.4p. As the live price was higher 
than the limit price, the order was rejected.
Mr C telephoned Hargreaves to ask what had happened with his order but called just as the 
market was closing for the day. Mr C spoke to a dealer who looked at the order and after 
being placed on hold, the dealer explained what had happened to the order. The dealer said 
that it had appeared that the system had worked as designed but he would raise as a 
complaint and someone would investigate and respond to Mr C.
Mr C purchased 22,625 shares the following morning at a price of 87.9p and complains that 
he suffered a financial loss as he had to buy at a higher price and he could not purchase the 
full amount that he had intended to. 
Hargreaves investigated the complaint but they were satisfied that they had handled Mr Cs 
order correctly and rejected the complaint. Mr C complained to this service and one of our 
investigators investigated. The investigator did not think that Hargreaves had made an error 
and had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the service. The investigator 
did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr C has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I agree with the investigators view for much of the same 
reasons and I wont be upholding the complaint.
Mr C has an execution only account at Hargreaves and this means that the investment 
decisions are his and Hargreaves offers no advice as to the suitability of the instructions or 
the times that they are passed. 
This complaint is about what happened within Hargreaves online platform at the time the 
order was submitted and how it was handled by Hargreaves. Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the service which describes how limit orders will be handled. It says:
Hargreaves Lansdown cannot guarantee that your stop loss or limit order will be executed, 
even if the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you have set. If you are not 
comfortable with this, you should not use the service.
After the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you set we will attempt to place 
your deal in the market. However, share prices can change in seconds and if a share price 
has moved by the time we attempt to place your deal it may not be executed at the price you 
have set, or at all.
Limit orders  if the bid price is lower than your sell limit price or if the offer price is higher 
than your buy limit price when we attempt to place your deal, it will not be dealt and your limit 
order will remain pending until it is successfully executed or expires.
Ive looked at the timeline of the limit order placed by Mr C and have the following 
comments:
Mr Cs order was submitted at 4.26pm and it triggered immediately which means that the 
criteria of the limit order had been satisfied for the order to be presented for execution. 
Hargreaves have said that due to liquidity of the stock, the number of shares for Mr Cs 
order could not be purchased using an automatic price. When this happens, the order is 
sent to the dealing desk for manual execution. A dealer attempted to deal but because of 
the size of the order, could only obtain a price that was higher than Mr Cs limit price. As 
the limit price could not be achieved, the order was rejected. 
I think that Hargreaves have acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
service on this point.
During the processing of the order, Hargreaves have said that the instruction would have 
moved within the pending orders section of Mr Cs account. They say that the order 
would have moved from the Open stop loss and limit orders section to the Out of market 
hours, fill or kill and at best orders section. They also say that the pending orders page 
does not automatically refresh so by remaining on this page and without navigating to 
another page, any updates would not appear.
Mr C has complained specifically about this point and says that as it was still showing as 
pending, he thought that it was in the process of being executed. When Mr C called 
Hargreaves following the order, the dealer sought guidance on why the trade hadnt 
been executed and after placing Mr C on hold, explained that the pending page needed 
to be refreshed or alternatively, his browser cache needed to be refreshed.
Mr C has sent a screen print of his order showing as pending and this is within the Open 
stop loss and limit orders section. There is nothing on this page to suggest that it should 
be refreshed in order to update the status so I can see why Mr C would have thought 
that it was still attempting to be executed.
Hargreaves have said that an email confirmation was sent to Mr C at 4.27pm explaining 
that the order had been cancelled and provided Mr C with an option to either submit a 
new instruction or contact them. They also say that the ability to retrieve a live quote was 
also available and his account was updated at 4.27pm allowing time to submit a further 
request prior to the market close.Mr C contacted Hargreaves just before market close so I assume that he was in receipt 
of this email. By the time he spoke to a dealer it was too late to place any trade as the 
market had closed. Clearly, the timing of Mr Cs initial limit order which was placed at 
4.26 meant that any difficulties with the order could result in the order not being executed 
before market close and I must take this into consideration.
From the evidence I have seen, I believe that Hargreaves have acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the service. I need to consider whether the fact that the pending 
order page not refreshing automatically has had a material impact on Mr C not being able to 
take further action. On balance, I think that as Mr C was presented with two options at 
4.27pm, he could have attempted to place a further order. I also think that the timing of the 
order has played a part in this complaint, but this is not something that Hargreaves could 
control and the timing of the initial limit order was down to Mr C.
In summary, I think that Hargreaves have acted in accordance with the terms of the service. 
I know that Mr C feels strongly that as the pending order page didnt refresh automatically, 
he didnt have time to react but I think he was given alternative options to try and place his 
order before market close so Im not going to ask Hargreaves to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman