DRN-2573499
The complaint
Mr B and Miss M have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly 
declined a claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Miss M found water leaking into their home. They arranged for a survey of the roof. 
They also got a builder to quote to repair the damage. Several weeks after finding the leak, 
Mr B and Miss M contacted Great Lakes to make a claim and provided it with the survey 
report and the builders quote. 
Great Lakes investigated the claim, mainly using the documents provided by Mr B and Miss 
M. Great Lakes then declined the claim because it said there werent storm conditions 
around the time the damage was found and it thought the damage was due to wear and tear.
Mr B and Miss M complained to Great Lakes. When Great Lakes replied it maintained its 
decision to decline the claim for the reasons previously given.
So, Mr B and Miss M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said there wasnt evidence of a storm around the time of the damage. She 
also said it was reasonable for Great Lakes to decide that the damage was caused by wear 
and tear.
As Mr B and Miss M did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Great Lakes hasnt defined what it means by a storm in its policy. Where this is the case, 
wed generally say that a storm involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or 
snow. So, Ive thought about this when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or 
around the date of the damage.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the date on which Mr B and Miss M said they 
noticed the damage. Having done so, I didnt see wind speeds or rainfall that would be 
considered storm conditions.
Mr B and Miss M have said they think storms in the months before their claim may have 
caused the damage and it only became apparent when they noticed water entering their 
home. I can see that there were storm conditions on the dates they referred to, the most 
recent of which was several weeks before they noticed the damage. But the policy covers 
sudden, and therefore one-off events, not the build-up of a problem over time.
Ive looked at the evidence that Mr B and Miss M provided to Great Lakes in support of their 
claim to see whether this provided evidence of a one-off storm event. The survey report said:
A defective roof valley is evident, which would allow water ingress during particular weather 
conditions, such as heavy rain accompanied by a westerly wind. The low pitch would be a 
contributing factor.
This is the only reference to weather conditions in the report and described this as heavy 
rain and westerly winds. The policy doesnt cover bad weather, it only covers storm 
conditions.  I havent read anything in the report that suggested that the damage was the 
result of a one-off storm event.
I also note that the report said the issue was a defective roof and a defective valley. The 
survey report also refers to the low pitch potentially being a contributing factor, which is 
about the construction of the roof, rather than a one-off event such as a storm. Ive also 
looked at the builders quote. This doesnt suggest any cause of damage. So, I dont think 
this helps to show that the damage was the result of a one-off storm event.
Ive read the policy to see whether the damage would be covered by any other part of the 
policy, but I havent identified anything that would cover the damage.
Great Lakes declined the claim because it couldnt find any evidence that the damage was 
consistent with an insured peril. I havent seen any evidence to show that the damage was 
the result of a one-off storm event. So, I think that Great Lakes acted reasonably by 
declining the claim. As a result, I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman