DRN-2899725
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy about a loan settlement quotation she received from The Co-operative 
Bank Plc (The Co-op).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss A took a three-month payment holiday and in those circumstances whilst the monthly 
repayments are suspended the account continues to accrue interest. 
The Co-op confirmed to Miss A in April 2020 that the payment holiday wouldnt mean she 
would be required to pay any extra interest.
Ive reviewed the final response The Co-op sent to Miss A on 24 December 2020. That 
clearly sets out how the amount payable before rebate has been calculated and, thereafter; 
the business explained that it applied a rebate calculated in accordance with the relevant 
legislation.
With regard to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement figures should 
be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 
2004; and they are the regulations The Co-op applied. Ive not reviewed that calculation as 
this service is not an auditing service and I think its fair to say the calculation is subject to 
audit at source.
Whilst I understand Miss As concerns I havent seen any evidence from her to suggest 
those calculations are wrong and, on balance, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest 
on that evidence, that the detailed explanation provided by the Co-op is inaccurate.
I can see that the situation wasnt clearly explained to Miss A and that she had to chase the 
business for a comprehensive response. The business offered £75 compensation in respect 
of the distress and inconvenience caused and I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
Im not therefore asking The Co-op to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman