DRN-4090492
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC acted unfairly regarding 
the repayments due for the companys Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) and 
that the bank wrongly defaulted the loan.
What happened
CBILs were part of a government-backed scheme designed to help small and medium-sized 
businesses get finance more quickly if they were adversely affected by the coronavirus 
outbreak.
In May 2020, C signed an agreement with Lloyds for a £100,000 CBIL. Several months later, 
after a review, Lloyds gave notice that it no longer wanted C as a customer, then closed the 
companys bank account. The CBIL remained in place, and the bank opened a loan 
servicing account (LSA) so that C could repay the loan when appropriate.
The CBIL repayments were initially scheduled to start in December 2020, but the parties 
later agreed a six-month repayment holiday. Payments were therefore due to begin in June 
2021.
The first repayment due in June 2021 was missed, as were subsequent monthly 
repayments. In September 2021 the loan account was put in the hands of the banks 
recoveries team.
Cs director complained that Lloyds hadnt given him details of where to pay and didnt 
confirm how much was to be paid each month. To resolve the complaint, C wished to repay 
the loan as agreed, without making it too onerous, and for any negative credit file markers to 
be removed. 
Lloyds didnt think it had acted unfairly regarding the CBIL, but acknowledged some service 
failures. The bank offered £300 compensation.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and concluded that the banks offer was enough to 
settle the complaint. He gave the following reasons, in summary:
Under the terms and conditions of the CBIL, payments had to come from a Lloyds 
account, and the bank made it clear that money would have to be paid into the 
account in order to service the loan. Lloyds automatically opened the LSA for this 
purpose after Cs business bank account was closed in 2020. The bank sent a letter 
to C with the LSA account details. The investigator was satisfied C was aware of the 
account details before payments fell due, because its director communicated with the 
bank about this account as early as January 2021.
In April 2020, C was given a schedule of the monthly capital and interest repayments 
that would be due. Lloyds said it would have sent a revised schedule when the 
repayment holiday was agreed in October 2020, though the Bank of England base 
rate remained the same and so the repayment amount wouldnt have changed. The 
bank hasnt been able to provide a copy of the revised schedule, but the investigator 
said the compensation proposed by Lloyds was sufficient to cover this. 
When the three payments were missed in June, July and August 2021, Lloyds sent 
an LSA statement.to C each time, showing what was owed. Cs director didnt 
contact the bank in response until November 2021. 
The first LSA statement in July 2021 showed the amount that the bank had 
attempted to take for the loan repayment. So this would have made C aware of the 
account details and the amount owed.
Lloyds passed the account to its recoveries team on 3 September 2021, and this 
would have been the date the default was reported to credit reference agencies. 
Banks have an obligation to record accurate information to these agencies. As C 
hadnt made the required repayments, the investigator didnt think Lloyds had made 
any error in reporting the default.
C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Its director made the following points, in 
summary:
C never received any communications whatsoever from Lloyds about the payments 
required until November 2021.
When C took out the loan, it was told that payments would be taken by direct debit 
and details would be notified in advance. Its not the customers responsibility to try to 
work out the payment due.
C may have been aware of the existence of the LSA, but the company had no login 
details or means of accessing the account and therefore no way to repay the loan.
By lodging a default despite Cs obvious willingness to repay the loan, Lloyds has 
acted unfairly and unreasonably.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Im satisfied that C knew, from the time of the repayment holiday agreement onwards, that 
monthly repayments of capital and interest would begin in June 2021. Im also satisfied that 
C knew that Lloyds would take the payments from the LSA. In other words, its my view that 
the company knew it needed to place enough funds in the LSA to cover the repayments 
starting in June 2021. 
C didnt transfer any funds to the LSA, and therefore no repayments could be taken from the 
account.
C knew how much the monthly repayments would have been under the original agreement. 
Lloyds says that it also provided an updated schedule after the repayment holiday 
agreement (showing repayments that would have been almost identical to the original). But 
even if the bank had failed to send that updated schedule, Im not persuaded that the reason C didnt put funds into the LSA was because the company was unsure about how much to 
transfer.
I say that for three reasons. First, C already knew, from the repayment holiday agreement, 
that the monthly capital repayment would be £1,666.67. So the only uncertainty that might 
have troubled C would have been the scale of the monthly interest payment, which in the 
original schedule started at about £180. Even if there had been a large change in interest 
rates over the six-month repayment holiday, the total monthly repayment wouldnt have 
changed substantially, because the interest component of the repayment was such a small 
proportion of the total. But in any event, there hadnt been any change in interest rates at all. 
So I think C could have predicted with confidence that the sum that Lloyds would take as the 
first repayment would be about the same as in the original schedule.
Secondly, C didnt need to know the exact amount that would be taken in the repayment. It 
needed only to ensure there were enough funds in the LSA to cover it. If C had been unsure 
about the precise repayment that would be taken, it could have lodged funds in the account 
at a higher level than necessary, to allow a margin of error. As the only uncertainty was the 
interest component, only a small margin would have been needed, which would have put no 
substantial financial burden on C. So, in my view, C had a simple way of ensuring it wasnt 
caught out by a repayment that was larger than it expected. By contrast, transferring no 
funds at all to the LSA ensured that the repayment would fail.
Thirdly, C took no action to fund the LSA after it received the information from the bank 
about the first failed repayment. Even if C had left the LSA unfunded in June because it 
wasnt sure about the amount required, the banks subsequent communications showed how 
much needed to be deposited to make up for the failed repayment and to meet forthcoming 
repayments. But C didnt take any action for over four months. I therefore conclude that it 
wasnt an absence of information that prevented C from placing funds in the LSA.
C says that it had no login details for the LSA. But Im satisfied that C knew the account 
details  the sort code and account number  and would therefore have been able to transfer 
funds to the account as required. 
Cs director has said Lloyds sent C no communications about the repayments until 
November 2021. But the bank has supplied copies of correspondence that it sent to C from 
17 July 2021 onwards  letters saying that repayments had been missed, monthly 
statements of the LSA, letters asking C to get in touch regarding the resulting unauthorised 
overdraft, and a formal demand letter. They were addressed to Cs business premises, 
which was also its registered company address. Im satisfied that Lloyds sent these 
communications to C.
For all the above reasons, I dont find that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
registering a default of the loan and passing the CBIL debt to its recoveries team.
Putting things right
Lloyds has made an offer of £300 compensation for some service failures. I think this offer is 
enough to settle the complaint fairly in all the circumstances. I dont require the bank to do 
anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £300 to C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman