DRN-3608707
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have unfairly refused to 
refund over £77,000 he lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms (such as Binance and Buy digital asset) using 
his NatWest debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers from his crypto wallets). The payments were requested by him using his 
legitimate security credentials provided by NatWest, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether NatWest should have done more to prevent Mr M 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Having reviewed the transactions, I dont think the payment amounts were enough in 
themselves to have warranted an intervention by NatWest. However, I note that there 
were occasions were payments to the same merchant were made in quick 
succession, such as three payments being made to Binance on 23 October 2020, 
and a further four payments being made on 26 October 2020. Successive payments 
such as this can be indicative of fraud, so I think NatWest ought to have at intervened 
on 23 October 2020 to make further enquiries about the payments.
However, even if NatWest had intervened at this point and asked further questions 
about the nature of the payments Mr M was making, Im not persuaded it would have 
likely stopped him from proceeding or have ultimately prevented his loss.
Mr M had been searching for cryptocurrency investments online (rather than being 
approached out of the blue, as is common in most other cases of investment scams). 
He said he had already carried out checks on each of the fraudulent brokers he was 
dealing with, looking at reviews from previous clients and detailed FAQ pages. He 
said he couldnt find any negative reviews at the time, and that there were also no 
FCA warnings about either of the merchants. 
So, even if NatWest had intervened and provided Mr M with a scam warning/told him 
to carry out further checks, Im not persuaded that any such further checks he could 
have carried out would have revealed that he was likely falling for a scam. Mr M has 
said himself that there was nothing negative about the merchants online at the time, 
and that his trading account was reflecting real time transactions he was making. So, 
there would have been verry little at the time to indicate that he was being scammed 
by the merchants. Therefore, I dont think NatWests failure to intervene can be 
considered the proximate cause of Mr Ms loss in these circumstances, as it seems 
likely he would have proceeded to make the transactions irrespective of any 
intervention by the bank. 
I understand that Mr M had also taken out a loan with NatWest in order fund a further 
£15,000 investment he had to make so as to withdraw his profits. However, he has 
said that he did not disclose the true reason for the loan to the bank, where he told 
them it was for home improvements. As a result, there was no reason for them to 
suspect that he was at risk of being scammed, as it wouldnt be unusual for someone 
to apply for a loan of this amount if they were undertaking home improvements. 
Ive also thought about whether NatWest could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr M reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these 
circumstances, Mr M used his debit card to pay legitimate crypto exchanges before 
the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able 
to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the 
company he paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of Bitcoin). 
Therefore, I do not think NatWest were under any obligation to raise a chargeback 
disputer for Mr M either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, I dont consider NatWest can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for the loss he has sustained. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman