DRN-3158522
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt do enough to help when they 
fell victim to a blackmail / ransom scam.
 
What happened
On 8 June 2021, Mr and Mrs Hs sons vehicle was stolen from their driveway. The vehicles 
contents contained tools and materials worth around £22,000.
Mr and Mrs Hs son received a ransom request the next morning advising that if £3,500 was 
paid, the contents of the vehicle would be returned. The request advised for Police not to be 
involved as Mr and Mrs Hs son would be attacked as his address was known.
Mr and Mrs H agree to help their son and pay the ransom. Mr H attended a branch and 
withdrew £3,500 at 10:30am on 9 June 2021. Mr H then met the fraudster/thief and paid the 
ransom. Mr H was then asked to pay another £3,500 which he refused. Mr H then 
subsequently contacted the Police and reported the matter.
Mr H says he was advised by the Police that banks have protocols in place to prevent or 
stop fraud. So Mr H complained to Barclays about the matter. 
Mr H says that when he was in branch, he was asked the purpose for the withdrawal. Mr H 
says he told the member of staff that he was about to meet up with thieves to give them 
money in order to get his sons equipment back. Mr H considers that as he told Barclays 
what the money was for, the loss should have been prevented, so he considers Barclays 
should be liable. 
Barclays investigated the matter and didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It explained it had 
contacted the branch colleague and obtained their recollection of events. Barclays explained 
that the colleagues recollection was that the withdrawal was to assist Mr Hs son and there 
was no mention of the withdrawal being a ransom to pay thieves. Barclays also considered 
that Mr H had been told by the thieves that there was to be no Police involvement so thought 
it was unlikely Mr H would have said he was paying thieves or was being blackmailed. 
Barclays explained that had there been any concerns that the money was for a ransom  
then the Banking Protocol would have been invoked (whereby the Police are informed and 
attend branch) with the branch colleague being experienced in using the Banking Protocol 
on other occasions.
Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr H referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ultimately, they concluded that had Mr H mentioned the funds were being withdrawn to pay 
off a ransom request to thieves then the Banking Protocol would have been invoked by 
Barclays. The investigator didnt consider Barclays were responsible for the loss.
As Mr H disagreed with the investigators assessment, and as the matter hasnt been 
resolved its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I would like to say that it must have been an extremely distressing situation for 
Mr and Mrs H, and their son. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
What is the Banking Protocol?
Given the rise in fraud and scams over the years, the Banking Protocol was introduced in 
late 2016 with it being rolled out nationwide across the UK in 2017. The initiative was 
brought about through UK Finance, National Trading Standards and local police working with 
Banks and Building Societies. The Banking Protocol allows branch staff, when they suspect 
its customers may be at risk of financial harm or suspected fraud, to directly contact local 
Police who will attend the branch.
The crux of this complaint is clear. Mr H says that he told the branch colleague the purpose 
of the withdrawal  so considers the loss could have been prevented. And Barclays consider 
that had it been mentioned that the withdrawal was for a ransom  then it would have 
invoked the Banking Protocol. 
Barclays has provided the branch mangers comments who confirmed they had spoken with 
the colleague who carried out the withdrawal.
The branch manager has advised:
I have spoken to the member of staff who served the customer and she recalls the 
customer visiting the branch on the 9th.Customer came in to withdraw the £3500 
when he was asked what the money was for he stated that he was giving it to his son 
as he had recently had some tools stolen and wanted to help him out. [Colleague] 
asked if she could transfer the money for the customer instead of him carrying cash, 
however the customer insisted that he wanted the cash and said if we couldnt give 
him cash he would withdraw it from somewhere else.
 
Through the conversation [Colleague] had with the customer at no point did the 
customer state he was being blackmailed he gave the impression that he was getting 
new tools for his son as he was young and helping him out.
[Colleague] had a scam conversation because the customer mentioned he was going 
to try and get the tools back when she questioned him about what he meant 
customer said that he wanted to give the funds to his son so he could get back into 
work. Although a scam message didnt appear [Colleague] had a scam conversation 
with the customer as he was withdrawing a large amount. Customer insisted the money was for his son when she probed him again. Customer 
at no point stated he was being blackmailed. 
[Colleague] is an experienced adviser and is fully aware of the banking protocol and 
has used it many times however on this occasion after speaking with the customer 
she did not have a need to do banking protocol.
Mr H strongly considers that he told the branch colleague what the purpose of the withdrawal 
was. In his response to the investigators opinion Mr H made the following comments in 
response to points raised in the investigators view: 
I told her the money was for the thieves when she asked me if I was spending it 
on anything nice.
She never offered to transfer the money. In fact, she only knew the reason for the
withdrawal of the money when she was holding the cash in the envelope, as it was at 
this point that she asked me what I was spending it on. And it was only at this point 
did I explain what had happened to my son, and the fact that the money was about to 
be given to the thieves.
I told her we were giving the thieves the £3,500 in order to get the tools back 
because my son needed them for his work. I also discussed the fact with her of how 
disgusting it was to have to pay the money over to the thieves to get your own 
equipment back, but my son needed them to earn a living. This was not a very brief 
comment but a discussion with the member of staff.
Mr H has said in response to our investigators opinion that in essence it is implying he has 
lied to the Police, Barclays and our service. And that the branch colleague has told the whole 
truth and that he has lied from the beginning. 
I am mindful that it is not uncommon for there to be a discrepancy in the recollection of a 
version of events or the testimony from both parties as to what happened, or about what was 
said. It is clear there was some discussion around the purpose of the withdrawal and there 
seems to be an agreement that Mr H mentioned that he was going to get the tools back. The 
branch managers statement says Mr H was questioned on this aspect by the colleague, with 
Mr H confirming the funds were for his son. And Mr H says that he spoke about his 
dissatisfaction of having to pay thieves to get your own equipment back.
In situations like this, where I cant know for sure what was said, I have to weigh up, on the 
balance of probabilities, what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
While I recognise Mr Hs strength of feelings on the matter and that this is his genuine 
recollection, I have to also consider, based on the balance of probabilities, that had a 
discussion occurred where Mr H had clearly stated to the branch colleague that he was 
paying thieves, then to my mind  it is more likely than not that this would have alerted the 
branch colleague to invoke the Banking Protocol and alert the Police.
 
I say this because Banks and Building Societies have certain legal obligations to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, organised crime, countering the financing of 
terrorism and preventing fraud and scams. So, in this case, I cant be as satisfied as I would need to be that Mr H informed the branch 
colleague that he was paying thieves. I consider had it been mentioned in such a way as 
Mr H has described, then it is more likely than not, that the branch colleague would have 
invoked the Banking Protocol and contacted the Police. I consider it unlikely that the branch 
colleague would have allowed the withdrawal knowing that Mr H was paying a ransom 
amount and was imminently handing that money over to thieves.
I know this outcome will disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but I cant fairly say that Barclays should 
be responsible for the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman