DRN-4145258
The complaint
Mrs S complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited renewed her motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Hastings automatically renewed Mrs S s policy. She said shed taken out insurance 
elsewhere so she cancelled Hastingss policy. As Hastings had set up the policy, they 
charged her a £20 policy set up fee. 
Mrs S didnt want to pay it. She said that shed asked Hastings not to auto renew. However 
Hastings said theyd searched their records and couldnt find any call or other contact from 
Mrs S before the automatic renewal date. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint because he thought they hadnt treated Mrs S  
unfairly. Mrs S didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings said that that when Mrs S took out the policy they told her it would auto renew. Ive 
looked at her policy documents and they say that too. Hastings explained that this is so that 
cars are not left uninsured. Theyve also shown us that they advised Mrs S of when her 
policy would auto renew and gave her reasonable time to tell them before then if she didnt 
want to renew it.   
Hastings said they had no record of a call or email or other contact from Mrs S before the 
renewal date. They said their policy system recorded every contact made about a policy, but 
despite their searches, they couldnt trace any contact from her. Mrs S hasnt given us 
evidence to show that she did contact Hastings before the renewal date to stop her policy 
renewing. So without evidence of that I cant decide that she did tell them. 
Hastings have shown that theyd given Mrs S notice of the £20 set up fee that applied on 
cancellation. It was in the policy documents they sent her when she took out the policy and 
also shown in her online account with Hastings. We dont think its unfair for insurers to 
charge a set up fee on cancellation, and here the fees are clearly stated, and the amount 
isnt unreasonable. 
So although I can see that Mrs S is likely to feel disappointed, I dont think that Hastings 
have done anything wrong in charging her this fee in these circumstances. This means that I 
dont require them to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
