DRN-1660809
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society (trading at the time as Portman Building 
Society) mis-sold Mrs M and Mr W payment protection insurance (PPI). Although Nationwide 
merged with Portman some years later, Ive referred to Nationwide as the name of the seller.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M and Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint.
Mrs M and Mr W said, We were given standard Mortgage sales information and some 
pressure to take out this particular PPI and at no point were we given ay choice in what PPI 
was offered.
Ive thought about the issue of pressure. The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is 
that I couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were 
said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance 
policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is 
actually something worth having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. And, if someone says another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, it wouldnt be fair to make that other person prove they didnt do 
something wrong  especially when it was so long ago. And so it wouldnt be fair to say 
Nationwide did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this.
Setting aside the issue of pressure, I think the application form itself made clear the PPI was 
optional. Mrs M and Mr W have said they werent given a choice about what type of PPI they 
took. But, as the PPI was presented as a choice, it would have been open to them to say 
no to Nationwides PPI and to go and find PPI elsewhere. Nationwide didnt have a 
responsibility to advise them about alternative sources of PPI  that was a choice for the 
customer to make. I also see that the application form did set out a choice of only taking unemployment cover, or only accident and sickness cover, or everything combined. So there 
was some choice.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M and Mr W as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs M and Mr W to decide whether it was suitable.  But even if it had 
made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an appropriate one in their 
circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs M and Mr W received 
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when they would need 
to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and 
other living costs. This all would have put Mrs M and Mr W in a more secure position, if 
theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been 
told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. The 
basic costs were given, though I dont know how clear overall everything was made. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mrs M and Mr W took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were greater 
than Mrs M and Mr Ws sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high. So full 
information is unlikely to have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs M and Mr W would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying 
for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation 
changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman