DRN-3222158
The complaint
Mr J complains that hes lost out on a one-year fixed rate bond rate (referred to as the 
bond) as a result of incorrect information supplied by SmartSave  a savings platform 
created by Chetwood Financial Limited, referred to as Chetwood or the business. 
Hes also unhappy about the service provided by Chetwood. To put things right, hed like 
£100 compensation. 
What happened
On 26 May 2021, Mr J was given information (about the bond) over live chat. He was told 
that the bond would start from the date the funds were received, and that interest would also 
accrue from the same point.  
    
On 28 May 2021, Mr J discussed the bond with the business again, this time over the phone 
as a result of a call back from the business. During the call, the business conceded that hed 
previously been given the incorrect information about when the bond would start.  The 
business confirmed that the bond would start from the date that the account was opened, 
and that interest would only accrue from the date that money was deposited. 
Unhappy with the businesss initial failure to provide accurate information, Mr J raised a 
formal complaint. In short, he said he was led to believe that hed receive 365 days of 
interest with this product, but this wasnt the case. 
 
The business upheld the complaint. It accepted that it had made an error. It apologised and 
eventually offered Mr J £40 compensation for the incorrect information, and the issues 
experienced by him.  
The business also confirmed that Mr J experienced difficulties with the link which prevented 
him from continuing with the application  and thats because business had subsequently 
decided to withdraw the product from the market.
 
The business also said that Mr J started the application on 28 May 2021, but left it part way 
through, before creating an online account. And it was during this period the business 
decided to withdraw the product. 
Mr J disagreed with the business offer. In short, he said the business error led him to miss 
out on an opportunity to apply for the bond. He also raised concerns about the issues he 
faced whilst trying to open an online account.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business made a commercial decision to withdraw the bond for all customers, as 
a result of which Mr J was unable to apply for the product. The business hasnt acted 
unfairly by doing so. 
Despite what Mr J says, its unclear if he wouldve proceeded with the application 
sooner notwithstanding the incorrect information.
The compensation offered by the business in the circumstances is broadly fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
His initial application, back in 2019, was never progressed into a live account but his 
details were kept on file. 
His latest application was unfairly blocked due the business already having his 
information on file. 
He was incorrectly told that his 2019 bond/account matured but it was never funded 
so couldnt have matured. 
The link on the recent application not working was the businesss error. 
He was asked by the investigator if he wouldve gone ahead with the application to 
which his answer was yes.     
At the request of the investigator, the business provided the following clarification:
When Mr J applied for an account back in November 2019, he created an account 
with the business that was open on its system and ready to be funded. But because it 
wasnt funded, it matured once the funding window had ended. 
On 28 May 2021, Mr J was initially told by an agent that the account matured in 
November 2020. The agent later clarified that the account wasnt funded and due to 
this the account matured, and Mr J replied that this made sense. 
Because Mr J opened an account with the business, his details were held on file. 
According to its privacy policy, it can hold information for up to six years to deal with 
any queries or complaints, and/or up to 10 years to maintain records according to the 
rules and regulations that apply to it.  
At 12:05pm on 28 May 2021, it made the decision to pull the bond in question. Its 
normal for it to decide on the day, its not something thats known for days given the 
nature of the savings market and its competitors rates.  
A link can expire due to product changes in the background, if the customer had 
previously clicked the link or if a customer already has an account and is following an 
old link. However, on this occasion its unable to locate the root cause. 
Despite the link expiring on this occasion, Mr J wasnt prevented from accessing his 
account. 
Mr J was provided with information on 26 May 2020 which he didnt know was 
incorrect at the time and which suggested the bond was more beneficial than it was, 
but this didnt lead to him applying for the bond. In the circumstances, the business 
cant agree that Mr J wouldve done something different if hed been given the correct 
information. 
Mr J contacted the business again after referring his complaint to our service. He 
asked the same questions, and on that occasion, he was furnished with the correct 
information. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion. Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. 
Because the business upheld the complaint, the key issues for me to consider is redress. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr J says, Im unable to safely say 
that the businesss offer of readdress is unreasonable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note Mr Js strength of 
feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support this complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr J, and the busines, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation, 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I also note Mr J is unhappy about the service he received from us and as a result made a 
service complaint. Im aware he has raised concerns about the case not being dealt with 
properly and about delays. He seems concerned about being failed by our service, in the 
same way that he was failed by the business. But Im not here to consider a service 
complaint from him  which is a separate matter  Im only here to consider the complaint 
against Chetwood. 
I note that on 26 May 2021, Mr J made enquiries with the business about the bond that he 
was thinking of investing in. I note he asked about the account opening procedure and about 
when the bond would commence but didnt at the time go ahead with applying for the bond. 
Theres no dispute that Mr J was furnished with incorrect information on that occasion, 
regarding when the bond would start  it wasnt from the date the money was deposited, that 
was when interest would accrue. But Mr J still didnt open an account, even though he 
(presumably) wasnt aware at the time that the information was incorrect. So far as the 
business was concerned, there was nothing stopping Mr J from applying for the account that 
day, if thats what he wanted to do. 
The above notwithstanding, Im aware that Mr J had concerns about when his funds (from 
another maturing bond) would become available, presumably because this would dictate 
when he could fund his account. But in practice, this still didnt stop him from opening an 
account  depositing even a pound  before transferring the balance within the 14-day 
window. Im mindful that on 26 May 2021, the interest rate was also still as advertised. 
I note that two days later on 28 May 2021, following a call back form the business, Mr J was 
furnished with the correct information about when the term of the bond would start and when 
the interest would start to accrue. In other words, the business confirmed that the 12-month 
bond term would start from the date that the account was opened, but interest would accrue 
from the date of any deposit. 
 
I note during the call Mr J said that he was happy to open the account based on the 
information he was provided with on 26 May 2021  even though he didnt  but having been 
furnished with the correct information he wasnt happy to do so, and that it was a waste of 
time because he needed to have a years interest. In the circumstances, and on balance, it could be argued that it was ultimately the availability 
of his funds  that would dictate when hed start to accrue interest  that 
prevented/dissuaded Mr J from opening the account sooner, rather than anything said or 
done by the business. 
Based on what Mr J told the agent, it seems he wasnt terribly keen on opening an account, 
especially as he was unlikely to be able to transfer the balance of his matured funds for 
several days. And if he delayed the opening of his account, to coincide with when the funds 
would be available, he might not get the benefit of the same rate that was on offer at the 
time.  
The above notwithstanding, and despite Mr Js reservations, it seems that on 28 May 2021, 
he still applied/tried to apply for the bond, which would suggest that the incorrect information 
played little if any part in what he intended to do. I also note that he was told by the agent 
that his application still wasnt completed. In any case, Im satisfied that by then he was fully 
aware that he was unlikely to receive interest for the full 12-month term unless he opened 
the account and deposited funds the same day, which was unlikely to happen. 
I note that by the time he came to re-apply for the bond, the product was no longer available, 
and the link had (understandably) expired and was ineffective, because the product  
unbeknown to Mr J  was withdrawn by the business. 
Im mindful that Mr J may have also experienced some earlier difficulties with the link, but he 
managed to gain access through his account  which is what the agent also told him to do if 
he experienced similar issues. Although the business was unsure of the root cause of the 
problem at that stage, I dont think its a reason to uphold the complaint. On balance it seems 
it could be down to some technical difficulties. 
I note Mr J says that as a consequence of the above hes lost the opportunity to fund an 
account, within the FSCS limit and the rate that was originally offered by the business, which 
has since decreased. Be that as it may, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im 
unable to safely that the business is responsible for this. 
A business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to 
decide what products if offers and for how long. So, in the circumstances, I cant blame the 
business for offering a product that it subsequently decided to take off the market. The 
business is within its rights to do so, and its not something I can tell it to bring back.  
I note the business says that at 12:05pm on 28 May 2021, it made the decision to pull the 
bond in question from the market  on balance, Im satisfied it did so independently of any 
complaint raised by Mr J. On balance, I think the timing of the withdrawal is coincidental to 
his complaint, and not something the business wouldve done deliberately to deprive him of 
the opportunity to invest in the bond or cause him distress and inconvenience.  
I note the business also explained that it was normal for it to make these decisions on the 
day, its not something that would be known for days, given the nature of the savings market 
and competitors rates. In the circumstances, I cant blame the business for taking action that 
it thought was right for it to take. 
I appreciate Mr J insists that he wouldve gone ahead with the bond but for the incorrect 
information provided by the business. But as I explained above, he didnt go ahead with the 
application, even when he had an opportunity to do so on 26 May 2021 when he was given 
the impression that interest would accrue from when the account was opened. Based on what the business says, Im aware that Mr J has  since referring the matter to our 
service  gone back to the business to ask the same question about when the bond would 
start and when hed accrue interest. Im aware that he was given the correct information, but 
Mr J still hasnt applied to invest. 
The above notwithstanding, there seemed to be some confusion over the terminology used 
by the busines in its dealings with Mr J. For example, the account can mature, regardless of 
whether or not its funded, once the investment window is up. Based on the telephone call 
between Mr J and the business on 28 May 2020, Im satisfied he was happy with this 
explanation at the time, despite raising the issue again in response to the investigators view. 
Overall Im satisfied that neither this, nor having his details on file  for which the business 
has provided an explanation  caused an issue that prevented Mr J being able to open an 
account when he had the chance, before the business pulled the product from the market.   
I note that Mr J wants £100 compensation, but for the reasons explained above, Im unable 
say that the £40 compensation offered by the business is unreasonable. Given the size of 
the issue, the length of time Mr J was unaware the information provided was incorrect, and 
the impact it had on him I dont think hes entitled to any more compensation. Ultimately, Im 
unable to safely say that the business is to blame for him not being able to invest in the bond 
because it was no longer available.  
I appreciate Mr J will be unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that Chetwood 
behaved unreasonably in this instance such that it should pay Mr J greater compensation.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman