DRN-3417805
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr J complained to Lloyds that its charges had caused him financial hardship and requested 
a refund of charges for the last six years. He was also unhappy as he says Lloyds had failed 
to assist him when he contacted it in 2016. Lloyds couldnt find any record of contact by Mr J 
in 2016 and declined to refund the charges, but offered a financial review to help him 
manage his financial affairs 
Mr J was dis-satisfied with this and brought the complaint to this service
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js concerns and thought that Lloyds shouldve 
realised that Mr J was in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to the 
account from September 2017 because they thought Mr J needed the overdraft to meet 
essential bills. 
Lloyds disagreed  it says it believes Mr Js account activity suggests poor account 
management rather than financial difficulties. 
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision in 10 March 
2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Js 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a 
final decision and both parties have received my decision with Mr J providing further insight 
to his personal and financial affairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Mr J is complaining about the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But 
before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr J if it applied 
any interest, fees and charges to Mr Js account in circumstances where it was aware, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr J was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Mr J fairly and 
reasonably. And overall, I dont think that Lloyds did treat Mr J unfairly or unreasonably. I say 
this because having a detailed look at Mr Js statements they present a somewhat chaotic 
picture and I dont think it can be said from the statements alone that it was clear Mr J was in 
financial difficulty, rather than a mismanagement of his financial affairs. 
Although Mr J spent the majority of time overdrawn, I can also see there were regular and 
sometimes large cash transfers in which bought the overdraft right down and sometimes 
paid it off. And then there would be transfers out  some of which were clearly to pay bills 
and credit cards, while others - and Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements 
over his expenditure - are significant and at times large amounts of non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions such as payments towards a wedding. And from 
around January 2018 I can see a regular standing order of £30 described as savings. While 
this wasnt enough to pay off his overdraft in full, this and cutting back on other non-
committed transactions, I think, wouldve been certainly enough to bring it down and pay it 
off within a reasonable time should he have chosen to do so.
Mr J may has told us that some of the deposits were loans from family and friends and I 
dont doubt this is the case. But there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Lloyds to any potential financial difficulty  you cant tell without 
a clear description of the transactions that the transfers in or out for that matter were loans. 
And the amount being credited to the account each month didnt indicate that there was no 
reasonable prospect of Mr J seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I cant say Lloyds did anything wrong and I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light 
of how Mr Js account was being used
Mr J in his response has furnished me with some further insight into both his personal and 
financial affairs for the period Ive looked at. And although I do sympathise with his position 
ultimately what I needed to see to find that Lloyds ought to have reasonably known Mr J was 
in financial difficulty and stepped in was that it had enough information available to it to 
understand that. And going by Mr Js bank statements and records of contact with Mr J 
alone I cant say it did and therefore I cant say it did anything wrong. 
So I know this will be disappointing for Mr J, but I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and it follows that I do not uphold this 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Js complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman