DRN-3081001
The complaint
Mr A complains about the interest rates that were offered to him by Sainsburys Bank Plc. He 
is also unhappy that he hadnt received a letter letting him know that his fixed rate was 
coming to an end, and about not being able to arrange an appointment with a mortgage 
adviser. 
What happened
Mr A took out a mortgage with Sainsburys in June 2018 for £321,045 on a capital 
repayment basis, over a term of 35 years. His mortgage was taken out on a fixed rate of 
1.49% which was due to expire on 30 June 2020. This rate was due to revert to Sainsburys 
standard variable rate (SVR) which was 4.24% at the time.
Sainsburys sent Mr A a letter in April 2020 letting him know that his fixed rate was expiring 
at the end of June 2020, and that Mr A had until 14 June 2020 to select a new interest rate 
to avoid the mortgage reverting to the SVR from July 2020. Mr A said he didnt receive this 
letter. 
Sainsburys sent another letter to Mr A in June 2020 (which he did receive) which again 
explained his product was coming to an end and it highlighted what Mr As new mortgage 
payment would be from July 2020.  Mr A tried to review his options on Sainsburys website 
but said he had some difficulty doing so. 
Sainsburys managed to get Mr As access working again so he could review payments 
online, but Mr A said the products Sainsburys were offering were not suitable for him as he 
was looking to make changes to the mortgage and didnt want to incur an early repayment 
charge (ERC).
Mr A explained that because he didnt receive the letter in April 2020, he didnt have enough 
time to explore his options, so he wanted Sainsburys to extend his fixed rate. Sainsburys 
said they couldnt do this. 
Mr A also made enquiries to add another family member on to the mortgage, but Sainsburys 
declined this request as they said it was outside of their policy due to lending criteria. 
Mr As mortgage reverted to the SVR in July 2020 and the mortgage was redeemed in 
October 2020. 
Mr A disagreed with what Sainsburys had told him, so he brought the complaint to our 
service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint as she was satisfied with how Sainsburys had dealt with things. 
Mr A responded and said he only received the letter that Sainsburys sent in June 2020 and 
because of the issues with their website, and the Covid-19 pandemic, he didnt have enough 
time to see what other rates were available. He thinks that Sainsburys should have 
extended the term of his fixed rate to allow him additional time to arrange another product. 
In order to resolve this complaint, Mr A would like a refund of the difference in payments on 
the SVR from July 2020 and compensation for not having enough time to consider new 
products.
As Mr A disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As main complaint point stems from not receiving the letter that Sainsburys sent him in 
April 2020, which meant he didnt have enough time to explore his options. Ive looked at this 
letter which was dated 27 April 2020. 
The letter explained that Mr As fixed rate was due to end on 30 June 2020 and he had up 
until 14 June 2020 to request a new product to avoid paying the SVR which was 3.84% at 
the time. The letter also contained an online web address for Mr A to review products 
available and a contact telephone number should he wish to discuss his options.
I appreciate that Mr A has said he never received this letter, but having looked at it, I can see 
it was addressed correctly and sent out to Mr A at his address. We expect lenders to notify 
borrowers when products are due to expire and Sainsburys did this. If Mr A didnt receive 
this  which he said he didnt  we cannot hold Sainsburys responsible for that. They have 
done what we expected them to. 
I can see that Sainsburys sent a further letter to Mr A dated 1 June 2020. This letter 
confirmed that Mr As contractual payment was due to change from July 2020, and it 
highlighted what the new payment would be. Mr A did receive this letter as he then 
contacted Sainsburys on 6 June 2020. 
Having looked at the contact notes that Sainsburys provided, I can see that Mr A contacted 
Sainsburys several times that day to let them know the online website wasnt working. Mr A 
wanted Sainsburys to extend his fixed rate by a couple of months because he hadnt 
received the April 2020 letter and because of Covid-19. Mr A was told this would be unlikely, 
but his request was referred. Mr A was told again that he had until 14 June 2020 to select a 
new product if he wanted one. 
I can see that over the course of the next few days, Mr A contacted Sainsburys and raised a 
complaint as they were unable to extend his fixed rate. Mr A told Sainsburys that he didnt 
have enough time to consider other rates because he didnt receive the letter in April 2020. It 
also appears that Mr A was still having online access issues and was not able to review the 
products that were available to him. I can see from the contact notes that he was able to 
access the products online on 12 June 2020.
Mr A contacted Sainsburys and told them that the rates on offer were not suitable for him 
because he may be selling or remortgaging in the near future and didnt want to incur an 
ERC. He asked to speak to a mortgage adviser but was told due to the pandemic 
Sainsburys were only arranging appointments for those customers who had a change in 
their circumstances. Mr A was told all the products available to him were online. 
Mr A then called on 19 June requesting an appointment as he wanted to add a family 
member to the mortgage. An appointment was made for 1 July 2020. Santander then called 
Mr A on 23 June 2020 discussing adding the family member on the mortgage, and Mr A was 
told that Sainsburys were unable to action his request as it was outside of their lending 
criteria based on individual circumstances. They recommended Mr A may want to seek 
independent financial advice and reminded Mr A again, that his product was expiring soon 
and their SVR was the only variable product they had on offer  if Mr A didnt want to incur 
an ERC. The appointment of 1 July was then subsequently cancelled. Mr As mortgage was 
then redeemed in October 2020.
While I appreciate Mr A would have liked more time to explore other rates available to him, I 
have already commented on the fact that Sainsburys sent out a letter to Mr A in April letting 
him know his product was coming to an end. So I cant agree that Sainsburys delayed anything here. As Mr A didnt receive this letter, the earliest he was aware was from the 
beginning of June 2020 when he received the follow up letter. 
I do understand he had some technical difficulties accessing Sainsburys website in order to 
see what rates they had available, and Sainsburys did report this and at the time said they 
couldnt see anything wrong  but they did request a reset of Mr As access. Mr A did 
manage to access the website on 12 June 2020 but found there were no products available 
to him because he didnt want to incur an ERC. 
Sainsburys explained to Mr A that the only products available to him were those on the 
portal and if he was thinking about selling his property, he could go onto the SVR to avoid 
paying any ERCs. At this point, Mr A still had two days if he wanted to change his product, 
as the deadline to get things into place was 14 June 2020. But he didnt because there were 
no products that he wanted to switch to. 
Even if Mr A received the letter in April, there wouldnt have been any other products that 
would have been suitable for him, because he didnt want to incur an ERC by going onto 
another fixed rate. So the SVR would have been the only option for him in order to avoid 
this. And I accept it would have given him more time to find a suitable rate elsewhere, but 
like Ive already said, I cant hold Sainsburys responsible for the fact he didnt receive the 
letter in April.  
I also wouldnt expect Sainsburys to extend the fixed rate that Mr A was on in order to give 
him more time to find an alternative mortgage provider. Sainsburys did offer other rates but 
not what Mr A wanted at the time.
I appreciate that Mr A was disappointed that Sainsburys couldnt arrange a mortgage 
appointment for him to discuss options because of the limited availability they had at that 
time due to the pandemic.
I know the pandemic had an impact on most people but the same can be said for lenders. 
They were under a lot of pressure and they were trying to operate with limited employees 
and many of them were trying to adapt to different ways of working while trying to primarily 
focus and support their customers who were in financial difficulty. I cant say that they did 
anything wrong in not being able to arrange a mortgage appointment sooner for Mr A. And 
as they already mentioned, the products that were available to Mr A were on their website, 
which Mr A accessed on 12 June 2020.
It wasnt until Mr A wanted to make a change to his mortgage that Sainsburys offered an 
appointment  but they were unable to help based on their lending criteria taking into 
account the change that Mr A wanted to make on his mortgage. Overall, I cant say that 
Sainsburys have acted unfairly or unreasonably in this situation. 
I know that Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied that Sainsburys 
treated him fairly and I cant agree that they should have done anything differently when they 
were not able to offer products that Mr A deemed suitable for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 Maria Drury
Ombudsman