DRN-2025638
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. Mr and Mrs O paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr O in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Os case. 
Ive decided that this PPI policy was not mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage application had a section for PPI. It offered information about the 
policy, then gave Mr and Mrs O the choice to apply for a policy or turn it down. The option to 
apply for PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mr and Mrs O signed 
specifically for PPI, separately to signing the application as a whole to confirm their choices.
The next month, after having some time to think about it, Mr and Mrs O then signed and 
submitted a separate application form specifically for PPI, where they chose exactly what 
kind of cover they wanted. Later, their mortgage offer set out the cost of the policy theyd 
chosen, separately to the cost of the mortgage itself  the PPI was not part and parcel of the 
lending, nor was it a condition of it.
Ive not seen any wider problems with Nationwides sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence showing that Mr and Mrs O were misled in this particular case. So I think that 
Nationwide made Mr and Mrs O aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
they chose to take it at the time.
Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs O tailored advice about buying PPI, so it didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs O clear information 
about the PPI.
Its possible that the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs O about PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, Mr and Mrs O chose to take out PPI, which indicates they 
wanted this type of cover. It looks like Mr O was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, 
and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr O had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and offered 
him more comprehensive cover  especially for when his benefits reduced to just a fraction 
of his normal pay. Mr and Mrs O also had savings, though I understand they were needed 
for a very important upcoming life event. In any case, the PPI meant they could effectively 
protect their savings, instead of potentially having to sacrifice one asset to save another. Its 
also worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment, 
and there was no guarantee that Mr O would have the same benefits or savings available in 
the many years to come. And if Mr and Mrs O had fallen behind on their repayments, they 
couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting their 
home and providing some peace of mind.
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs O could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them off taking out 
the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman