DRN-4041691
The complaint
Mrs D is complaining that British Gas Insurance Limiteds contractor didnt suitably fix a 
blocked water pipe when she asked for assistance through her home emergency policy.
What happened
In October 2020, Mrs D says the tenants in a property she rented out reported that the sink 
would fill with water when the washing machine and dishwasher were being used. So Mrs D 
contacted British Gas for assistance on her home emergency policy. British Gas sent a 
plumber out who says theyd cleared a build-up of fat in the pipework. And it says the 
contractor also advised the tenants that the waste trap needed replacing.
However, in January 2021 the same issue arose again and with a small leak, so Mrs D 
contacted British Gas again who arranged to send out another plumber. The plumber says 
they cleared the blockage and reinstated the water flow. However, four days later the leak 
reappeared  causing damage to the flooring and into the flat below. This time Mrs D 
arrange for a private plumber to come out who said the pipework was still blocked. He also 
said that upon inspection the pipe had been repaired by tting a rubber sleeve over the 1" 
gap between the two waste pipes with a rubber sleeve held on by two jubilee clips. These 
clips were loose and in fact one end was coming off. 
Mrs D paid the plumber £240 for the work and then complained to British Gas as she held it 
responsible for the damage because she said it hadnt repaired the initial issue correctly. 
She says British Gas didnt respond to her complaint so she referred it to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She was satisfied that it was most likely the leak 
occurred because British Gas didnt sufficiently repair the leak and she thought the 
consequential damage arose as a result of that. So she thought British Gas should arrange 
to fix the consequential damage. She also thought it should pay Mrs D £500 in 
compensation.
British Gas didnt agree with the investigator. It said that its contractor had said that Mrs D 
needed to replace the waste trap, but there wasnt anything to show that Mrs D did so. And it 
thought that was likely to be the reason for the issue. It didnt think there was anything to 
show it had caused the damage. It also thought £500 was excessive in compensation. It said 
that there had been a lot of difficulties in contacting Mrs D which is why it said it had taken so 
long to respond to the complaint. It also said that Mrs D should have contacted British Gas 
again when the leak returned instead of instructing a private plumber to do the work.
As British Gas didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that Im conscious Mrs D has raised a number of complaint points. Ive 
read and considered everything shes raised, but in this decision Ive focussed what I 
consider to be the key issue for me to decide  i.e. should British Gas repair the damage 
thats arisen from the leak. While I havent commented on everything Mrs D has raised, I 
assure her that I have considered everything. But our rules entitle me to focus on what I 
think is the key issue to decide.
Ive taken British Gass comments into consideration, but Im most persuaded by the report 
done by the private plumber Mrs D has provided. The key and inescapable fact is that only 
four days has passed from the date British Gas first came out and the same issue has arisen 
again. I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that its most likely that the leak has come 
back because the original issue wasnt adequately fixed.
British Gas has said there isnt anything to show that its contractor fitted the rubber sleeve. 
But I dont think thats relevant here. Mrs D reported a leak and blockage and, under the 
terms of the home emergency policy, British Gas was required to repair the issue. I dont 
think its unreasonable for a consumer to expect a repair to last more than four days. It 
seems to me that the contractor, either didnt locate the actual cause of the issue, or didnt 
adequately rectify the issue. Either way, this caused the leak and blockage to return.
As I said, Ive found the report the plumber appointed by Mrs D to be most persuasive. Hes 
highlighted that the blockage wasnt cleared and clips werent tightened sufficiently. I 
understand British Gass contractor said hed re-established the water flow, but I think its 
clear from this that he didnt adequately clear the blockage and suitably rectify the cause of 
the leak. 
I note British Gas has said that this issue is likely to be down to the fact that Mrs D didnt 
replace the waste trap, but I dont agree. I think its important to note that I havent seen 
anything to show that the issue has reoccurred since Mrs Ds plumber attended. But, even if 
there was a faulty waste trap, I dont believe its likely that this would cause the blockage to 
return within four days. So Im not persuaded the damage from the leak returning was down 
to the waste trap. 
Ultimately, the facts point towards that the original issue Mrs D reported to British Gas wasnt 
rectified, which caused the pipes to get blocked again immediately and for the leak to return. 
And I dont think this would have happened had British Gass contractor fixed the issue as he 
should have done.
Putting things right
I think British Gas should arrange to put the property back to the position it was immediately 
before the leak  this includes rectifying the damage to the ceiling and flooring caused from 
the escape of water. Mrs D also paid her appointed plumber £240 to fix the issue, so it 
should refund this and pay 8% simple interest on this amount from when she paid it until she 
gets it back. I acknowledge British Gas doesnt think it should have to pay this because it 
says Mrs D could have had one of its contractors come out for free. But I dont think its 
unreasonable that shed lost faith in its contractors ability to rectify the issue, given theyd 
failed to do so only four days prior.  And, in any event, this is a loss directly resulting in its 
failure to fix the issue. So I still think it should refund the £240 Mrs D paid to fix the plumbing 
issue.
Finally, I think Mrs D has suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience as a result of whats 
happened. British Gas has said this has been delayed because Mrs D didnt respond to its requests, but I find that it was actually British Gas who took a long time to respond to her 
complaint. Mrs D first raised her complaint around January 2021, but British Gas didnt 
respond to her until July 2021. I can see British Gas had difficulty in contacting Mrs D, but 
this is because it had an incorrect formatting for her email address  I can see it had an extra 
dot at the end of the address. It was also aware that it had the wrong format as it received 
automatic emails setting out as such. And I think it could have reasonably worked out what it 
had wrong.
Ultimately, for the reasons Ive set out above, it was responsible for the issues that arose 
and it took around six months to respond to her complaint. Taking everything into 
consideration, I think £500 is fair compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following to put things right:
1. arrange to put the property back to the position it was immediately before the leak  this 
includes rectifying the damage to the ceiling and flooring caused from the escape of 
water;
2. refund the £240 Mrs D paid to fix the blockage and leak. It should pay 8% simple interest 
on this amount from 19 January 2021 (the date Mrs D paid it) until she gets it back. If it 
thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate; and
3. pay her £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman