DRN-3789018
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he received from Cowgills Wealth Limited (Cowgills) in 
relation to his former workplace pension with Scottish Widows (the SW pension or the 
plan). This was a defined contribution scheme and he was advised to switch this plan to a 
Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) which he says wasnt suitable for him. 
Recently, Cowgills business was taken over by Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot 
Lloyd. This was after the matters complained of here. For ease of reference, I will refer to the 
former business name where relevant.
What happened
In 2015, Mr S transferred two pension plans to a newly created SIPP with Standard Life (SL) 
following a recommendation made by Cowgills. It was recorded in the recommendation report 
in November 2015, that he wanted his SW pension, which was invested in its Consensus 
Pension Series fund, to remain untouched. 
Mr S had been a member of the SW pension but had opted out as he was applying for fixed 
Lifetime Allowance protection. At that time, this meant he could no longer make, or receive, 
contributions into his pension plans without losing this protection. 
Subsequently, Mr S received advice about his SW pension from Cowgills in May/June 2016. 
At around this time, Cowgills recorded details about Mr S personal and financial 
circumstances which included that he was married with children; he had a number of buy-to-let 
properties; and hed a household income of around £200,000 a year. 
Mr S attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed by Cowgills to be moderate (investment risk 3) 
and this was defined as being related to someone who was: prepared to take a moderate 
amount of investment risk in order to increase the chance of achieving a positive return. 
After looking at Mr S circumstances and assessing his ATR/capacity for loss, in its suitability 
report Cowgills gave the following key reasons for giving a recommendation to switch his 
SW pension valued at £82,670 to a SL SIPP:
It would provide greater investment opportunities.
It would provide the opportunity to release funds by way of an income drawdown.
It would consolidate Mr S pensions for ease of administration.
Cowgills noted the yearly cost of the SW pension was 0.38%. The costs of the switch were 
stated to be:
No initial fee for the advice.
A yearly fee of 1% payable to Cowgills for ongoing services.
A 1.27% ongoing annual charge for the recommended SL SIPP and one of its funds 
(the fund). 
Mr S accepted Cowgills recommendation - his SW pension plan was switched to the relevant 
SIPP and invested in the recommended fund.
In 2022, Mr S complained to Cowgills about the advice it gave him about the switch. He said 
the advice wasnt suitable for a number of reasons which included: the funds were too high 
risk for his ATR; he had lost money as a result of the advice; the fund had underperformed; 
and he doesnt recall discussing the relative merits of switching and/or staying where he was. 
Cowgills rejected Mr S complaint saying its recommendation was suitable based on his 
circumstances. Mr S remained unhappy so asked the Financial Ombudsman Service (us we 
our) to look into the matter. In brief, our investigator recommended upholding the complaint 
as he thought the advice by Cowgills was unsuitable mainly due to the increased costs. 
Cowgills disagreed. It reiterated that the suitability report showed there was good reason for 
the recommendation to switch pension providers and so, was in Mr S best interests. It 
corrected the yearly fees due for its service which were in fact, 0.5% not 1%. It also said the 
investigator discounted the consolidation reasoning due to Mr S previous complaint, which 
it didnt think was fair. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision. I contacted 
both parties. I clarified that given Mr S overall pension provision, he was likely to be a higher 
rate taxpayer in retirement. Mr S noted my comments and added nothing further. 
I also set out my initial thoughts to Cowgills, which was that I was intending to uphold the 
complaint for similar reasons given by our investigator but I said I didnt think, on balance, 
that the recommended fund was a match for Mr S ATR. I also clarified the redress that 
should be used  both parties were told of an alternative benchmark that should be used if 
the previous provider did not provide the necessary information. Cowgills acknowledged 
receipt of my initial thoughts but still requested a decision in order to finalise matters. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I understand 
that both parties have raised a number of points during their respective contact with our 
Service. Although I may not mention every point each party has raised, Ive considered 
everything they have said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome 
of the case. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened 
I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities.
As our investigator has said, the regulator (the Financial Services Authority now the 
Financial Conduct Authority) has indicated that as long as there are good reasons for a 
pension switch recommendation, higher fees under the new pension scheme can still be in 
the clients best interests. Looking at the reasons given to Mr S at the time of the advice, 
which Ive summarised above, I cant see this recommendation, on balance, was in his best 
interests. 
The fees Mr S paid to his previous pension provider was 0.38%. So, the recommendation to 
transfer to the SIPP and invest in the selected fund which included a discretionary fund 
management (DFM) service, substantially increased costs even when excluding Cowgills 
ongoing fees, which I understand was, in fact, 0.5%. The increased costs also meant that Mr S would have to take higher risks to mitigate these 
costs. Evidence of this is in the Pension Switch Report dated 3 June 2016 produced by 
Cowgills, which compared both pension plans and the performance of their respective funds. 
And these showed that the only way Mr S couldve been better off by switching into the 
recommended SL SIPP/fund, was with better performance which, even if achievable, came 
with increased risks. 
Mr S ATR (attitude to risk) was assessed by Cowgills as moderate. Cowgills description of 
this ATR related to someone who was: prepared to take a moderate amount of investment 
risk. The recommended SL fund was described as: 
a medium to high-risk strategy targeting a return of cash plus 4% fees 
and charges. The strategy is designed for those who are targeting capital 
growth and are willing to accept a higher degree of volatility. This portfolio 
has a higher exposure to equities in order to provide the potential to reach 
the target returns with a small proportion held in fixed interest securities 
and cash.
Comparing the description of Mr S ATR and the description of the recommended SL fund, I 
dont agree the switch matched his risk appetite. 
Cowgills says Mr S had significant investment experience so understood the increased risks 
he was taking. One of these is the fact that Mr S transferred other pensions into a new 
pension (the SL SIPP) in 2015 which was also on the advice of Cowgills. I dont consider this 
gave Mr S a significant amount of investment experience particularly as it was less than a 
year before the 2016 advice. And it doesnt appear that Cowgills, at the relevant time, 
amended Mr S ATR based on this further experience.
Cowgills provided other reasoning such as consolidation for ease of administration and more 
investment choice. But again, I dont think these factors provided good reason for switching in 
light of the increased costs and the impact this could have on the growth of Mr S pension 
funds. The SW pension had much lower fees and given the relatively modest amount he was 
investing, I cant say it was reasonable to recommend a SIPP with a DFM service. And in 
terms of Mr S having more options when it came to his retirement in the way he withdrew his 
pension income, even if this were correct, he could have stayed where he was until he was 
reaching retirement.
All in all, I dont think the recommendation made to Mr S to switch pension providers, was a 
fair or reasonable one to make. And I think if Cowgills had made a suitable recommendation, 
Mr S would have stayed with his current provider. I say this because less than one year prior 
to this advice, Mr S made it clear he had no desire to move his SW pension to the SIPP into 
which his other pension funds had been transferred. I know hed subsequently asked 
Cowgills for advice about the switch. But in my view, this shows he was dependent on 
receiving suitable advice from someone who was qualified to give that advice. And its very 
rare for someone seeking advice to go against the advice they are given. 
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice. As Ive said, I take the view that Mr S would 
have remained with his previous provider. However, I cannot be certain that a value will be 
obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am satisfied what I have 
set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr S' circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Capital Professional Limited do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Capital Professional Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider (Scottish Widows). If the actual value is greater 
than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater 
than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Capital Professional Limited should also add any interest set out below to the 
compensation payable.
Capital Professional Limited should pay into Mr S' pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Capital Professional Limited is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S' pension 
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the 
plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should 
be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S' actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I think its likely that Mr S would 
be a higher rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the reduction would 
equal the current higher rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able to take 
a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Capital Professional Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken 
off. Capital Professional Limited should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
Standard Life Wealth 
(Wrap SIPP) - 
Portfolio Service 4 
(only the proportion of 
funds that relates to 
the Scottish Widows 
pension switch)Still 
exists 
and 
liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business receiving 
the complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr S' investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Capital Professional Limited should request that the previous provider calculate this value. If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Capital 
Professional Limited will need to determine a fair value for Mr S' investment instead, using 
this benchmark: For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also 
apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of 
the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. The FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S' risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr S would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd which 
at the time of the advice was Cowgills Wealth Limited, to pay Mr S the calculated redress as 
set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman