DRN-1572860
 
The complaint
Miss T says Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as Moneyboat.co.uk (Moneyboat), 
irresponsibly lent to her.                    
What happened 
This complaint is about two short-term loans Moneyboat provided to Miss T between 
October and December 2018. Miss Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 30/10/2018 28/12/2018 2 £200.00 £131.73
2 31/12/2018 30/08/2019 6 £500.00 £152.17
 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ts complaint and thought the loans shouldnt have been given 
because Moneyboats credit checks showed that Miss T was already using other short-term 
credit providers and the borrowing looked unsustainable. 
Moneyboat disagreed and said it wouldnt review a customers financial circumstances in 
such detail at the early stages of a borrowing relationship.  
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss T could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Moneyboat was required to establish 
whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
Moneyboat has given us details it recorded about Miss Ts income and expenditure when 
she applied for loan one. Miss Ts monthly income was £1,649 and her expenditure was 
£760 (plus a buffer of £393 added by Satsuma) which left her with a disposable income of 
£514. The two monthly repayments for loan one was £131.73. So, on the face of it, the 
borrowing looked affordable for Miss T on a pounds and pence basis.
But Moneyboat has also given us a copy of its credit report from the time Miss T applied for 
her first loan. That report shows that Miss T was already in debt at the time of borrowing. 
She had active accounts with five other short-term credit providers as well as other 
unsecured lending. This borrowing would suggest that the lending was unsustainable for 
Miss T and I think the credit report should have caused Moneyboat to reconsider whether it 
was reasonable to have lent to Miss T. 
Moneyboat has said that it doesnt look at a consumers financial circumstances in such 
depth at the early stages of a borrowing relationship. But Moneyboat was already in receipt 
of the information about Miss Ts financial situation and I think it should have used that 
information when considering whether it was responsible to lend to Miss T. 
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint as I dont think the borrowing was 
sustainable at loan one or loan two when Miss T quickly returned for more borrowing  for a 
higher amount and for a longer term  and Moneyboat should put things right.Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Miss T paid on loans one and two;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans one and two from Miss Ts credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat 
must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Ts complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited should put things right as set out above. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman