DRN-3591843
The complaint
Mr P complains about the amount West Bay Insurance Plc deducted for salvage from his 
total loss settlement when he claimed on his motor insurance policy for his damaged pickup.  
What happened
Mr Ps pickup was damaged, so he claimed on his insurance policy with West Bay. West 
Bay reviewed the claim and accepted it. Due to the damage to Mr Ps pickup West Bay 
deemed it, what is known as, a total loss and offered him the market value. 
As Mr P wanted to retain his pickup, West Bay said they would deduct what they would have 
received for Mr Ps pickup from their salvage agents. In total West Bay deducted £1,563.36 
from the total loss settlement of £7,392. Mr P thought this was too much and complained. 
West Bay reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it, they said theyd deducted 23% from 
Mr Ps settlement as this is what they would have received from their salvage agent for Mr 
Ps pickup. Mr P didnt agree and referred his complaint here, he said hed had an 
independent valuation done on his pickup which valued the salvage at 8%. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ps complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He found 
that West Bay had deducted what they would have received for Mr Ps pickup if he hadnt 
retained it when West Bay paid in the total loss settlement. Because of this he didnt think 
West Bay had acted unreasonably even though another engineer had valued the salvage at 
8%. 
Mr P didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has also complained about the valuation West Bay placed on his pickup which has 
been dealt with separately. In this decision Im only considering the amount West Bay 
deducted from the total loss settlement due to Mr P retaining his pickup.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy, like most policies we see, say West Bay will own 
the vehicle upon paying out the market value following a total loss claim. When an insurer 
retains the vehicle its usual for them to sell them through an appointed salvage agent, 
because of this, insurers have agreements in place with their salvage agents on how much 
they will receive for a vehicle. 
As Mr P wished to retain his pickup, it meant West Bay would lose out on the amount of 
money their salvage agent would pay them for it. Because of this West Bay deducted this 
amount from what they paid Mr P. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to make this 
deduction as it wouldnt be fair for West Bay to lose out on this money because Mr P kept his 
pickup. 
Ive reviewed the rates West Bay have agreed with their salvage agent and Im satisfied 
theyve deducted an amount in line with this. So, Im not persuaded theyve deducted more 
than they would have received. I understand Mr P believes the salvage amount should be 
around 8% due to that being the amount listed on another engineers report. While that might 
be the amount that engineer valued Mr Ps salvage at it doesnt mean thats the rate West 
Bay have negotiated with their chosen salvage agent. Im therefore not persuaded this 
shows West Bay have been unreasonable in what theyve deducted. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman