DRN-2135518
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint concerns how AmTrust International Underwriters DAC (AmTrust) 
handled a claim on his GAP insurance policy.
What happened
I sent the parties a provisional decision earlier this month. In that decision, I explained why I 
was minded to uphold the complaint and require AmTrust to pay Mr N £300 compensation. 
The brief circumstances that led to the complaint were that AmTrust had taken an 
unreasonable amount of time to settle Mr Ns insurance claim after accepting it was a valid 
claim. Mr N chased AmTrust several times for payment, but it didnt explain why things were 
delayed or when he could expect to receive payment. This was against the timeline in the 
policy of settling claims within 10 working days. Instead, payment came around 6/7 weeks 
after AmTrust had all the necessary information.
I explained my thoughts around why AmTrusts service was poor; Mr N instigated nearly all 
contact; AmTrust didnt give meaningful updates; and this led to Mr N having to make more 
contact with AmTrust. Ultimately, Mr N thought more compensation was fair, but I explained 
that there wasnt any evidence to show Mr N had suffered additional financial losses. So, 
taking everything into account, I was satisfied £300 fairly reflected the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the lack of meaningful updates from AmTrust to Mr N.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AmTrust responded to say it thought my compensation award was high, but it would agree to 
pay £300. Mr N didnt add to the information hed already provided.
Having thought carefully about Mr Ns complaint Im not persuaded to reach a different 
outcome to that in my provisional decision.
AmTrust had a duty to handle Mr Ns claim promptly and fairly and settle it promptly once the 
terms were agreed. Terms were eventually agreed around a month after claim notification. 
And it took around a further three weeks to issue payment. The claim was straightforward 
but what delayed the decision and payment appears to have been a high volume of claims 
and unforeseeable staff absence. But this wasnt explained to Mr N in a timely or meaningful 
way and as a result he initiated numerous contacts with AmTrust. And there was no attempt 
to give Mr N certainty over when it was likely payment would be made.
In these circumstances Im satisfied £300 compensation is fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AmTrust International Underwriters DAC to pay Mr N 
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
AmTrust must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr N 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman