DRN-3322908
The complaint
This complaint is about information Miss C and Mr H received from Santander UK Plc when 
they enquired about taking out a new mortgage to move house. They say they were twice 
told they could borrow up to 95% of the purchase price of a new property, only to have that 
corrected on each occasion to a maximum of 85% loan to value (LTV). 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss C and Mr H and Santander. 
Im also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, 
which has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here.
 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss C and Mr H being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main 
points, rounding any figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss C and Mr H already had a mortgage with Santander. They had decided to move home, 
and during a phone conversation in the latter part of 2020, Santander told them they could 
borrow up to 95% LTV. A few days later, Santander corrected this, saying that because of 
the sums involved, the LTV upper limit was 85%; it offered £25 compensation for the error, 
which was accepted. 
The same thing happened again when Miss C and Mr H enquired again in February 2021; 
albeit this time it too longer for the incorrect information to be corrected. Santander 
apologised and this time offered £250 compensation.
Miss C and Mr H brought the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think Santander need 
do any more than it had done in offering a further £250 compensation in addition to the first 
offer of £25. Miss C and Mr H asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
The case is simpler than its been made to look. Thats because I dont have to decide if 
Santander made a mistake. Its already admitted that. All I have to decide if Santander has 
responded fairly to the complaint, or if it needs to do more. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions, and the reasons for them are as follows.
First of all, no one is entitled to borrow money, and even where a lender has lent before, its 
not obliged to lend again, or lend the same amount again. Whether and how much a lender 
will lend is a matter of commercial judgement. We dont generally interfere in how a lender 
exercises its judgement, and Ive no reason to do so here.
Its true that Santander has accepted having given the wrong information (twice) but that still 
doesnt mean Miss C and Mr H became entitled to borrow up to the 95% LTV they were 
mistakenly led to believe was possible. It simply means that Miss C and Mr Hs expectations 
were wrongfully raised.
Where that happens, we dont put people in the position theyd be in if the wrong information 
had been right; rather, we put them in the position theyd be in if the wrong information 
hadnt been given. In this case, that would mean Miss C and Mr H would always have known 
they could only borrow up to 85%. Its my understanding that Miss C and Mr H did 
subsequently take a new mortgage of 85% LTV with Santander for the house move, which 
means theyre already in the position theyd have been in if nothing had gone wrong.
Miss C and Mr H says theyll end the dispute without going to court if they receive a 
reasonable settlement plus a guarantee that Santander has reviewed its lending department 
staff to ensure this cant happen to other applicants. Ill address those two things in that 
order.
For having their expectations wrongfully raised, Santander has offered a combined total of 
£275. In my view, that was reasonable in the wider circumstances. If no settlement had been 
made, I would not have awarded more.
Ive no regulatory power, so its not my function to tell Santander how to operate its 
business, structure its departments or train its staff. My remit is confined to determining the 
complaint in front of me.
Miss C and Mr H dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they 
nor Santander will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other 
restrictions a court might impose, Miss C and Mr Hs right to take legal action against 
Santander over the subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our 
consideration of it. However, they might wish to get legal advice first before going down that 
route. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill simply leave it to Miss C and Mr H to decide whether, on 
further reflection, they wish to accept Santanders offer of settlement. If they do, they should 
contact the business directly. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman