DRN-3223327
The complaint
Mrs C complains it took UK Credit Limited too long to update her credit file after she settled a 
guarantor loan she had with it.
What happened
Mrs C made a payment to settle her loan on 31 March 2021 and the account was closed on 
6 April 2021. Mrs C complained to UK Credit on 4 May 2021 because her credit file hadnt 
been updated to show the loan had been settled. She was unhappy because she says an 
application for a mortgage was declined as a result, and her family lost the house they 
wanted.
UK Credit didnt think it had done anything wrong and our investigator agreed. As Mrs C 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C called UK Credit on 1 April 2021 to advise shed made a payment to close the 
account. During this call she was told the account would not be fully closed until 6 April 
2021, due to the timing of the scheduled direct debit payment and bank holiday. There 
wasnt any discussion about when her credit file would be updated, and UK Credit didnt tell 
Mrs C it would be updated any sooner than it was.
While Mrs C might have thought her credit file would be updated sooner, this wasnt as a 
result of anything UK Credit did. The information available from all the main credit reference 
agencies is that it can take about four to six weeks for updates to be made to credit files. 
And Mrs Cs credit file was updated within this timescale. So I dont think UK Credit did 
anything wrong.
I understand why Mrs C wanted her credit file updated sooner than it was. But I note 
UK Credit said it would send an email to Mrs C on 6 April to confirm the account had been 
closed. If the reason Mrs C wasnt given a mortgage was that her UK Credit loan was still 
showing as active on her credit file, its not clear to me why the lender wouldnt accept 
alternative proof the loan had been settled, such as the confirmation email Mrs C likely had.
So even if I did think UK Credit had taken too long to update Mrs Cs credit file, or it had 
misled her into thinking it would be done sooner, it wouldnt necessarily follow that I would 
award Mrs C any compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman