DRN-3902624
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L complain about their broker, Advisory Insurance Brokers Limited (AIB). Their 
complaint is about the rebuild value of their property under their home insurance policy being 
less than it should have been, meaning they were underinsured. They believe AIB provided 
the rebuild value and, consequently, mis-sold the policy to them.
Any reference to AIB in this decision includes their agents.
This decision covers Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint about AIB, as the broker through which 
they took out their policy. It doesnt cover the decision of the insurer of the policy (T) to 
reduce the amount of Mr L and Mrs Ls claim by 50%, due to their being underinsured.
What happened
In May 2021 there was a flood in the kitchen of Mr L and Mrs Ls property. They contacted T 
to tell them about the flood and lodge a claim. Given the extent of the damage T appointed a 
loss adjuster to assess the claim. 
However, when the claim was assessed, T concluded that the buildings sum insured was 
less than the sum that should have been included under the policy. They estimated the sum 
was 50% of what it should be. So, Mr L and Mrs L were underinsured. T said they would 
reduce the value of their cash settlement of the claim by 50%, reflecting the underinsurance.
Unhappy at their claim being reduced, Mr L and Mrs L complained to this service. They said 
they were told the rebuild cost of their property by AIB when they took out the policy (in 
2014). Theyd been affected financially by having to pay the cost of reinstating the kitchen. 
They wanted AIB to either appoint contractors to reinstate the kitchen or settle the claim at 
the full amount. 
As Mr L and Mrs L complained to this service without having previously complained to AIB, 
we asked AIB to consider the issues raised by Mr L and Mrs L. In their final response, AIB 
didnt uphold the complaint. They said when acting for consumers to arrange a policy, they 
couldnt advise on the amount they should insure their property, although they were able to 
provide an estimated cost of rebuilding a property from the Building Cost Information Service 
(BCIS). But they highlight it was an estimate only and should be checked (by the consumer) 
to ensure it was adequate for their purposes. They referred to information on the buildings 
sum insured in the documentation issued when the policy was taken out, and subsequently 
in documents issued at renewal of the policy through to 2022. And that the policyholder 
should check the figures provided. Based on this, AIB didnt accept the policy was mis-sold.
Our investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She found the sum 
insured for the buildings (and contents) element of the policy had changed several times 
since the policy was first taken out. The buildings sum insured was initially £200,000 then 
increased to £226,835 in 2017 and to £275,123 in 2018. The figure increased at renewal to 
£282,881 (2019); £292,046 (2020); £307,758 (2021); and £598,860 in 2022. As the sum had 
changed each year since 2017, the rebuild value had been re-assessed regularly since the 
policy was taken out. AIB hadnt made any of the changes in the buildings sum insured. 
Together with the policy documents stating the level of cover was based on answers to 
questions provided by Mr L and Mrs L, the investigator concluded the underinsurance wasnt 
due to any error by AIB.
Mr L and Mrs L disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They said they hadnt made any changes to the buildings sum insured and 
didnt know where the changes to the buildings sum insured came from.
AIB responded to say they didnt provide Mr L and Mrs L with the initial buildings sum 
insured when the policy was taken out. They said Mr L and Mrs L increased the buildings 
sum insured when the policy was renewed in 2018. Thereafter, changes to the sum insured 
were the result of automatic index linking, a standard feature of the policy.
Mr L and Mrs L further responded to say they increased the buildings sum insured in 2018 
by the cost of an extension they had built to the property. Having spoken to other insurance 
brokers, their view was the policy had been mis-sold. So, Mr L and Mrs L should be entitled 
to the full value of their claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AIB have acted fairly towards Mr L and Mrs L
The main issue in this complaint is whether the underinsurance of the buildings sum insured 
was the result of the figure being provided by AIB (as Mr L and Mrs L maintain). Mr L and 
Mrs L say they havent made any changes to the buildings sum insured (other than to 
increase the sum by the cost of an extension they had put on the property). As such, they 
believe the policy was mis-sold and they should be entitled to the full value of the claim.
AIB say they didnt provide the buildings sum insured when the policy was taken out. They 
say Mr L and Mrs L increased the buildings sum insured when the policy was renewed in 
2018, and thereafter changes were the result of automatic index linking.
In considering this issue, Ive looked at the available evidence and information available, 
including about the policy when it was taken out in 2014. In the letter confirming the policy, 
including the Policy Schedule. it includes the following statement:
This policy has been prepared based on information supplied by you and meets the 
demands and needs of those wishing to cover their buildings and/or contents against 
insured perils. A full breakdown of the information is provided in the enclosed 
Statement of Fact. It is very important that you contact us if any of the information is 
incorrect as it could invalidate your cover or alter the terms of your premium.
The Policy Schedule includes a figure of £200,000 as the Sum insured up to under 
the Buildings heading. It also contains the following statement under the heading 
Sum Insured:
It is essential, and in your own interest, that you consider the adequacy of your 
cover advising us immediately of any increase or alterations required. Please 
check that the sums insured contained in this Policy Schedule represent the full 
re-instatement value of your equipment etc. Failure to specify an accurate sum 
insured could result in claims payments being reduced by the proportion of the 
stated sum insured to the correct value at risk.The same wording is included within the Policy Schedules issued at subsequent 
renewal of the policy. The same figure of £200,000 is included under the Statement of 
Fact document under the heading 2. Buildings Sum Insured. Given these 
references, I think its clear the £200,000 figure is the responsibility of Mr L and Mrs L 
and that they should consider the adequacy of the sum (the £200,000) and correct it if 
it isnt accurate (or sufficient). 
Looking at subsequent renewals of the policy, as set out above the sum insured was 
amended from 2017 through to the most recent renewal in 2022. The renewal 
documents make it clear policyholders should check the information (including sums 
insured) to ensure they are accurate and complete. So, its the policyholders 
responsibility to ensure the figure is accurate and appropriate  not the brokers (AIB).
As the figure has increased significantly since 2014, I dont think the figure when the 
policy was taken out is relevant for the purposes of whether the property was 
underinsured at the time Mr L and Mrs L made their claim. Rather, it was the current 
figure. Which would have been the responsibility of Mr L and Mrs L to ensure was 
accurate and appropriate.
Mr L and Mrs L say they updated the buildings sum insured at renewal in 2018 for the 
cost of an extension they had added to the property. Which indicates they recognised 
the need to notify any increases or alterations required (per the above Policy 
Schedule reference). I also think it reasonable to have expect them to also consider 
whether the underlying sum insured remained accurate and appropriate (as was their 
responsibility, as the Policy Schedule reference makes clear).
Ive considered Mr L and Mrs Ls point that they havent made any changes to the 
buildings sum insured (other than to increase the sum by the cost of an extension 
they had put on the property).. AIB say that (since 2018) the figures for sums insured 
have increased due to automatic indexation. This seems reasonable. But again, it 
doesnt absolve the policyholder from checking the accuracy of the sum insured figure 
(including increases to the sum insured  however they have been determined). 
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded AIB arent responsible for the 
accuracy and adequacy of the buildings sum insured  Mr L and Mrs L are. So, I cant 
conclude theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L and Mrs L.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr L and Mrs Ls 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman