DRN-2538127
The complaint
Mr J is complaining that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions he didnt authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
Mr J used PayPal to buy tickets online on 1 November 2019. When he didnt get the 
tickets or hear from the seller, he googled the number for PayPal and called it to get 
a refund for what he paid. 
Mr J recalled that he was transferred to the refund desk. He was told that to get the 
refund, theyd need his card details as well as a code sent to him by text. When the 
first card didnt work, he provided his Monzo card details. Mr J initially thought he 
was asked for a code shared by text for Monzo too  but later said he mightve been 
asked to confirm it in the app instead. 
That day, two payments were debited from Mr Js account  totalling £89.71. Monzo 
declined to refund these because it didnt think the transactions were fraudulent  
thats because they were authorised by 3D Secure on Mr Js device.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting position is that Mr J 
isnt liable for payments he didnt authorise. 
Ive considered whether Mr J authorised these transactions  and so, in line with the 
PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the payments or, whether he 
gave someone else permission to complete these steps on his behalf. 
Monzos terms and conditions dont set out the specific steps to make online 
payments. But the information on Monzos website explains that Mr J can use his 
card to make payments online and hell be prompted to use 3D Secure by specific 
merchants when making online payments.
Here, Mr J provided his card details to a fraudster, claiming to be from PayPal, in 
order to get a refund. So Im not satisfied Mr J used his card to make these payments 
online. Indeed, hed no interaction with the merchant. Instead, it seemed that the 
fraudster entered his card details on the merchants website. 
To complete the first payment, Mr J also had to authenticate it in his Monzo app, 
before returning to the merchants page to confirm it (a process known as 3D 
Secure). Mr J cant remember all the details, but thinks he was in the app to give his 
card details, and recalls being told he had to do it to get the refund. 
Monzo say that because Mr J completed this step in the app, he authorised the 
payments. But this was just one step in what he needed to do to authorise the 
payments. As the PSRs set out, the use of a payment instrument is not it itself 
enough to say it was authorised.
It follows that, given Mr J had no interaction with the merchant to either put in his 
card details to make the payments online or return to the merchants page to confirm 
them, he didnt complete all the agreed steps. And given that the only actions he took 
were in the belief hed be getting a refund, Im not persuaded he gave permission for 
someone else to make the payments on his behalf. They were, therefore, 
unauthorised.
Monzo hasnt disputed that the payments were completed by distant contracts, which 
werent excepted contracts. So, under consumer law, Monzo is liable for refunding 
these unauthorised payments in full. And I dont need to consider whether Mr J failed 
with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms of the account or keep his 
personalised security details safe. 
So I conclude that Monzo need to put things right  by refunding Mr Js losses from 
these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate him for the time 
hes been out of pocket.
Monzo shouldve refunded these sooner. Because it didnt, Mr J had to pursue a 
lengthy complaint, alongside the distress of being told theres nothing Monzo could 
do and that it didnt believe the payments were fraudulent. So I also award £75 to 
reflect Mr Js non-financial losses.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Js complaint and I order Monzo Bank Ltd, 
within 28 days of receiving notification from us of Mr Js acceptance of this decision, to:
Pay Mr J the total of the unauthorised transactions (£89.71), less any amount already 
returned. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £75 for Mr Js distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman