DRN-3577200
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to his mortgage switch and 
intention to obtain further funds from Barclays for home improvements and debt 
consolidation. 
He feels he was misinformed during a webchat conversation leading him to switch his 
mortgage rate before the additional funds were approved, leaving him wanting to get a 
mortgage from a different lender. However, he then had a potential Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) to pay should he redeem his mortgage prior to the 31 August 2026. He thinks this is 
unfair and should be waived. 
What happened
On 30 April Mr L contacted Barclays by webchat making an enquiry about switching his then 
current mortgage rate which was due to expire that day. He also wanted to apply for further 
funds in order to carry out home improvements and to consolidate some of his existing 
unsecured debt. 
Barclays agent (H) told Mr L that any additional funds he wanted would require a full 
application to be made. H also told Mr L that he could select a new rate for his mortgage at 
that time, but the rate for the additional funds would depend on the rates available at the 
time he made the application. H took details of Mr Hs income and borrowing requirements 
advising him of the maximum he could borrow, and confirming he met Barclays basic 
eligibility criteria. He also said that any decision regarding the additional funds would be 
subject to an affordability assessment. 
Mr L asked if he could switch his current mortgage to a new rate that day and process an 
application for the additional funds later, and H told him he could. H fixed a telephone 
appointment for Mr L for June for him to complete the application. Mr L called back on 
webchat, this time speaking with B, about the rate switch which he said he had been trying 
to do. He asked whether he could switch the rate that day and if, the other applications will 
still go through and B said, yes you can continue with your rate switch for this part of the 
mortgage & your application will still be booked in and go through yes.
Mr L then made a rate switch online fixing his rate of interest from the 1 May. In doing so he 
agreed to the ERC becoming payable should he redeem the mortgage prior to the 31 August 
2026.
When, in June, Mr L subsequently made his application for further funds, Barclays declined it 
on the basis that his indebtedness levels exceed maximum for debt consolidation due to 
dependence on repayment of debt to meet affordability.
When dealing with his complaint Barclays apologised for any confusion caused and also 
their poor complaint handling offering Mr L £100 compensation, but it didnt agree that it 
should waive the ERC or that it had misled him.
Mr L was unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had been 
poor service, the amount of compensation Barclays offered was enough to put things right. 
Mr L didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has helpfully clarified that his complaint is not about Barclays decision to refuse his 
application for further funds, rather it is about the conflicting information it provided which led 
him to fixing his rate and becoming liable to the ERC. He says he wouldnt have done this 
but for the information Barclays gave him. 
Mr L was naturally keen to switch his mortgage rate before it expired on 30 April and put him 
onto a higher rate. But, the webchat shows that Barclays did not make any promises or 
guarantees that Mr L would be successful in getting the further funds he wanted. And the 
webchat made it clear that although he had passed the initial checks, a full application would 
be required for the additional borrowings and that would be subject to an affordability 
assessment. This is an important point because it emphasises that a full decision had yet to 
be made, meaning that it was possible that the application could be declined. So, I dont 
think Mr L can say he was under the impression that the further funds would be granted 
regardless.
I have noted that the webchat does say that Mr L could continue with the rate switch and his 
application would be booked and still go through. But I dont think this can be interpreted as 
it will definitely be successful, rather that it will be considered. If it meant the former, then it 
would make the process of the application pointless, and I dont see that as a reasonable 
interpretation. 
Mr H was not given advice by Barclays as to which product was best for him. He chose the 
mortgage himself, online. The offer which was produced for him on 30 April spells out the 
ERC, what it is, and when it would be payable. Having chosen that rate himself Mr L has 
then become bound by the terms of the mortgage and so it follows that the ERC is properly 
chargeable if the mortgage is redeemed prior to the 31 August 2026.
In dealing with Mr Ls application Barclays processed it in line with their processes and 
concluded that the funds requested were not affordable. Barclays are entitled to reach that 
conclusion and as long as they followed their processes fairly, which they did, I cant say 
they have been unfair or acted unreasonably. I note Barclays have accepted that they gave 
conflicting information and provided a poor complaint handling service, and on that basis 
offered Mr L £100.
I know Mr L has complained about Barclays complaint handling and I can empathise with 
him regarding his experience. Having said that, this element of complaint is not one I can 
look into. Im afraid that the rules which govern what I can and cant look into say that I can 
only look at what are known as regulated activities, and unfortunately complaint handling is 
not one of those activities, unless it is closely linked to the activity complained of, and in this 
case it isnt. Overall, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong and although they accept that the 
information they gave Mr L was conflicting I think that was generous. I dont however 
propose to interfere with their offer.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already offered Mr L £100 to settle this complaint, and I think 
that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman