DRN-2887595
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank (Danske) mis-
sold them a Choice Plus packaged bank account in 2007.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M opened a fee-free account with Danske in 1987 and upgraded it to a paid-for 
Choice Plus account in June 2007. The account was reverted to a fee-free account in 
November 2020. The upgrade to the Choice Plus account was completed in one of Danskes 
branches.
Mr and Mrs M say that the only reason they took the Choice Plus account was because they 
were told they needed it in order to take a further advance on their mortgage. Theyve 
explained that Danske told them at the time that their account needed to be upgraded so 
that they could access credit easier, and that theyd also have travel insurance. 
Our adjudicators didnt think that Danske mis-sold the Choice Plus account to Mr and Mrs M 
and didnt recommend that Danske should pay them any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree so their complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Ms complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the Choice Plus account 
was mis-sold to them. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs M were given a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs M have effectively said that they didnt have a choice about upgrading their 
account. I say this because theyve said that if they hadnt upgraded, they wouldnt have 
been able to take the mortgage that they wanted to take.  
I agree that if this had been the case, there could be some questions about whether Mr and 
Mrs M were genuinely given a choice about upgrading their account. But having carefully 
reviewed everything Mr and Mrs M have said, as well as the evidence Danske has provided, 
Im not persuaded thats the case. 
Danske says that Mr and Mrs M had held a mortgage with it before upgrading their account, 
which the evidence Ive seen suggests was opened in 2003. I note that at that time they held 
a fee-free account; so Im satisfied that they knew they didnt have to have a packaged bank 
account in order to access credit, and in particular, to borrow from Danske using a mortgage 
facility.
I note from Danskes records that in July 2007, in the month following the account upgrade, 
Mr and Mrs M took further mortgage borrowing of £46,000. The mortgage offer they were 
given shows that as a Choice Plus customer they were entitled to having the arrangement 
fee waived. Danske has provided evidence that theyd otherwise have been charged £799 
for this. 
Ive also seen evidence that Mr and Mrs M took additional borrowing of just under £7000 in 
October 2007. Again, the offer document shows that they didnt pay the £799 arrangement 
fee as a result of holding the Choice Plus account. 
Danske has provided evidence that this fee was payable on all mortgage arrangements, 
including additional borrowing. So Im persuaded that had it not been for the Choice Plus 
account Mr and Mrs M wouldve paid these fees, even though I know they dont agree that 
this is reasonable, especially on the much smaller second amount they borrowed. 
So although Mr and Mrs M say they upgraded their account in order to take the additional 
mortgage borrowing, Im not persuaded that they did so because they had no choice in the 
matter. The short succession of events following the upgrade lead me to believe that its 
more likely that they made the decision to upgrade, on the premise that the financial benefits 
would outweigh the cost of £30 per quarter to hold the account. I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs 
Ms version of events is their honest recollections, but thinking about what theyve said 
alongside the evidence Ive seen, I havent concluded that Danske likely misled them into 
believing they had to upgrade to take out the further advances Ive mentioned.
So having considered everything here, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were aware that they 
had a choice about taking the Choice Plus account. And I dont think they took it because 
they were given no other option but to do so, or because they were given false information.
I havent seen enough to make me think Danske personally recommended the Choice Plus 
account to Mr and Mrs M. So whilst it didnt have to check if the account was suitable for 
them, it had to give them the key information about it for them to decide for themselves 
whether they wanted it.
I know that Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt need the travel insurance that came with the 
Choice Plus account. And I certainly accept what theyve said here. But in considering 
whether that means the account was mis-sold, I dont think thats the case. Mr and Mrs M 
have made it clear they were made aware of the travel insurance benefit at the time of the 
upgrade, albeit it wasnt the reason they upgraded. I cant see any reason Mr and Mrs M 
couldnt have used the travel insurance if theyd wanted to or needed to  although I do 
accept that fact had no bearing on their overall decision to upgrade.
Its possible that Danske didnt tell Mr and Mrs M everything it should have about the Choice 
Plus account. But I havent seen enough to make me think that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt still 
have taken the account, even if Danske had told them more about it.I do note that as our investigator explained, Mr and Mrs M also benefited from the Choice 
Plus account by receiving discounted interest rates on two personal loans in 2011. Whilst 
this happened a long time after the sale, so its not relevant to the decision on whether to 
upgrade or not, Ive taken it into consideration. I say this because it indicates that Mr and 
Mrs M were likely aware they still held the paid-for account some four years after the 
upgrade, and chose to keep it. Its also relevant to note at this point that even if I thought 
Danske had mis-sold the account, and therefore told it to repay the Choice Plus fees, 
Danske would be entitled to deduct the mortgage arrangement fees waivers and personal 
loan discounts from the overall refund. 
I fully understand that Mr and Mrs M may not have used all the benefits of the Choice Plus 
account. And with hindsight, they might not feel like its been good value for money to them. 
But that in itself doesnt mean Danske mis-sold the account to them, and it doesnt mean the 
complaint should be upheld.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs M that although I might not have addressed every point 
theyve raised individually, Ive carefully thought about all the information I have about their 
complaint. But having done so I dont think Danske mis-sold the Choice Plus account to 
them, and I dont think it has treated them unfairly. So Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M 
but I dont think Danske owes them any money.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Northern bank Limited trading as Danske 
Bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman