DRN-3580003
The complaint
Mrs B complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds refusal to cover future treatment with a 
particular consultant under her private medical insurance cover. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator for these reasons:
The policy makes it clear that treatment costs are only covered if the medical 
practitioner is recognised by Bupa. 
Mrs Bs consultant (Prof. B) used to be recognised by Bupa, but from 2019, he was 
no longer recognised. Despite this, Bupa agreed to cover Mrs Bs ongoing annual 
check-ups with Prof. B. This decision was made outside the policy terms, and was up 
to Bupa.
At the same time as Bupa agreed to cover annual check-ups, it also led Mrs B to 
understand (due to a poorly worded email) that future treatment carried out by Prof. B 
would also be covered. When Mrs B needed a procedure in 2021 (carried out by 
Prof. B), she asked Bupa to cover this. Although Bupa initially refused because 
Prof. B wasnt recognised, it later accepted that it had given Mrs B the wrong 
impression that future treatment with Prof. B would be covered. Bupa therefore 
agreed to pay for the treatment, which I think was reasonable.  
Bupa has advised Mrs B that, apart from the annual check-ups, it wont cover any 
future treatment that she has with Prof. B unless he is recognised. 
Although Bupa previously led Mrs B to understand that she would have cover for 
future treatment carried out by Prof. B, Im satisfied it has taken appropriate steps to 
resolve the matter. Mrs B has had cover for treatment with her preferred consultant 
which shouldnt have been covered. However, Im not persuaded that Bupas error 
means that it needs to continue to cover future treatment carried out by Prof. B when 
this is not covered under the policy. 
Mrs B is aware that Bupa can provide her with details of another recognised 
consultant if she requires future treatment for her condition to be covered under the 
policy. 
I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman