DRN-4212713
The complaint
Company H (H) complain Wise Payments Limited (Wise) closed its account immediately 
and did so without notice nor explanation. 
To put things right, H want Wise to pay them compensation for loss of reputation, 
inconvenience, and distress.   
What happened
This decision only deals with Hs complaint against Wise. Any complaints raised by any 
director of H in their personal capacity, are being looked into under a separate reference at 
this service.
H opened a business account with Wise in August 2022. Following an internal review, Hs 
account and/or profile was closed on 7 September 2022. H had funds in three separate 
currency accounts. Wise returned these funds to H in late November 2022. 
Unhappy with Wises actions, H complained. Wise didnt uphold Hs complaint. In short it 
said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account, and regulatory 
obligations it must follow. 
H referred their complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into Hs complaint. 
They recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. In summary, they said Wise closed Hs 
account in line with its terms and conditions. And that it was done fairly, and in line with 
fulfilling its legal and regulatory obligations. 
H didnt agree. They say Wise told them to open the account only to close it some 20 days 
later without any warning. H also argue Wise ought to have given them 60 days notice of its 
intention to close the account. 
As H didnt agree, their complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Wise, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Wise is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before Wise closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Wise and H had to comply with, say it could 
close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain circumstances it 
can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Wise, Im satisfied it was entitled to close 
the account in the way that it has done. Wise have provided this service with information as 
to why it had concerns, and why it took the actions it did. Having carefully reviewed this, Im 
satisfied Wise hasnt acted improperly when closing Hs account and in returning its funds in 
November 2022. 
I know H would like an explanation, but Im aware of no obligation under which Wise must do 
this. I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from regulated businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information Wise has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
H say this matter has caused them reputational and financial loss. They also say its caused 
them distress and inconvenience. I do appreciate this matter wouldve caused H some 
difficulty. But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on 
which I might make an award against Wise given that I dont think it failed to properly follow 
its own procedures, or did anything wrong, when it closed Hs account.
Id also add that a limited company, as a separate legal entity to a private individual, cant 
suffer distress. So Im not going to ask Wise to compensate H for any inconvenience, loss of 
reputation or financial loss this may have caused.
Lastly, I think Wise did cause delays with carrying out its internal investigation and the 
actions it was taking. But Wise has explained why it held onto Hs funds for as long as it did. 
Those reasons would not directly impact on when the funds were released to H. In other 
words, the delays in Wises investigation would not have led to the funds being released any 
sooner. 
So Im satisfied, having carefully considered this point, theres reason enough for Wise to 
have held onto the funds for as long as they did. Because of that it doesnt need to 
compensate H for the deprivation of funds.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman