DRN-2177889
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about increases to the cost of their buildings and contents insurance 
with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) over the years theyve held the policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a home insurance policy with Aviva in 1987. Theyve said it was 
presented to them as a condition of the mortgage they took out at the time. 
The cost of the policy increased at certain points throughout the years, when the policy was 
renewed. Mr and Mrs T feel that Aviva has taken advantage of them at each renewal by 
overcharging them for cover. They say theyve now been able to source cheaper home 
insurance elsewhere and would like some of the amounts theyve paid over the years, which 
they believe to be excessive, refunded.
Aviva says Mr and Mrs T had the opportunity to accept or reject the renewal price they were 
offered each year, and that the cost of insurance policies can vary based on each insurers 
view of the risk, the level of cover offered, and other factors. 
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with Avivas response and referred their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded that Aviva hadnt treated 
Mr and Mrs T unfairly. He said hed looked at how Mr and Mrs T had been engaging with 
their renewal process over the years and that based on this, he didnt think Aviva had taken 
advantage of any lack of engagement on their part. 
He also said Mr and Mrs T made some amendments to the policy and some claims over the 
years, which resulted in the risk level changing. In our investigators view, this explained the 
increases in cost and so he didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly when setting the price of 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy over the years.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators assessment of their complaint. They said 
theyd been able to find another insurer offering them the same level of cover for less than a 
third of the price Aviva offered them at their 2019 renewal. They didnt think this was fair, and 
because they didnt accept our investigators view of the complaint, the complaint has come 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first highlight that I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk or say 
what an insurance policy should have cost. I would be, in effect, telling a business how it 
should operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether Aviva has treated Mr and 
Mrs T fairly throughout the period they held its insurance policy. If I find that Aviva hasnt 
treated Mr and Mrs T fairly, I would then consider what level of compensation would be fair. 
However, in this case Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, as they feel strongly that Aviva 
hasnt treated them fairly because its charged them prices they believe to be excessive. 
They think their loyalty and trust has been taken advantage of and Ive considered 
everything theyve said about this. But Ill explain why I dont think Aviva has taken 
advantage of them.
The policy was renewed each year and in 1990 we know Mr and Mrs T paid £144.96 for 
cover. We dont have details of the cost of the policy before that year. But over the years the 
price increased to over £900 at one point. It also decreased at times too.
So I need to consider whether Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs T fairly in the way its set the 
pricing of their policy. When a customer hasnt engaged with their renewal documents year 
after year  that is, theyve kept on paying the renewal price without getting in touch with 
their insurer or shopping around  wed describe these customers as inert. We think that at 
some point the business should become aware of this and wed expect it not to increase the 
price solely because of the customers inertia. In this case, having looked at what happened 
around each time the price went up at renewal I cant say the price increases to the policy 
were as a direct result of Mr and Mrs Ts lack of engagement with the renewal process. So I 
dont believe Aviva has unfairly increased the price of Mr and Mrs Ts policy. 
I say this because, firstly, its normal for the cost of insurance to go up. Insurers often give 
new customers a discount and then increase the price over the next few years to recoup that 
initial discount. I dont think thats unreasonable. Secondly, there were points at which claims 
were made and because this changed the risk level of the policy, I think this explains why 
the cost increased. There was also one point at which it looks like two policies were merged 
into one. This was when the policy cost increased from £260.42 to £571.92. So I dont think 
Aviva acted unfairly at that point either.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs T did engage with Aviva at renewal time on a number of 
occasions, often negotiating a lower price for the policy. But from 2014 onwards, it looks like 
they didnt engage with their renewal documents for some time, and there was no change in 
the apparent risk level of the policy. So the price only increased by a small amount each 
year from then on. 
Mr and Mrs T say they only realised they were being overcharged after they received their 
2019 renewal notice and decided to look elsewhere. Theyve pointed to an alternative lower 
premium quote they were able to get with another insurer at the time. Ive thought about this. 
But, although I appreciate Mr and Mrs T say it is comprehensive, the other policy wont have 
been identical to the one they had with Aviva and so cant be compared like for like. There 
may have been differences in the cover provided and there will be many factors which 
impacted each insurers view of the risk it was being asked to cover. All insurers will view 
and price risk differently. So just because there are cheaper alternatives available 
elsewhere, this doesnt mean Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly.
Mr and Mrs T say they received a 10% discount on their new policy for also holding a motor 
policy with that insurer. But I must also take into account that the policy theyve now taken 
out is a new home insurance policy with a new insurer, so Mr and Mrs T possibly received a 
discount on the initial cost for that reason as well. So, and I know this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, I do not think Aviva has taken advantage of them or acted 
unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman