DRN-2214834
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money he 
lost to a scammer.
What happened
Mr A says he attempted to buy a car bumper online from a breakers yard. He sent two 
payments for £250 each using his online banking on 28 June 2018. But he never received 
the bumper. So he contacted Halifax on 2 July 2018 to say hed been the victim of a scam. 
Halifax says it contacted the receiving bank on 2 July 2018 to make it aware of the scam and 
request the return of any remaining funds. But the receiving bank advised that no funds 
remained in the beneficiary account to recover. 
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt recommend that Halifax refund the money Mr A lost. As Mr A wasnt 
happy with this outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr A authorised the payments. He made two faster payments for 
£250 each using his online banking on 28 June 2018. So even though Mr A was the victim of 
a scam, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
Halifax had an obligation to follow Mr As payment instructions, and Mr A is presumed liable 
for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
There are circumstances in which a bank should make additional checks before processing 
a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm. Ive reviewed Mr As bank account 
statements in the months leading up to the scam and I dont think the two payments were so 
unusual or suspicious in comparison to his normal activity that they ought to have alerted 
Halifax that he may be at risk of financial harm. In fact, I can see that he made payments of 
this nature on a regular basis, and often for higher amounts. Bearing in mind the value and 
nature of the payments, and that they werent out of character in comparison to Mr As 
normal account activity, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably in processing the payments 
without making further enquiries.
Ive seen evidence that Mr A reported the scam to Halifax early on the morning of 2 July 
2018, and that Halifax promptly contacted the receiving bank to try to recover his funds. At 
10:27 that morning, Halifax received the receiving banks response that none of Mr As funds 
remained in the beneficiary account to recover. Halifax sent Mr A a SMS advising him that it 
hadnt been able to recover his funds at 11:14. 
Im really sorry to hear that Mr A has been the victim of a scam, and I appreciate that he 
feels Halifax shouldve done more to protect and assist him. But I cant hold Halifax 
responsible for him having fallen victim to a scam. Mr A authorised the payments and Halifax 
could not reasonably have intervened. I think Halifax did all it could reasonably be expected 
to do to help Mr A try to recoup his money once it knew what had happened. 
In all of the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable of me to ask Halifax to 
refund Mr As loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman