DRN-3277890
The complaint
Mr D and Ms F are complaining about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)
has offered to settle a claim they made for a damaged conservatory roof.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr D and Ms F contacted RSA to make a claim for some damaged glass in
their conservatory roof.
RSA accepted the claim and sent a contractor (A) to look at the damage. A said there were
two glass panels cracked, which fitted with Mr D and Ms Fs description of what had
happened, but that there were other damaged panels and the overall state of the roof was
poor, with rotting wood in places.
RSA agreed that it would replace the damaged panels  and Mr D and Ms F agreed to pay
for three others to be replaced at the same time. They paid about £660 for the extra glass.
When A attempted to replace the panels they discovered that some parts for the struts
holding the panels in place were missing  and that these parts were obsolete. A put the old
panels back in. Mr D and Ms F complained that the roof now leaked worse than before  and
that a door wouldnt shut properly since A attempted repairs to the roof.
A told RSA that although it had looked at ways of making the conservatory watertight, there
was nowhere to fix a tarpaulin, or access the roof safely. RSA said it would pay Mr D and
Ms F up to £1,000 to make the roof watertight, as that was the limit on its home emergency
cover. It said as far as replacing the glass was concerned its liability stopped at replacing
the two recently damaged panels.
Mr D and Ms F complained  and RSA didnt respond so they brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator thought RSAs offer of £1,000 to make the roof watertight was fair, and that
RSA should either pay for installing the two panels if the glass was available, or for the glass
and installation if it wasnt. The investigator thought RSA had delayed the claim and should
pay £150 compensation to make up for this. She also thought a good resolution to the claim
was that, if all five panels needed to be installed, RSA should pay half the cost of the
installation, rather than just the cost of installing the two panes.
RSA accepted our investigators findings and told us the glass is available for
Mr D and Ms F to use, and delivery can be arranged. Its agreed to pay the cost of 
installation of the two panels (or 50% of the cost of five) if Mr D and Ms F arrange the work 
themselves.
Mr D and Ms F didnt think this was fair. They said their home is still being damaged and the 
family is upset by this and are worried about a lack of security as an external door no longer 
shuts properly. They say theyve contacted a supplier that says the roof can be repaired so 
its unfair of RSA to refuse to do this. They also dont see why they should accept and store 
the glass.
Mr D and Ms F asked for more compensation for their time and the upset  and for RSA to
complete the repair by whatever means necessary.
I issued my provisional findings in November.
In these I said, in summary, that
RSA had accepted Mr D and Ms Fs claim, but its contractor thought additional work 
needed doing because of the poor overall state of the roof, which was because of 
age and wear and tear.
The contractor couldnt repair the roof as some parts were obsolete. And it couldnt 
make it watertight, as there was nowhere to attach a tarpaulin or access the roof 
safely.
By December 2020 RSA had offered to pay up to £1,000  the limit on the home 
emergency policy  to make the roof watertight. I thought that was reasonable. Mr D 
and Ms F havent taken up this offer or had any work done. I didnt think it fair to ask 
RSA to pay for any damage that had developed since it attempted to fix the roof. 
That was because Mr D and Ms F do have a responsibility to minimise damage. 
Theyd said they could get the roof repaired  but hadnt done so. Nor did they 
appear to have attempted to make it watertight in any way. 
I thought there was clear evidence that the roof was in poor condition generally it 
was about 30 years old and some of the wooden supports were rotten. I thought the 
accidental damage had highlighted other problems with the roof rather than causing 
them. So I thought RSAs offer to pay for the two damaged panes was fair. 
To make a long lasting repair it seems more of the roof  a further three panes  will 
need to be replaced. 
I thought five panes of glass were available through RSAs contractor  and that Mr D 
and Ms F had paid for three of these. I thought RSA should pay half the cost of 
installing five panes (£542.50), which assumed that RSAs contractor would supply 
the five panes of glass.
I thought RSA had delayed the claim and should pay some compensation for this. I 
thought the £150 suggested by our investigator was a fair amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA said it would comply with my provisional findings.
Mr D and Ms F responded to say firstly that they have nowhere to store the glass and also 
that any contractor theyve contacted wont use glass provided by anyone else.
I can understand that their second point might be a real issue for them. So we asked RSA if 
it would pay for the two panes of glass it was responsible for at the cost they were included 
in Mr D and Ms Fs quote. Those panes were estimated at £200 each  so RSA would be 
paying approximately £942.50. RSA agreed to pay £950. Once its done that it wont provide 
any glass  so Mr D and Ms Fs concerns about storing glass fall away.Ive given some thought to the other three panes Mr D and Ms F paid for. But RSA has also 
sent us some evidence that the amount they paid for these (£659.08) was refunded to Mr D 
and Ms F in June 2021. So theyll need to buy those panes of glass themselves. If Mr D and 
Ms F cant find this refund in their financial records Im sure RSA will provide them with 
details of how and when the money was refunded if they ask for this.
Mr D and Ms F say RSA agreed to repair the external door to the conservatory, but asked 
them to find a carpenter to do this during the Covid-19 pandemic, which they found difficult 
to do. I havent seen anything from RSA that suggests it agreed to this. And I said in my 
provisional decision I didnt think RSA need pay for this work. But of course Mr D and Mrs F 
could use some of the settlement to pay for this work if they choose to. 
They also asked, after being told of the increased amount RSA was willing to pay, that I 
reconsider my initial findings. But I havent seen any new evidence from Mr D and Ms F that 
leads me to change my provisional conclusions, other than the revising the amount for the 
cash settlement..
Taking everything into account Im going to uphold this complaint, although Im not going to 
ask RSA to settle the claim the way Mr D and Ms F want.
Putting things right
To put things right RSA should:
Pay Mr D and Ms F £950 to settle the claim.
Pay £150 compensation for the unnecessary delays in handling the claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr D and Ms F the amounts outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman