DRN-3866452
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, did not refund all the 
commission he paid after he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
alongside a loan. 
What happened
After he complained to this service, Halifax agreed it had mis-sold PPI to Mr F. It offered to 
pay £6,801.51 to compensate him for that mis-sale. 
Mr F didnt think Halifaxs offer was fair. He said Halifax had not disclosed the amount of 
commission hed paid as part of his PPI premiums. He thought Halifax should also pay back 
the amount of commission hed paid. 
Our adjudicator thought Halifax had already paid back all the commission. Mr F didnt agree 
with our adjudicators view and so the matter was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
The first thing for me to say is that its not entirely clear to me whether the rules about unfair 
commission would apply in Mr Fs case. Thats because those rules would only  be relevant 
to a loan that was taken out before 6 April 2007 and was still open on 6 April 2008. I havent 
been provided with the dates Mr Fs loan started and ended. But for the purposes of this 
decision, Ive proceeded on the basis that they did apply. 
Looking at the offer letter Halifax sent to Mr F, I can see that he was sold a single premium 
policy, which means he had to borrow extra on top of his loan to pay for that cover. The cost 
of the PPI policy was £3,552.12. Part of that £3,552.12 would have been paid to the insurer 
to cover the cost of the PPI. And part of it would have been paid to Halifax as its commission 
(or reward from the insurer) for selling the policy to Mr F in the first place. Mr F wouldnt have 
paid for commission on top of the £3,552.12 he was charged for the PPI at the outset.
Mr F is correct when he says that there was a court judgment in which it was held that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship between a lender and a 
borrower. Following that judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) issued 
guidance and rules for calculating compensation when a person complained about the sale 
of PPI. The FCA referred to this as a two-step approach. 
The first step in the FCAs approach was that a business should check to see whether a PPI 
policy was mis-sold. If the business concluded that the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second 
step was to consider whether the level of undisclosed commission and profit share received 
from the PPI premium created an unfair relationship. 
The FCA said that if a business concluded that PPI was mis-sold at step one (as Halifax did 
in Mr Fs case), it didnt need to go on to look at a complaint about commission. Thats 
because in refunding everything Mr F had paid for the PPI; Halifax would have already 
refunded all of the commission and profit share Mr F paid.
I can see from the calculation Halifax sent to Mr F on 13 May 2021, that section B which 
referred to commission, had been left blank. Mr F annotated this as non-disclosure. 
However, I would only expect this aspect of the calculation to be completed if Halifax didnt 
accept PPI was mis-sold. If Halifax calculated the commission and profit share again, it 
would effectively be refunding commission and profit share twice. 
Putting this altogether, Im satisfied Mr F complained about the sale of PPI in August 2019. 
On 13 May 2021, Halifax agreed that it mis-sold PPI to him. It offered to refund £6,801.51, 
which included everything Mr F had paid for PPI, including commission and profit share. On 
that basis, in line with the FCAs guidance, it didnt have to go on to consider step two. Im 
satisfied Halifax has done what the FCAs rules say it must do. So I dont need to tell Halifax 
to take any further action in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman