DRN-1615505
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain they have only recently discovered their endowment policy, held with 
Scottish Widows Limited, was made paid up in 2003 following the non-payment of 
premiums. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out an endowment policy for mortgage repayment purposes in 1995. The 
policy was set up to achieve £20,000 on maturity in 2020. 
In 2003 Mr and Mrs A missed some premium payments. Scottish Widows wrote to them in 
May and June 2003 about the missed direct debits. In November 2003, it wrote further as it 
hadn't received a response, nor any premiums. It explained the policy had been made paid-
up. This meant no further premiums could be paid, the policy would remain invested and life 
cover costs and other charges would continue to be deducted from the policy value. 
In 2019 Mr and Mrs A's lender wrote to them in advance of their mortgage coming to the end 
of its term. Mr and Mrs A contacted Scottish Widows to find out how their policy was doing.  
It was at this point Mrs A says they found out that premiums hadn't been paid since 2003 
and so the policy had little value - approx £1,400. Mr and Mrs A complained as they say they 
weren't notified that premiums weren't paid. 
Scottish Widows didn't uphold their complaint. It says it wrote to Mr and Mrs A in 2003 on 
several occasions about the policy being in arrears and it also wrote to explain the policy had 
been made paid up. So it said it hadn't done anything wrong. Our investigator concluded it 
hadn't done anything wrong either; she was satisfied the letters had most likely been 
delivered correctly. 
Mr and Mrs A have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a second 
opinion. They say they have no recollection of receiving any letters and wouldn't have 
ignored them. They say this has been very stressful and are now facing having to sell their 
home. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs A now find themselves. And I 
can understand how worrying and stressful this is for them. But I can only make an award 
against Scottish Widows if I find it has done something wrong. 
When making enquiries about the policy in 2019, Mr and Mrs A initially thought their 
premiums were paid for along with their mortgage payment. Although some lenders and 
providers did have such arrangements, it wasn't that common. Most endowment premiums 
were paid for separately, as they were here. So when Mr and Mrs A changed their bank in 
2003, they needed to update their account details with Scottish Widows, either via their new 
bank or directly. It doesn't appear that was done.   I say this because the first outstanding premium for the endowment policy was March 2003. 
The direct debit collections between March and June 2003 were all returned unpaid. When 
direct debits are returned unpaid, it is standard practice for endowment providers to write out 
to policyholders because of the importance of maintaining premiums; the policy provides life 
cover and after a period of non-payment the policy becomes non-qualifying for tax 
purposes. 
Scottish Widows has provided records which show it did write out to Mr and Mrs A about 
premium payments. They show letters were sent in May and June 2003.  I accept it doesn't 
have copies of those letters, but I'm satisfied the records are sufficient to show letters were 
sent. And as Mr and Mrs A haven't moved, I'm satisfied they were, most likely, sent to the 
correct address. 
Scottish Widows has been able to provide a copy of a further letter it sent in November 
2003. This letter referred to the previous correspondence it had sent about premium 
payments. It also explained the policy had been made paid up which meant no further 
premium payments could be made, and set out what the tax consequences were. This letter 
was correctly addressed. 
I have carefully considered Mr and Mrs A arguments that they didn't receive the letters. But 
the vast majority of correctly addressed mail is correctly delivered. In the absence of any 
reason why Mr and Mrs A's correspondence was more likely to go astray, I find all the letters 
were most likely correctly delivered. 
I know Mr and Mrs A believe Scottish Widows should have also called them. But by sending 
the arrears letters and by notifying Mr and Mrs A the policy had been paid up, it had taken 
sufficient steps to alert them to the situation. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Scottish Widows took the steps I would expect by writing to Mr 
and Mrs A about the status of premium payments on their policy. I therefore don't find it did 
anything wrong, and I find no basis on which to make an award against Scottish Widows. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs A are now in the difficult position of not being able to repay their 
mortgage. If they haven't already done so, they can speak with their lender about what 
options they have going forward. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman