DRN-2872589
The complaint
T is unhappy that Northern Bank Limited, now trading as Danske Bank, declined to open an
adult Trust account for them.
What happened
T are trustees of a Trust and are represented in this instance by the individual in whose
name the trust was formed, who, for ease of reference, I will refer to as Mr T. Mr T has a
disability and the Trust was formed to enable Mr T to better manage the developing
consequences of his disability over the coming years.
Having formed the Trust, T were advised by their solicitor to open an adult Trust account to
manage the Trusts finances. T approached Danske and applied for this account, and
supplied a copy of Ts Trust Deed for Danskes review. However, Danske made the decision
to decline Ts application, on the basis that they had concerns about their ability to correctly
monitor and administer the adult Trust account based on the wording of some of the clauses
in the Trust Deed.
T and their solicitor felt that Danske may have misunderstood the Trust Deed, and after
conversation with Danske the relevant clauses in the Trust Deed were amended to make
them more palatable for Danske. However, upon review of the newly worded Trust Deed,
Danske maintained their position that they were unwilling to open an adult Trust account for
T as they were still concerned about their ability to appropriately administer the account.
T werent happy about this, and Mr T felt personally that he was being discriminated against
on the basis of his disability. So, T raised a complaint.
Danske looked at Ts complaint, but they maintained that their decision to decline the
requested account was a commercial decision and wasnt based in any way on Mr Ts
disability. So, they didnt uphold Ts complaint.
T werent satisfied with Danskes response, so they referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also didnt feel that Danske had
discriminated again Mr T in any way, but they didnt feel that Danskes declining to open the
adult Trust account was fair. So, they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Ts
favour and that Danske should allow T to open the adult Trust account.
Danske didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 May 2021 as follows:
Its only natural to sympathise with Mr T in these circumstances. And given that 
Danske is the most conveniently located bank for him to personally deal with, its 
understandable that he would want Ts banking to be conducted at that bank.
But there are limits to the instructions that this service can fairly and reasonably issue 
to a business, and while it is within the remit of this service to instruct a bank to open 
an account for a new customer, I would only consider issuing such an instruction 
where it can be demonstrated that the bank is acting unfairly towards that customer 
by declining to open an account for them.
Ultimately, I dont feel thats the case here. Danske have explained their rationale for
declining to open the adult Trust account that T wants to open, and Danskes 
rationale feels reasonable to me. And Im satisfied that Danskes decision to decline 
to open the adult Trust account is a commercial decision based on reasonable 
concerns and therefore one which they are entitled to make.
For instance, Danske have explained that the type of Trust account that T has 
requested isnt an account type that they actively advertise. And as such, all 
applications made for this type of Trust account are considered on a case by case 
basis.
In this instance, Danske reviewed the application, including Ts Trust Deed, and felt 
that their staff in the branch that Mr T would use, didnt have the capacity or the 
expertise to monitor the account in line with Trust Deed. And while Danske agreed to 
consider an amended form of the Trust Deed, having reviewed the amended Trust 
Deed, their position remained the same.
Im aware that Ts solicitor has sought to assure Danske that Danske wouldnt bear 
any responsibility for monitoring the account and ensuring compliance with the Trust 
Deed. But Danske maintain that once a Trust account is opened, they have a 
fiduciary responsibility to the beneficiaries of the relevant Trust, and therefore have a 
corresponding potential liability. 
Danske confirm that they consider that opening the adult Trust account for T would 
expose them to an unacceptable level of risk in respect of their fiduciary duties to the 
Trust beneficiaries, and that it was for this reason that they declined to open the 
account.
T may not agree with Danskes position here, but Danskes position seems 
reasonably to me and I find it difficult not to conclude that this is a decision that 
Danske are entitled to make.
Ultimately, its for a bank to decide who they will provide services to, and if so, on 
what terms. And I dont feel that its within the remit of this service to instruct a bank 
to provide services to an applicant when that bank has made a fair and reasonable 
commercial decision to decline that applicants application  as Im satisfied is the 
case here.
Im aware that Mr T feels that Danske have personally discriminated against him 
because of his disability by declining this application. I can appreciate Mr Ts 
concerns here, but I can find no evidence or suggestion that this is the case. Indeed, 
as mentioned above, Im satisfied that Danskes decision is a purely commercial one, 
and on that basis is one that Danske are entitled to make.I realise that this wont be the outcome that T were wanting here, but it follows that 
my provisional decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Danske 
to take any further action at this time. I hope that T can understand, given everything 
I have explained, why I have made the provisional decision that I have.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both T and Danske the opportunity to provide any 
comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. Danske confirmed that they were happy with my provisional decision and had 
nothing further to add. However, T did provide a further submission confirming that they 
disagreed with my provisional decision and providing detailed reasoning as to why.
Id like to thank T for this further submission and hope that they wont consider it a 
discourtesy that I dont respond to it in a similar level of detail here. Instead, in line with this 
services role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key points. 
As such, if T notes that I havent responded to a specific point that theyve raised, it shouldnt 
be taken that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read and considered all 
information and evidence provided by both T and Danske  but rather that I dont feel it 
necessary to address that specific point in the context of my final decision. 
Similarly, I note that T has requested that I speak with their solicitor regarding certain 
aspects of this complaint. This isnt a step that this service would usually make, and it isnt 
one that I feel is merited in this situation. And I say this both because Im satisfied that I 
already have all the information I require to allow me to make a final decision, and also 
because this service is not a Court of Law and doesnt operate in the manner of a Court of 
Law.
To reiterate, my role as an Ombudsman in this instance is to decide, based on all the 
evidence and information available to me, whether I feel that the decision made by Danske 
to decline to open the type of trust account that T requested is unfair or unreasonable, within 
the context of this complaint.
T have confirmed they approached Danske because Danske have the only branch in Mr Ts 
local area and therefore the only branch that is readily physically accessible for him. And T 
have again stressed the importance of this point given Mr Ts disabilities and the physical 
limitations they impose.
T have also stated again that Mr T feels that Danske are discriminating against him by 
refusing to open the trust account, and they note that its their understanding that their 
solicitor has recommended to other clients to open trust accounts with Danske, all of which 
have been opened by Danske without incident.
I can appreciate Ts position here, and I understand fully the reason that T want to open a 
trust account with Danske, given the reasons above. However, having re-reviewed all of the 
information available to me, and having taken the additional points raised by T into 
consideration, it remains my decision that Danske are entitled to decline Ts application to 
open a trust account.
Furthermore, I remain satisfied that the reasons Danske provided to this service as to why 
they made such a decision  as detailed in my provisional decision letter  are reasonable, 
and that the decision made by Danske was a commercial decision and wasnt in any way 
discriminatory against Mr T.I must also point out that, while it may be the case that other applicants have applied for trust 
accounts with Danske that have been approved, it doesnt necessarily follow from this that 
Ts account should and must be approved by Danske. And I say this because it is highly 
likely that there are elements which differ across applications, such as, for instance, the 
branch at which the trust account would be administered, which Danske have explained was 
a factor in their decision in this instance.
I also dont accept the assertion made by T that Danske having concerns about the ability of 
a relatively small branch to monitor and administer the trust account being applied for 
represents a failure of Danske to have adequately trained staff. And I say this because I 
dont consider it unusual that the staff at a small branch of a bank wouldnt have been 
trained and upskilled to be able to deal with every product that the bank offers.
Ultimately, while I sympathise with Mr Ts position here, it remains the case that I dont feel 
that its within the remit of this service to compel a business to open an account for a 
customer when that business has made a legitimate commercial decision not to do so. 
And while I appreciate that it would be highly preferable for T to open an account with 
Danske, for the reasons T have explained, I dont feel that this overrides Danskes right to 
make a legitimate commercial decision  which Im satisfied that Danske have made here - 
to not offer such a product and service to T at this time.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that T were wanting here, but it follows from this that 
my final decision will be that I do not uphold this complaint and that I wont be instructing 
Danske to take any further action at this time. I hope that T can understand, given what I 
have explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman