DRN-3517045
The complaint
Ms B complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund money she lost as a result of a 
scam.
What happened
Ms B started communicating with someone on a dating application. Ill refer to this person as 
G. G said they were a businessman based in another country. After gaining her trust, G 
offered to teach Ms B how to invest in cryptocurrency. 
G instructed Ms B how to purchase cryptocurrency and transfer it to a trading platform. Once 
on the trading platform, G would advise Ms B when to buy and sell cryptocurrency. G even 
showed Ms B how to withdraw money  though she was only ever able to do this once and 
only for a small amount. 
Ms B says she was instructed to pay various different payees, based in several different 
countries. She sent most of the payments through her Wise account, which was opened on 
18 November 2020.
Between 21 November 2020 and 16 December 2020, she instructed Wise to make twelve 
payments to three different beneficiaries. The sequence of payments is relevant to my 
decision, so Ive set them out below:
21-30 November 2020  six payments totalling 43,000 NZD to Payee 1
1 and 7 December 2020  two payments totalling 30,000 NZD to Payee 2
816 December  five payments totalling 75,000 NZD to Payee 3
On 30 November, Payee 1 was blacklisted by Wise, meaning they could no longer receive 
payments through its platform. 
Ms B says that around 5 December 2020 she accepted an account upgrade from the 
trading platform without being told that shed now need to have a substantial minimum 
account balance or face daily penalties. Ms B, after being told that she could not close her 
account and withdraw her money without increasing the balance, agreed to make further 
payments to her account to bring the balance up.  
Her final payment  made on 16 December 2021 was stopped by Wise for fraud checks, but 
after a short conversation with Ms B, it was released and sent to the beneficiary. 
Ms B reported shed been the victim of a scam on 5 January 2021. Wise asked for a police 
report, but when this wasnt received, they closed the case. On 8 January 2021 it received a 
report from Ms Bs bank attempting to recall some of the funds. Wise said the funds had 
already been sent on so it couldnt return them. 
In April 2021, Wise gave its response to the complaint. It said that it wasnt responsible for 
what had happened as Ms B had made the payments herself and it was unable to recover 
them.
Ms B referred the complaint to our service and one of our investigators upheld it in part. 
They thought Wise should have contacted Ms B after Payee 1 was blacklisted and, had they 
done so, the scam was more than likely to have come to light and Ms Bs loss would have 
been prevented. They also thought Wise hadnt done enough when it discussed the final 
payment with Ms B.
 
Wise disagreed, it said it wasnt practical to expect it to contact every customer that had 
made payments to an account which it had blacklisted. It said that Ms B would have seen a 
message when she tried to pay Payee 1 again but hadnt contacted it to ask why she 
couldnt make any further payments. This led them to conclude that Ms B was simply 
following the fraudsters instructions and wouldnt have responded to a warning.
 
It acknowledged that one of the reasons that her payment on 16 December 2020 was 
blocked was because she had made an attempt to send funds to previous recipients who 
had been blacklisted, but, it argued, this was only one factor that it considered and by this 
point Ms B had a history of making large overseas payments. 
It also noted that at the point of the call on 16 December 2021, Ms B was concerned about 
incurring daily penalties on her investment, so it doubted the extent to which an intervention 
would have made a difference to Ms Bs decision to keep making payments. 
Our investigator disputed the suggestion that Ms B had attempted to make a payment to 
Payee 1 after they were blacklisted, instead they said that the fraudster had simply directed 
Ms B to pay a new payee. 
Wise thought this was too coincidental and, as no agreement could be reached, the case 
was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Ms B authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of her account she is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ms B only opened her Wise account for the purpose of sending money to the fraudulent 
trading platform. So, Wise had no genuine account activity to compare her payments 
against. Its also true that many of Wises customers will use their accounts in the way that 
she did  to send one or more payment in another currency to a payee overseas. 
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it could have reasonably believed that the 
payments made before 1 December 2020 were part of a scam. However, when Ms B 
attempted a payment on 1 December 2020, it had acquired knowledge that it hadnt had 
before  specifically that there was sufficient concern about the payee Ms B had been 
paying that Wise had taken the decision to ban its customers from sending payments to that 
payee. 
I think this meant it had constructive notice that Ms Bs previous account activity may have 
been linked to fraud. Wise argues that it would have been too burdensome to require it to 
contact each and every customer who had made payments to a blacklisted account every 
time it did this. But, I dont think it needed to do this to prevent Ms Bs loss  it only needed 
to provide a warning to her when she tried to make another payment, to a new payee, 
following broadly the same pattern as her earlier payments. I think there was significant risk 
in allowing her to continue to make payments and I think Wise ought to have intervened, 
particularly given the substantial size of the payments. 
Whether Ms B tried to make another payment to Payee 1 and was presented with an error 
(as Wise allege, seemingly without evidence) or whether she was simply directed to make 
payments to Payee 2 by the fraudster (as Ms B claims) is, I think, immaterial. The message 
that Wise said she would have seen gives no indication that she is at risk by making the 
payment. 
Its also apparent that Wise does take into account previous payments to blacklisted payees 
when it decides whether to carry out additional checks on a payment. So, while Wises ability 
or otherwise to take such a factor into account is not determinative here, it was clearly within 
its capabilities to do so.  
Having thought carefully about this matter, given the information Wise knew, I think it needed 
to do more than provide a written warning, even one tailored to investment scams. I think it 
had reasonable grounds to suspect Ms B was at risk and it should have spoken to her to 
understand more about the context of the payments and to provide a tailored and dynamic 
warning. 
Ive gone onto consider whether such an intervention by Wise would have made a difference 
to Ms Bs decision to make the payment on 1 December 2020 (and all subsequent 
payments). 
Wise argue that Ms Bs eagerness to make the payment on 16 December 2020 to avoid 
incurring fees shows that she wouldnt have heeded a warning. But, Im suggesting it should 
have intervened earlier  on the payment made on 1 December 2020. This was before the 
fraudsters had threatened her with incurring fees  so I cant put much weight on her later 
urgency to make the payment.
The scam had many of the hallmarks of a type of scam that has become increasingly 
common  meeting the victim on a dating application and persuading them to become 
involved in cryptocurrency trading. The trading account aspect of the scam also had 
common features  the unregulated trading platform, initial profits and ability to withdraw and the victim not fully understanding nor making any real decisions about what to trade and 
when. 
Id expect Wise, as a payment service provider, to have been fully aware of such scams and 
their common features. Had Wise discussed the matter with Ms B, I see no reason why she 
wouldnt have mentioned some or all of the information above, which (along with its existing 
knowledge of the recipient) ought to have given Wise significant cause for concern. She 
certainly believes (in hindsight) that had she been presented with a tailored scam warning 
she would have stopped. The only evidence of what might have happened is the call which 
took place on 16 December 2020  but Wise didnt ask anything about the circumstances 
surrounding the payment and other than Ms Bs eagerness to make the payment (which, as 
Ive explained, may not have been present at an earlier point) gives little indication of how 
amenable Ms B would have been to a warning.
While I do  take into account the fact that Ms B trusted G, I think on balance, given how 
apparent it ought to have been to Wise that Ms B was falling victim to a scam and in the 
absence of any evidence that Ms B would have misled Wise, an intervention is likely to have 
made a difference and her further loss would have been prevented. 
Ive also considered Ms Bs role in what happened. As Ive noted, G clearly built up trust with 
Ms B over time and appears to have both coached her and provided reassurance. She 
believed that she was being offered a business opportunity  not by someone who would 
look to gain themselves (or was connected to the fraudulent investment platform) but rather 
a friend and someone who wanted to help her make money. I can also understand why, as a 
layperson, the fraudulent trading platform and her interactions with its customer services 
would have seemed convincing.
I know that on or around 5 December 2020, Ms B had been told that her account had been 
locked and that she needed to make payments to bring it up to a required minimum balance 
to avoid paying fees. I understand Ms B had accepted an account upgrade without realising 
what the implications of this were.
Ive thought carefully about Ms Bs decision to try and meet the demands of the fraudster. 
She was clearly put in a very difficult position and undoubtedly the sudden request to 
substantially increase her account balance was both concerning and unexpected. However, 
Ive reviewed both evidence of the conversations she had with the fraudster and her 
testimony and I dont think that at the time she suspected that she might be the victim of 
fraud. Instead, it appears that she was simply concerned about having become involved in 
something that she didnt, perhaps, fully understand and was worried about losing her 
money. I also note that G told her that he was in the same position and even appeared to 
lend her funds in order to meet the requirement, which, I think, gave credibility to the 
fraudsters demands. 
So, while in hindsight this was a clear attempt to extract more deposits from Ms B and 
prevent her from withdrawing funds, I can understand how to Ms B, or someone else in her 
position with her knowledge and experience, the reasoning the fraudster gave for this, as 
well as the way in which their demands were given credibility by G, would have seemed 
convincing. I also note that the fraudulent investment platform actually started to deduct fees 
from her account once the deadline passed. 
So, overall, I dont think Ms B acted unreasonably and I dont think there should be a 
deduction from the amount Wise should refund. 
Finally, Ive considered Wises attempts to recover Ms Bs funds. Wise didnt try to recover 
Ms Bs funds at the time of the transactions because it said it needed a police report from Ms B. I understand this has now been provided to Wise. While I think Wise might have 
requested the return of funds without this, the prospect of recovery was, in any case, always 
going to be remote  given the high probability that the funds would have already been spent 
or moved on by the time the scam was reported and the possibility that the recipient bank 
would not return the funds without the permission of their account holder. So, I dont think its 
actions in this regard are likely to have caused any loss to Ms B.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided that Wise should refund in full each 
payment Ms B made after and including the payment on 1 December 2020.
In relation to interest, Ive reached a slightly different finding to that of the investigator. The 
money Ms B sent came from a mixture of savings accounts and investments. But for the 
scam, it appears the money would have remained where it was, so an interest award should 
aim to put Ms B, as far as possible, back in the position she would have been had the scam 
not taken place. 
Ive reviewed evidence provided by Ms B which shows that, over the relevant period, the 
performance of her investments was, at best, mixed. Her savings accounts appear to 
currently pay between 1.35% and 1.59%. Its not practical for me to work out exactly what 
her position would be, but taking into account the evidence Ive seen as well as whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I think interest of 1% simple per 
annum should be paid from the date of each transaction to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Wise Payments Limited to pay:
- Each payment Ms B made after and including the payment made on 1 December 
2020  a total of 105,000 NZD
- 1% simple interest per annum on each refunded payment from the date of the 
payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman