DRN-2615160
The complaint
The estate of Mr T is unhappy that TSB Bank plc failed to close the late Mr Ts account and 
continued to send correspondence to his parents address, despite being notified of his death 
in 2016.
What happened
The late Mr T held accounts with TSB. Sadly, Mr T passed away in 2016. Following this, his 
parents visited a TSB branch with a copy of Mr Ts death certificate in order to close the 
accounts.
Unfortunately, the accounts werent closed, and correspondence continued to be sent to the 
parents address. This was a source of considerable distress, and so a formal complaint was 
made to TSB in August 2020.
TSB didnt uphold the complaint. They said that they had no record of being told that Mr T 
had passed away in 2016, so they didnt feel that they had made an error. However, TSB did 
confirm that the accounts would be closed and that no further correspondence would be 
generated.
The estate of Mr T wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, especially seeing as how some 
letters were received by the parents after TSB said theyd closed the accounts. So, they 
referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. While sympathetic to the circumstances 
here, our investigator noted that TSB had already closed the accounts. Our investigator also 
noted that it isnt possible for this service to award compensation for distress to the estate of 
a deceased person. So, they felt unable to uphold this complaint.
The estate of Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin, Id like to echo the sympathies already expressed by our investigator here, and I 
realise that the continued receipt of correspondence addressed to Mr T would be upsetting 
for his parents. However, having completed my review, I find that Ive had to reach the same 
outcome as our investigator, and for the same reasons.
Our investigator was correct to point out the limitations that this service faces when 
assessing complaints such as this, and it is the case that this service is unable to award 
compensation for distress and upset to the estate of a deceased person.
What this service can do in circumstances such as this is instruct the business to take the 
necessary action to ensure that the situation causing the distress doesnt continue. But TSB 
have already done that here  theyve closed the accounts and have sent this service proof 
to that effect. So, theres nothing more for this service to instruct in this instance.
Im aware that some letters were received after TSB said that they would close the accounts, 
but it can the case that letters can be pre-loaded into mailer systems such that closing the 
account wouldnt stop these already generated letters being sent. And I think thats what 
happened here, especially considering that TSB explained that some letters might be 
received in the period shortly after the accounts were closed.
I appreciate that this wont be the outcome that The estate of Mr T was wanting, but while I 
sympathise with the circumstances here, it follows from the above that Im unable to uphold 
this complaint, for the reasons I have already explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman