DRN-3839817
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) declined his claim for accidental 
damage to his laptop.
What happened
Mr A bought gadget insurance underwritten by GLI to provide cover for his laptop. He 
claimed under the policy after the laptop was accidentally pushed off a worktop to the hard 
floor.
GLI asked Mr A for lots of further information, including: an explanation of how the accident 
happened; confirmation that the laptop was in full working condition before the accident; 
evidence of maintenance, and evidence of repairs. Mr A provided most of the information, 
but he refused to provide evidence of maintenance because he believed it to be irrelevant to 
the claim.
GLI referenced several terms within the policy to show why it was asking for the information, 
but Mr A didnt think maintenance, or any modifications, were relevant to his claim for 
accidental damage.
Mr A complained to GLI and it tried to explain why it wanted the information it asked for. 
However, Mr A felt hed been subjected to racial bias by its decision to ask for more 
information. GLI said the accusation was unfounded.
Just over two weeks after Mr A made his claim, GLI declined it because hed failed to 
provide sufficient supporting evidence.
To resolve his complaint, Mr A wanted GLI to apologise, refund his policy premium, 
reimburse the full cost of his laptop, and pay compensation for his time.
Our investigator didnt think GLI had handled Mr As claim in line with the policy, but she 
didnt identify any evidence that hed been singled out because of his race. She said GLI 
was responsible for confirming last usage of the laptop, but she agreed that GLI was entitled 
to seek information it considered relevant to its investigation of the claim. In recognition of 
the shortfalls, our investigator proposed £75 compensation for the inconvenience caused 
and she thought GLI should consider Mr As claim once it received the maintenance report.
Both Mr A and GLI disagreed. 
Mr A said hed provided GLI with evidence that his laptop was working at the time of the 
accident. Because his claim was for accidental damage, not a repair, he remained of the 
opinion that the maintenance report was irrelevant. Further, Mr A said GLI only avoided a 
data protection breach because he made the agent aware during the call. 
GLI said it dealt with the claim promptly and there was no request for Mr A to provide 
evidence of usage as that wouldve been obtained by its engineers had the claim been 
approved. GLI didnt think any compensation was warranted.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr As complaint. While Ive upheld the complaint, which 
is the same outcome as that proposed by our investigator, Im minded to require slightly 
different action of GLI. Therefore, I think its fair and reasonable for both parties to have a 
further opportunity to comment.
Firstly, Ill clarify the responsibilities of each party when a claim is raised. Here, it was Mr As 
responsibility to show that an insured event happened. I think hes satisfied that requirement 
by providing a photo of the set-up of the kitchen worktop, his damaged laptop, and 
describing how the accident happened.
It then became GLIs responsibility to either settle the claim or show why one or more of the 
policy exclusions applied. Ultimately, GLI declined the claim for the following reason:
Insufficient Supporting evidence.  You were asked to provide documentation about 
maintenance performed on your device As you have failed to provide this information 
the decision has been made to decline your claim.
Information request
For GLI to determine whether the damage is covered under the policy, it needs to satisfy 
itself that the damage was caused in the way that Mr A described. So GLI is entitled to ask 
Mr A for any information it considers relevant to the claim.
The sticking point with Mr As claim is that he doesnt think the maintenance work he had 
done to his laptop is relevant. GLI does.  As Mr A confirmed hed had some maintenance 
work on his laptop, I cant say it was unreasonable for GLI to ask for evidence of what was 
done. Thats because GLI might determine that the maintenance work was a contributing 
factor to the extent of damage caused when the laptop was pushed from the worktop. 
Equally, it may be able to tell from the evidence that the laptop was well-maintained and kept 
in good working order. 
So, I cant say GLI was looking for a reason to decline the claim, as Mr A believed. If Mr A 
has evidence of maintenance/taking care of his laptop, it may be helpful for him to provide it 
for GLIs consideration in support of his claim. But, as GLI hadnt inspected the laptop before 
asking for the information, its not clear why it deemed it necessary so early on. Therefore, I 
dont agree that GLI should only consider the claim once Mr A provides the information 
because it may not be needed.Profiling
I understand Mr A feels strongly that GLI only asked for the maintenance report after racial 
profiling so it could decline the claim. He doesnt think GLI wouldve asked other groups of 
customers for the same information. This is a point Mr A raised directly with GLI, which it 
denied immediately.
Mr A hasnt said why he feels racial profiling affected GLIs handling of his claim and, when 
he asked for details, GLI confirmed it didnt carry out any profiling. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr As comments. Having considered the evidence, including 
listening to the calls between Mr A and GLI, I havent identified anything to indicate that GLI 
asked for information it wouldnt have asked any other customer in similar circumstances. 
So, in the absence of any evidence, I cant reasonably say GLI did anything wrong or that Mr 
A was singled out in any way.
It appears that this matter became a sticking point because Mr A refused to provide the 
evidence. While GLI might not have needed it at that point, or possibly at all, it seems the 
refusal raised questions about the validity of Mr As claim. GLI explained that Mr A had 
raised his claim within a short time of buying the policy, and he bought the policy after hed 
had his laptop for several months. So, I can understand why GLI mightve become uncertain. 
GLI explained this to Mr A during one of the calls.
So, having considered the overall circumstances, while I dont think it was fair for GLI to hold 
up the claim because Mr A didnt provide evidence of maintenance, I cant see that its 
request for information was based on anything other than uncertainty about the validity of the 
claim. 
Usage
GLI said there was no request for Mr A to provide evidence of usage. I disagree. 
In a call lasting almost 40 minutes on 1 April, GLI asks Mr A for evidence of usage. Mr A had 
already provided what he thought evidenced usage right up to the time of the accident, but 
GLIs agent disagreed and explained how he could obtain clearer evidence. Discussion 
around this became difficult.
The policy states:
Proof of Usage 
Means evidence that shows the gadget has been in use since policy inception and up to 
the event giving rise to the claim For other gadgets, such as laptops, in the event of an 
accidental damage claim this must be determined through inspection by the 
Administrators selected repairer.
What is not covered
6. any claim where proof of usage cannot be provided or evidenced (applicable only 
where the gadget is a SIM enabled device or in respect of a laptop/tablet upon 
inspection). 
Its clear that Mr A was not required to provide proof of usage under the terms and 
conditions of the policy, and that it would, in fact, be determined by GLI on inspection. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that GLIs request for Mr A to demonstrate usage was unfair and 
warrants compensation.Phone verification
Mr A told GLIs claims handler during one of his calls that they hadnt completed the proper 
verification checks. Having listened to the call I can understand why he said that. However, I 
havent identified any evidence that the matter caused Mr A any loss that needs to be put 
right. Therefore, I wont be asking GLI to do anything in respect of this point. 
Declined claim
I can see that GLI gave Mr A various reasons to say why it didnt think his claim would be 
covered, although it eventually declined the claim because of insufficient supporting 
evidence.
Ive looked at how GLI shouldve handled the claim. 
The policy defines accidental damage as:
the sudden unforeseen and unintentional damage to your gadget. This includes damage 
to screens and damage resulting from sudden and unforeseen liquid damage.
Once Mr A provided evidence that his laptop was damaged, and his account of events  
hurriedly putting a hot tray down which knocked the laptop to the floor  met the definition of 
an accident, GLI shouldve inspected the laptop. I see it challenged the way the accident 
happened, and it gave reasons the policy wouldnt cover the damage, such as failing to take 
reasonable precautions to prevent risk, but GLI didnt decline the claim for those reasons 
and it hasnt demonstrated that the exclusions apply here.
Putting things right 
Overall, it would be reasonable for GLI to pay £75 compensation for the shortfall in service, 
and reconsider Mr As claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. In doing so, it 
can establish usage and investigate the type of damage against Mr As description of events. 
I said I was minded to require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
 
pay £75 compensation, and
consider Mr As claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
GLI said there was no request for Mr A to provide evidence of usage as that wouldve been 
obtained by its engineers had the claim been approved. GLI also said it declined the claim 
promptly considering there was some doubt about the validity of the claim, and given Mr As 
accusations. As the whole process was completed within 17 days, GLI didnt think 
compensation was warranted.
Mr A repeated many of his original complaint points, going on to ask how Id feel if treated 
the same way. That said, he generally agreed with the direction of my provisional decision, 
but he didnt think GLI could be trusted to consider his claim fairly under the terms of the 
policy. He asked me to require an independent assessment of his claim and to increase the 
compensation significantly to reflect the loss of use of his laptop and his feeling of being 
treated unfairly.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. However, Ill address the further comments made by both parties now.
GLI said it didnt ask Mr A for usage evidence. I addressed this point in my provisional 
decision under the heading Usage, explaining GLI did in fact ask Mr A for evidence. So, I 
cant agree with GLIs comment.
GLI said it dealt with the claim promptly, so compensation isnt warranted. I didnt propose 
compensation for any delays  I said it was warranted because of the way it handled the 
matter of evidence of usage. GLI confirmed again that its technicians wouldve identified 
usage, as set out in the policy, so it shouldnt have insisted on Mr A providing the 
information.
I looked again at the evidence and, although I summarised his points above, Ill address Mr 
As comments now, as a whole.
I agreed that GLI hadnt handled Mr As claim in line with the policy, with specific reference 
to the request for evidence of usage. I also agreed it neednt have insisted on the 
maintenance evidence before even looking at Mr As laptop. Mr A said maintenance is not 
the same as repairs, but I dont think thats important here. In my provisional decision, I said 
GLI was entitled to ask for information it considered relevant, and maintenance records may 
well be relevant. But I didnt think it could reasonably say that without first having inspected 
the laptop.
Although Mr A asked how Id feel if my claim were handled this way, that doesnt have any 
relevance to his complaint. I have no reason to doubt that Mr A felt GLIs treatment of him 
throughout the process was due to racial bias, and Im sorry to hear that. But, while I dont 
wish to appear dismissive of his concerns, Ive simply not seen any evidence that GLI 
treated him any differently than it would other groups of customers. GLI didnt handle the 
claim well, but Im also mindful of the fact that Mr As tone during calls was heated and 
became quite accusatory. I can understand that he was frustrated with GLIs repeated 
requests for evidence he didnt think it shouldve asked for, but I dont think his manner 
helped matters.
In all, Im satisfied that the compensation I proposed is fair and reasonable for GLIs 
unreasonable requests for Mr A to provide evidence of usage. The compensation is not to 
address any delays, nor is it to address Mr As accusation of racial bias, so I see no reason 
to increase it.
As a final point, Mr A asked me to require an independent consideration of his claim 
because he doesnt trust GLI to consider his claim fairly. If Mr A accepts my final decision, 
GLI will be required to consider his claim under the remaining terms of the policy. It must do 
that fairly, so I wont be asking for an independent review. However, if Mr A is unhappy with 
GLIs consideration of his claim, he may make a further complaint and follow the same 
process as he did here. 
But I should be clear about what my requirement for GLI to reconsider his claim means. GLI 
declined Mr As claim because it said hed failed to provide sufficient supporting evidence. I 
decided that it wasnt fair to do so, and that means GLI cant rely on this same reason to 
decline Mr As claim.If it finds that another policy exclusion applies, it can decline Mr As claim. And Mr A is 
entitled to consider whether its reasons for doing so are reasonable. Equally, GLI may 
reconsider the claim and decide to accept it. My decision isnt in anticipation of a specific 
outcome  it simply reflects that I agree with Mr A that GLI declined his claim unfairly first-
time round.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr As 
complaint and Great Lakes Insurance SE must:
pay £75 compensation, and
consider Mr As claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman