DRN-3047533
The complaint
Miss J, Mrs J, Mr J and Mr P complain that AWP P&C SA wrongly told them their travel 
insurance policy had been invalidated.
As Mr J has brought the complaint, for simplicity, Ive referred mainly to him throughout this 
decision.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr J took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker. The policy 
cost £177.40 and was bought to cover a trip Mr J and his family had booked between 19 and 
31 August 2020.
Unfortunately, in mid-July 2020, Mr P was admitted to hospital suffering from symptoms of 
drug withdrawal. He was discharged around 10 days later. Mr J contacted AWP to let it know 
about Mr Ps hospital admission. AWP told Mr J to call to declare the condition. Mr J did so 
on 11 August 2020 and was wrongly told that as a result of Mr Ps drug withdrawal, the 
whole policy was invalidated. Mr J was told hed need to arrange alternative insurance. Mr J 
accepted that the policy had effectively been voided.
Mr J was able to obtain a new policy with a separate insurer later on 11 August 2020, at an 
increased cost of £224.75. He was very unhappy that hed been wrongly informed that the 
policy had been invalidated, as he considered there was no term in the contract which 
allowed AWP to void a policy on these grounds.
AWP accepted that it hadnt been entitled to invalidate Mr Js policy. It offered to refund the 
full cost of Mr Js policy, together with the difference between the price of his original policy 
and the replacement policy. And it offered to pay Mr J £25 compensation to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr J was unhappy with AWPs offer and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
considered that AWP had acted fraudulently.
Our investigator thought AWPs overall offer was fair. He felt the offer was enough to put Mr 
J in the position he wouldve been in but for its error in informing Mr J that the policy was 
void. And he noted Mr J had been able to arrange a replacement policy on the same day 
AWP had incorrectly voided the original policy. So he felt £25 compensation was enough to 
recognise the distress Mr Js family had been caused as a result of AWPs error. 
Mr J disagreed and Ive summarised his detailed responses to the investigator. He felt the 
investigator had failed to understand the impact of AWPs fraud had had on the family, 
given its proximity to the holiday start date. He didnt feel that AWP had cared whether or not 
the family had to cancel their holiday. It hadnt offered to refund the premium upfront  it 
hasnt made such an offer until Mr J made a complaint. He stated the policy hadnt come to 
an end as a result of AWPs actions  it was because hed accepted its repudiatory breach of 
contract. He felt that AWP couldve offered him a new policy. But it hadnt done so, because 
it hadnt recognised its mistake until after Mr J had taken out new insurance and the holiday 
had been completed. He considered that the £25 compensation AWP had offered was 
disgraceful, as was its conduct. He didnt believe that any reasonable decision maker could 
conclude otherwise. He felt the investigators opinion was perverse.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, Ive decided that AWPs offer of redress 
is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr J that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and his detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. In making 
my decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and our rules dont 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Its important that I make the role of this service clear. Were not the industry regulator. As 
such, we have no power to punish or fine the financial businesses we cover. Our role is to 
investigate individual complaints brought by a consumers to decide whether a financial 
business has made an error and if so, what, if any, action it needs to take to put things right.
In this case, theres no dispute that when Mr J spoke with AWP, it wrongly told him that as a 
result of the medical declaration hed made on Mr Ps behalf, his whole policy had been 
invalidated. There is simply no term in the policy which entitled AWP to take this course of 
action. The contract states that AWP wont cover claims which arise due to:
(A policyholder) being under the influence of alcohol, of solvents or drugs, or doing anything 
as a result of using these substances (except drugs prescribed by a doctor but not for the 
treatment of drug addiction).
Mr J was aware of this clause and that claims related to Mr Ps drug withdrawal wouldnt be 
covered. He simply wanted to ensure that Mr Ps admission had been noted and to check 
that Mr P and the rest of the insured party would still be covered for events which werent 
related to drug withdrawal. In my view, Mr Js understanding of the contract was clearly the 
correct one. AWP ought to have informed Mr J that while claims related to drug withdrawal 
wouldnt be covered, the policy remained in force and AWP would remain on risk for any 
insured event prior to and during the planned holiday. 
Its clear then that the misinformation AWP provided to Mr J led him to tacitly accept its 
decision. I accept though that given the proximity to the start of the holiday, Mr J likely felt he 
had little choice but to do so, to allow him to find new cover. This led to him needing to look 
for a new travel insurance policy, at short notice, when AWP was aware he and his family 
had already been though a distressing situation. On this basis, AWP made a clear error of 
fact and misinterpreted the terms of its own contract with Mr J. This caused Mr J not just 
further upset, but also financial loss.
I need to decide then, what fair and reasonable redress should be, in the circumstances of 
Mr Js complaint. If AWP had correctly informed Mr J that the policy remained valid, it simply 
wouldnt cover any claims related to drug withdrawal, on balance, Im satisfied Mr J wouldve 
made use of the original policy. However, as a result of the mis-information, Mr J purchased 
a replacement policy, which in total cost around £45 more than the policy Mr J had had with 
AWP. I accept it didnt initially offer to refund the premium Mr J had paid for his original policy. I note though that AWP had been covering the risk of Mr J and his family needing to 
make a cancellation claim since the policy was taken out on 11 March 2020, which meant Mr 
J had derived some benefit for the five month period in which the period had been in force. A 
pro-rata refund to recognise the remaining time on risk is likely to have been somewhat 
lower than the premium Mr J had paid.
However, AWP has agreed to refund the full costs of Mr Js policy with it, which I think is a 
fair and appropriate response in the circumstances. I say that because but for its error, I find 
its highly unlikely that Mr J wouldve cancelled his policy with it. And I also think it was 
entirely appropriate for AWP to include a refund for the additional cost of the replacement 
policy. Thats because if AWP hadnt wrongly advised Mr P about his cover, Im persuaded 
he wouldnt have needed to buy a new policy. Im satisfied then that this offer puts Mr J in 
the financial position he wouldve been in but for AWPs error.
AWP has offered Mr J £25 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. I appreciate 
how strongly Mr J feels that this amount is wholly insufficient. In considering what fair 
compensation for a consumers trouble and upset looks like though, I need to bear in mind 
what I think the overall impact of a business error was. 
Here, I have no doubt that it mustve been very worrying for Mr J and his family when they 
learned, eight days before their planned departure, that their insurer wasnt prepared to offer 
cover. I understand that if they hadnt been able to source alternative insurance, theyd have 
cancelled the trip. But Ive also carefully considered the fact that Mr J was able to find a new 
policy on the same day that he was wrongly told his policy with AWP was invalid. So while 
Im persuaded this was a stressful situation, especially on top of Mr Ps recent 
hospitalisation, I think the duration of that worry was necessarily limited. And by Mr Js 
account, the holiday took place as planned, meaning that AWPs error didnt ultimately affect 
the familys ability to take their trip. 
Ive considered too that it took AWP a couple of months to offer Mr J a refund of his 
premium. And I acknowledge he was therefore out of pocket for that time. We generally take 
the view that loss of use of money should be compensated, at an annual rate of 8% simple. 
Given that Mr Js loss was £224.75 (the cost of the new policy) for around two months, a rate 
of 8% produces a compensation figure of around £3. 
Overall, given the amount by which he was out of pocket and the limited time the family was 
without cover, I think £25 to recognise Mr J and his familys upset is fair in the 
circumstances.
Overall, I find that AWP didnt correctly interpret the terms of its contract with Mr J and it 
gave wrong information, which inevitably led Mr J and his family to suffer some additional 
distress. But I find that its taken fair and reasonable steps to put things right. So Im not 
directing AWP to do anything more.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J, Mrs J, Mr J 
and Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman