DRN-2834226
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC prevented them accessing their 
accounts and about how it dealt with their requests for new account cards.
 
What happened
Mr R says he called Barclays in December 2020 to order a new account card as his hadnt 
been automatically renewed. He says without the account card he couldnt access online 
banking. Mr R says the calls to Barclays were ended and he didnt receive call backs. He 
says he received poor service from Barclays and couldnt use the account for Christmas. Mr 
R also says he then received the wrong PIN.
Barclays says it acted in line with account terms and conditions by not automatically 
renewing an account card when its not been used. But it accepts it didnt deal appropriately 
with Mr Rs and Mrs Cs request as it should have. Its apologised and paid £45 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and paid £20 for the international call costs. Barclays 
has offered a further £25 for the PIN mistake.
Mr R and Mrs C brought their complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation 
paid was fair and reasonable. The investigator thought Barclays was entitled in line with 
account terms and conditions to decide not to renew the account card and that we couldnt 
order Barclays to change that process.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and in summary says he would like Barclays to make sure this 
problem doesnt happen for a third time. He says this complaint has now been turned into a 
criminal offence that will need to be passed to the Police and the Crown Prosecution Service 
(CPS).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr R and Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision and how 
strongly they feel about this complaint.
I make clear to Mr R and Mrs C that we are not Barclays regulator and so its not our role to 
tell it to change its policies about these issues. And we cant order it to prevent, as Mr R 
says, the same problem happening for a third time. I also cant comment on what Mr R says 
about a potential criminal offence and in any event, I dont think its clear why he believes 
there has been a theft.
I have looked at Barclays account terms and conditions which I think Mr R and Mrs C would 
have agreed to when the accounts were first opened. Those terms and conditions make 
clear that Barclays may decide not to automatically renew an account card when an account 
hasnt been used. I think its up to Barclays to make such decisions when exercising its 
commercial judgement and it follows that I dont think it acted unfairly or made a mistake by 
not renewing the account card or cards here.
I appreciate Mr R spent some time trying to order a new card and that calls ended before he 
was able to sort matters out. I accept Mr R was caused inconvenience. But Im satisfied 
Barclays has fairly apologised for what took place and has paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount of £45. Im satisfied that award fairly reflects what took 
place and that Mr R and Mrs C didnt suffer any financial loss. I dont think it clear if Mr R or 
Mrs C had access to other accounts or that Mr R has told us if this Barclays account was his 
main account. Im also satisfied Barclays has fairly reimbursed the call costs.
I accept Barclays made a mistake about the correct PIN. I have no doubt that caused further 
inconvenience, But I can see Barclays has apologised for that mistake and offered a further 
£25 compensation. Im satisfied that offer is fair and reasonable.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays made mistakes dealing with what ought to have been a 
simple request for new account cards and PINs. But Im also satisfied its apologised and 
paid and offered a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. I also hope Mr R and Mrs C 
will appreciate what our role is here and that we cant order measures to be taken to prevent 
future problems. I find this brings and end to what in trying to resolve this dispute informally 
can do and leave it to Mr R to decide if he wishes to accept the £25 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and find that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £25. Mrs C and Mr Rs 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman