DRN-4286655
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined a claim he made under 
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M returned from holiday and realised hed forgotten his trainers and had left them behind 
in his hotel room. He contacted the hotel who confirmed theyd found them. 
Mr M made a claim to Great Lakes, his travel insurer, and asked them to reimburse the £125 
he paid for the shoes.
Great Lakes didnt accept Mr Ms claim. They said he knew where his trainers were, so he 
hadnt suffered a loss. They also referred to an exclusion in the policy which said the loss 
wouldnt be covered if the items were recovered.
Mr M argues he knows where the shoes are, but he says they were lost until the hotel found 
them. As Mr M remained unhappy, he approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint but she didnt uphold it. She said 
Mr Ms shoes arent lost as they have been found, and the policy terms exclude claims for 
losses where the lost items are recovered.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr M, Ive reached 
the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr Ms travel policy with Great Lakes provides cover for the loss or theft of personal 
possessions (subject to terms and conditions and policy limits).
I accept that Mr M doesnt currently have the shoes in his possession, as they are still at the 
hotel where he left them. But Mr M knows where the shoes are, so the whereabouts of them 
isnt unknown. The policy terms also say:
What is not covered

4. Any loss or theft of Your Personal Possessions which are subsequently 
recovered.
Mr Ms shoes dont remain unrecovered, or in an unknown location. And whilst the shoes 
arent in Mr Ms possession at this time, they have been recovered by the hotel and he 
knows where they are, so they arent lost. Therefore, I dont think Great Lakes has acted 
unfairly by declining Mr Ms claim.
Mr M argues that because he went to the effort of confirming they were with the hotel, he 
thinks its unfair to decline the claim on the basis the location is known. But the fact remains 
that the policy covers a loss, but Mr M hasnt suffered a loss of the shoes as he knows 
where they are, and he could likely arrange with the hotel to have them returned.
Mr M also says that his items were lost until they were found, and if his items were stolen, or 
lost without him knowing where they were, then hed be able to claim. This may be the case. 
But Mr Ms items werent stolen, or unrecovered, they were left behind and he knows where 
they are.
With this in mind, I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly by declining Mr Ms claim.
Mr M has also said it took time for Great Lakes to issue a final response and they sent this 
on the last day which caused a delay of two months. Whilst I recognise Mr M may have 
wanted an answer sooner, under the Financial Conduct Authority complaint handling rules, 
Great Lakes has eight weeks in which to issue their final response. 
In addition, Mr M has also said hed like Great Lakes to detail how his situation could differ 
which would then lead to a claim being paid. However, my role here is to consider Mr Ms 
individual complaint about his specific claim being declined by Great Lakes. If Mr M wants 
further information on his policy cover, hed need to approach Great Lakes directly for this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman