DRN-1679420
Complaint
In accordance with our usual practice in cases like this, Ill be referring to the complainant as 
Mr V in this decision, for reasons of confidentiality.
Mr V says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI) cover which he neither agreed to or wanted.  
Background
We now know there were two such policies sold to Mr V. One covering 1994  1997; and 
another one replacing it, from 1997 - 2006.
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr V with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. He disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I can see Mr V has experienced a difficult journey with his complaint which I think will have 
been frustrating for him. It seems to me that the matters could have been handled better by 
all the parties involved and Im sorry hes had to wait a while for his complaint to reach this 
stage. But Id like to assure him Ive looked very carefully at everything hes put forward.
I also dont doubt Mr V himself may genuinely and honestly believe now that the PPI was 
mis-sold to him on these two occasions. However, Im sure he will also understand that the 
first sale was 26 years ago and its therefore obviously possible he may not remember 
everything that took place.
There is no original documentation left to refer to. But as Halifax is a major lender Ive 
evidently seen quite a few cases like this one and know quite a bit about the type of 
paperwork that consumers were given.
Whilst I completely accept Mr Vs main point of complaint is that he didnt even know about 
the PPI policies, Im afraid my experience is that Halifax would have sent him welcome 
letters and policy schedules for both policies. Theres no dispute that PPI was sold to him, so 
the insurers would have no reason not to send out these details. My experience is that the 
correspondence would set out the policy numbers, the cost of the PPI and who was covered. 
And also, for me to uphold Mr Vs complaint on ground of it not being consented to ( and 
added completely without his knowledge) Id need to think those things happened twice, 
three years apart. Whilst thats possible, I consider it very unlikely.So all this leads me to say its much more likely that Mr V agreed to the PPI and he would 
almost certainly have known it had been set up to cover his mortgage borrowing.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr V because Halifax probably 
recommended this to him as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable.
I say this because he seems to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. He may well already have had some 
sickness protection with his job and I recognise this would have been generous cover 
because of the type of job he did. But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt 
suitable for him. I think the mortgage, on both counts, would have been a significant and 
long-term financial commitment and secured against his home. So the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other 
hand, was designed to pay a substantial monthly sum for up to 12 months if hed needed to 
claim. So Halifax putting forward a recommendation to have cover wasnt unfair.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. As I 
say, we no longer have the actual paperwork now in respect of Mr V, but I think its more 
likely they would have known what the cover was costing and what elements of insurance he 
had agreed to. I think he probably had enough information on which to make an informed 
choice.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr V. But these events are from a long time ago and to uphold his 
complaint Id need to think it was more likely he never gave his consent or that there were 
other flaws in the sale(s). I simply dont have that evidence and I think its more likely he 
tailored the cover to suit his needs of the time and would have had a lot of documentation 
showing this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint and I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman