DRN-2140292
The complaint
Mr G and Mr H complain Fairmead Insurance Limited have delayed progress to their 
buildings insurance claim.
Any references to Fairmead also include their agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made. 
My decision covers events up until Fairmeads final response in September 2019. Any 
reference to events that took place after this is purely for the purposes of delivering my 
decision.
In July 2018 Mr G and Mr H made a claim for subsidence at their property. Initial work, to 
remove trees related to the cause of the issue, was due to begin in July 2018. But this was 
delayed due to nesting birds in the trees. 
The work to remove the trees was confirmed as completed around September 2018.  
Following this Mr G and Mr H reported further related damage appearing at their property. 
Fairmead then informed Mr G and Mr H they would need to wait until early 2019 for the 
ground to stabilise before proceeding with repairs.
Fairmeads original contractor left their panel around March 2019. At this point no one had 
reattended Mr G and Mr Hs property. Another contractor was arranged following this, with a 
site visit taking place in April 2019.
A start date for works was agreed in June 2019, starting in July and due to last two weeks. 
Mr G and Mr H informed Fairmead they would be going on holiday in August 2019, so any 
work would need to be completed by then.
The contractor attended Mr G and Mr Hs property on the scheduled start date. But Mr G and 
Mr H said the contractor didnt begin any work, then returned the next day, took up the floor, 
took some photos and left the property again. Mr G and Mr H also said they were told by the 
contractor there was no chance of the work being completed on schedule.
Mr G and Mr H were unhappy with the response they received when corresponding with the 
contractor over the following days. So they requested Fairmead remove them from the claim 
 which the contractor supported. Around this time, a formal complaint was also registered 
with Fairmead.
Fairmead provided a final response to Mr G and Mr H in September 2019.  They accepted 
there had been times where the service theyd delivered hadnt been of a satisfactory 
standard. Fairmead offered Mr G and Mr H £250 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.
Mr G and Mr H werent happy with Fairmeads response, so they brought their complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr G and Mr Hs complaint. He said there had 
been avoidable delays caused by Fairmead and thought they should increase their offer of 
compensation to £500.
Mr G and Mr H didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G and Mr H have strong views about what has happened, and they have 
provided numerous submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. 
However, I hope Mr G and Mr H wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and not all the points raised, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every 
question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr G and Mr H, and by 
Fairmead, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
Mr G and Mr H are unhappy with the amount of time taken to resolve their claim. I do think 
there have been avoidable delays and times where Fairmead couldve reasonably acted 
quicker. And I will explain why I think this is the case below. 
Its not unusual for claims of this nature to take some time to be resolved, so although I 
appreciate Mr G and Mr Hs comment that delays were not of their making, I wont be 
holding Fairmead responsible for delays I believe were reasonably unavoidable.
Trees needed to be removed to stabilise the property before work could begin, but I can see 
they couldnt be removed immediately because of nesting birds. Fairmead said repairs 
couldnt take place until the ground had rehydrated following the tree removal. The initial 
contractor was due to reattend the property to look at the rehydration - and said they would 
do this in early 2019. Fairmead were acting on the advice of experts, and they said in their 
initial report in July 2018, it was likely the movement was of a cyclical nature with cracks 
opening in the summer and closing in the winter. So I dont think this was unreasonable.
I dont think early 2019 would have been particularly clear to Mr H or Mr G, but I would 
reasonably have expected Fairmead to have contacted them by at least February 2019 to 
arrange this, and I cant see this happened. 
The initial contractor left Fairmeads panel of contractors around March 2019, and a new 
contractor had to be arranged. This was done shortly after  but a site visit wasnt completed 
until around six weeks later, at the end of April 2019. I appreciate the change of contractor 
might have been unforeseen to the representatives handling the claim, but I think Fairmead 
couldve done more here to mitigate the impact this had on Mr G and Mr H.
Mr G and Mr H queried why the contractor left Fairmeads panel. Its not unusual for an 
insurers panel of contractors to change, for a variety of reasons. But Ive seen nothing to 
persuade me this was directly related to Mr G and Mr Hs claim. So, I dont think this is 
relevant here and I will not be commenting on it further. Mr G and Mr H told Fairmead they were going away in August 2019, and Fairmead were 
aware of the circumstances regarding removal of their furniture and the disruption this would 
cause to Mr G and Mr H.
The contractor said the works would be completed in two weeks. But on the day the 
contractor attended to begin works they quickly left the site  and no repair work was 
completed. Following this they told Mr G and Mr H they couldnt proceed with works until 
theyd received instruction about what form of repairs were needed to sub floor brickwork. 
Its not unusual for works to run over schedule, but queries about floor issues had already 
been raised by the contractor as early as the site visit in April 2019  and I can see Fairmead 
authorised the contractor to lift the floor and investigate in June 2019. Mr G and Mr H said 
this never happened, and Ive not seen anything that shows it did. 
Mr G and Mr H had said if works were to run over, they would prefer to postpone until after 
their holiday, due to the disruption it would cause. So I think Fairmead couldve done better 
to communicate the potential delays to Mr G and Mr H to minimise disruption. So I can 
appreciate Mr G and Mr Hs frustration about this matter.
Its clear the relationship between Mr G and Mr H and the contractor had broken down, so a 
new contractor was appointed. 
Mr G and Mr H have said the new contractor couldve completed a site visit before their 
holiday, but this didnt take place until September 2019 - so this further delayed works 
beginning. Its possible, they couldve attended earlier, but considering the window of time 
available, its not unreasonable they didnt attend until after Mr G and Mr Hs holiday.
Putting things right
As Ive set out above I think there were avoidable delays in progressing Mr G and Mr Hs 
claim - and times where Fairmead couldve reasonably acted faster.
Mr G and Mr H have spoken of the disruption the delays to work starting caused them. 
Theyve also said having to move furniture sequentially between rooms as repairs were 
ongoing caused disruption to their day to day lives. So I think they have been 
inconvenienced by the delays caused by Fairmead.
I realise Mr G and Mr H are unhappy with the amount of compensation recommended by the 
investigator as they dont think it goes far enough to recognise the impact this matter had on 
them.  But, taking everything into consideration I think an award of £500 compensation is fair 
and it reasonably reflects the inconvenience they have been caused. 
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mr G and Mr Hs complaint.
To put things right Fairmead Insurance Limited should pay Mr G and Mr H £500 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman