DRN-4334588
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that TSB Bank plc gave her misleading information about how interest 
would be applied to her Individual Savings Account (ISA).  
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs M held an existing fixed rate ISA which was due to mature. She visited her 
local branch to discuss her options. She explained she wanted to reinvest the funds in 
another ISA but didnt want a fixed rate. 
Mrs M says the branch staff suggested that she should open a Save Well Limited Access 
ISA which was at a variable rate of 0.39% tax free if she didnt make any withdrawals. But if 
she made a withdrawal, shed receive a lower rate for that calendar month. She explained 
that the branch staff confirmed that the interest rate on the account would rise if the Bank of 
England base rate increased as this was forecasted at the time.
In August 2022, Mrs M was checking her accounts and realised that the interest rate on her 
Save Well Limited Access ISA hadnt risen but TSB were offering a higher rate of 0.99% tax 
free for new customers. Mrs M visited her local branch again. She says the branch staff and 
manager confirmed again that since her account was a variable rate the interest rate 
shouldve risen to 0.99% tax free, so a complaint was raised.
TSB initially told Mrs M that they hadnt made a mistake. They explained that the Save Well 
Limited Access ISA is opened for a fixed term of 12 months and the interest rate of 0.39% 
tax free will remain on the account for this period. They said that while the terms and 
conditions refer to the interest rate being variable, and the rate could go up and down. But 
this was in reference to the rate decreasing for a calendar month if funds were withdrawn 
from the account and then increasing again the following month as long as no withdrawals 
were made. 
They also clarified that the Save Well Limited Access ISA wasnt a tracker rate which follows 
the Bank of England base rate. They told Mrs M that if she closed her Save Well Limited 
Access ISA which she could do at any time, she wouldnt be able to open another account 
until the 12-month term is over. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and wrote to her branch reiterating the conversations she had with 
them in April 2022 when she took out the account and then in August 2022 when the 
complaint was raised.
Following this, TSB wrote to Mrs M accepting she was given incorrect information regarding 
the interest rate on her Save Well Limited Access ISA. They explained theyd spoken to 
branch staff whod confirmed she was told that the interest on her Save Well Limited Access 
ISA was variable and the interest rate on her account would increase if their rates also 
increased. They told Mrs M that the rate on her account wouldnt change, she could either 
leave the account as it was and continue to earn 0.39% tax free or close the account and 
move the funds to another account which offers a better return. 
They credited Mrs Ms account with £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. They acknowledged Mrs M may have incurred expenses, so they agreed to review 
costs such as telephone calls, fuel costs and parking. Mrs M closed her Save Well Limited 
Access ISA and transferred her funds to another provider. She also referred her complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator said Mrs M was given incorrect information in branch when she opened the 
account. He felt the terms and conditions were misleading since it gave the impression that 
the interest rate was variable, which meant it could go up or down, but TSB confirmed that 
the interest rate could go down during a calendar month if a withdrawal was made but 
wouldnt rise above 0.39% tax free. He recommended TSB pay Mrs M an additional £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs M accepted the investigators 
opinion.
The investigator then reconsidered the redress and asked TSB to calculate Mrs Ms financial 
loss. He proposed TSB should identify the ISA product that accurately reflected what Mrs M 
wanted to achieve, calculate the interest Mrs M wouldve earned from this product between 
the date she invested her funds to the date she withdrew from the ISA, and deduct the 
interest she earned in the same period in her Save Well Limited Access ISA. TSB disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2023, and I made the following findings:
Firstly, I think itd be helpful to explain that its not within my remit to investigate 
wider banking industry practices on how interest rates work for savers as opposed to 
borrowers. This is the role of the financial services regulator, The Financial Conduct 
Authority. In making my decision, Ill only be focusing on the individual circumstances 
of Mrs Ms complaint.
I've looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs M's account. This explains that the 
savings interest rate is variable which means it can go up or down any time. The 
savings account general conditions explain some situations where this might happen, 
for example changes to the Bank of England base rate. This doesnt mean that the 
rate will go up or down based on the changes to the Bank of England base rate but 
rather that it could.
I haven't seen anything within the written documents which suggests that the saving 
interest rate tracks the Bank of England base rate. So, I don't think the terms and 
conditions are unclear or misleading. 
TSB are also within their rights to offer a different rate to customers signing up to 
their accounts for a fixed term at different times. It follows I dont think theyve treated 
Mrs M unfairly by offering a higher rate of 0.99% tax free or a different rate to other 
customers. 
That said, TSB have already admitted their branch staff gave Mrs M incorrect 
information about how the interest rate applied to her Save Well Limited Access ISA. 
Mrs M says she decided to proceed with opening this particular account on the basis 
of the information she was provided. I find Mrs Ms testimony to be persuasive, so I 
accept she chose to open the Save Well Limited Access ISA based on the incorrect 
information she was given by branch staff.Ive thought about what Mrs M wouldve done differently if shed been given the 
correct information to establish if she has suffered a financial loss. Mrs M has told us 
that she wanted to invest her funds in an ISA, but she didnt want a fixed rate 
because of the volatile state of the market and the low rates on offer at the time. She 
also strongly believed the Bank of England base rate was due to increase 
imminently. 
I think its more likely than not that if Mrs M realised that the rate of her ISA wouldnt 
track the Bank of England base rate, shed have looked for an account that did. 
Given the time thats passed, I cant say for certain whether Mrs M wouldve found a 
product with another provider which met her requirements  a cash ISA which 
tracked the Bank of England base rate. And even if a product of this nature was 
available, I cant know for sure the rate Mrs M wouldve been offered.
From my research, there doesnt appear to be many tracker cash ISAs available in 
the marketplace. So, Im not convinced Mrs M wouldve had many options for this 
type of account when she was looking to reinvest her funds in April 2022.
I think its more likely than not that Mrs M wouldve chosen another provider offering 
a higher rate on a variable ISA with limited or unlimited access. This wouldve given 
her the flexibility to move her funds to other providers offering better rates following 
any Bank of England base rate changes.
Ive had a look at the best rates offered on a comparison site for a variable cash ISA 
account for a one-month period from 28 April 2022. And the average rate of the top 
providers appears to be around 0.95% tax free which is significantly higher than the 
rate of 0.39% tax free offered by TSB. 
As explained above, I think Mrs M wouldve likely shopped around if she was given 
the correct information by TSB, and naturally wouldve sought to get the best rate 
possible for her savings. As a result of the incorrect information given by TSB, Im 
satisfied Mrs M has suffered a financial loss of interest which I think they can be fairly 
held responsible for.
I think TSB should recalculate the interest rate of the account as if it were 0.95% tax 
free instead of 0.39% tax free from 28 April 2022 until 16 September 2022 and refund 
Mrs M this amount deducting £97.78 to take into account the interest she earned on 
her Save Well Limited Access ISA account before it was closed on 16 September 
2022.
It also appears TSB have continued to provide Mrs M conflicting and contradictory 
information about how the interest rate applied to her account. TSBs responses to 
Mrs Ms complaint suggests that the interest rate on her account couldnt rise above 
0.39% tax free for the term of the account. And the variable rate refers to the rate 
decreasing for a calendar month if funds were withdrawn from the account and then 
increasing again the following month as long as no withdrawals were made. 
However, this isnt my understanding of how the account operates based on the 
terms and conditions. It clearly explains that the rate is variable which can go up or 
down at any time  meaning its not fixed at 0.39% tax free for the term of the 
account. TSB have also confirmed this within their submissions to our service, so I 
think they missed a few opportunities to provide Mrs M with the correct information.
All things considered, I think TSB have given Mrs M poor customer service, not least 
by giving incorrect information in branch about how interest was applied to her account, but also the inconsistent information she was provided after she raised a 
complaint.
I have no doubt that this matter has caused Mrs M unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. TSB have acknowledged their error and apologised to Mrs M. 
Theyve also paid her £100 compensation and offered to cover her expenses. 
Taking into account the impact on Mrs M, Im satisfied that the £100 compensation 
that TSB have already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience she was caused. TSB have also offered to review 
any expenses Mrs M has incurred in addition to the compensation amount, which I 
dont think theyre required to do here. Ill leave it up to Mrs M to decide if she wants 
to make a claim for expenses with TSB directly, as this offer appears to remain open 
to her. 
Overall, I wont be asking TSB to do anything else, apart from reimburse Mrs M the 
loss of interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions. 
TSB didnt respond within the deadline given. Mrs M accepted my provisional decision.
Since there arent any new points or comments from either party, there isnt anything else for 
me to consider. Im satisfied with the findings I reached, and I see no reason to deviate from 
the outcome I explained in my provisional decision.
As a reminder, to put things right, TSB should:
Recalculate the interest rate on Mrs Ms account from 28 April to 16 September 2022 
at the rate of 0.95% tax free.
Refund this amount to Mrs M deducting £97.78.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, my final decision is that TSB Bank Plc should put things right in 
the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman