DRN-3472921
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with a claim against her 
private medical insurance policy. Reference to AXA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs C has had a private medical insurance policy with AXA for 
many years. It renews annually in June each year. 
Mrs C made a claim against her policy and is concerned about the cost of treatment she 
had in May 2021, in particular, the hospitals charges. She thinks that the amount is 
excessive and is worried that it will increase her premium at renewal. Mrs C wants the 
hospital to charge less and AXA to be more concerned with their policyholders needs 
than those of the service providers. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably. The investigator said that this service wouldnt 
be able to comment on whether the hospitals charges are appropriate or ask AXA or the 
hospital for a further breakdown of the charges. She said that Mrs Cs policy was on a 
claims neutral basis, which means that specific claims dont affect the premium. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. She didnt see how the investigator had 
concluded that the costs in her case were in the range any patient would pay. Mrs C 
didnt accept that her policy was claims neutral, as AXA takes a catchment area of 
claims to assess the level of premium, and she is part of that. She believes that there are 
still questions to be answered by AXA and the hospital provider. Mrs C said that it 
appears that AXA is paying healthcare providers inflated rates.
The investigator considered what Mrs C said but didnt change her view. Mrs C asked 
that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs C has very strong feelings about this matter. However, I trust that she will 
not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issue, that 
is whether AXA treated her fairly and reasonably.    
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
3.6 Paying the specialists and practitioners that treat you
Does my plan cover the full fees charged by specialists?
If your treatment is covered, we will pay different amounts depending on what kind of 
arrangement we have with your specialist.
 Fee-approved specialist. Using a fee-approved specialist gives you the maximum 
reassurance, as we pay all their fees. If you use our Fast Track Appointments service, and 
you would like us to book your appointment for you we will book it with a fee-approved 
specialist.
 Fee-limited specialist. You may need to pay some costs yourself.
 Specialists we do not pay for. We do not pay any of their costs.
[]
Fee-approved specialists - what we pay
We will recommend you see a fee-approved specialist, as this will give you the maximum 
reassurance that the costs will be covered.
Call us as soon as you have seen your GP, and our Fast Track Appointments team can 
make your appointment with a fee-approved specialist for you.
This will mean that so long as your treatment is covered, we will pay for the following for a 
fee-approved specialist:
 hospital in-patient and day-patient treatment
 surgery.
This is so long as a GP, a dentist or a medical professional that we recognise and we have 
approved to make referrals has referred you for treatment with that type of specialist. 
 
has AXA treated Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why:
Mrs C is responsible for the costs she incurs in having private treatment. However, if 
her treatment is eligible treatment, AXA pays the costs that are covered under her 
benefits and in accordance with the terms of cover. 
AXA authorised Mrs Cs claim and explained the limits of her benefits under the 
policy. When it received the invoice from the hospital where Mrs C was treated, it 
challenged an additional charge. AXA told Mrs C that the healthcare provider 
charged more than its agreed rate, so it only paid it the agreed amount. It said that 
Mrs C wasnt required to pay the difference. So, I think AXA gave proper 
consideration to how much it should pay to the hospital and was transparent about 
how much it had paid. 
In response to Mrs Cs complaint, AXA told her that it had a package agreement with 
the hospital and that it had paid in accordance with that agreement. AXAs 
commercial arrangements with service providers arent something with which we 
usually interfere. And this service has no jurisdiction in relation to health service 
providers, so we cant tell them what they should charge or direct them to provide a 
further breakdown of costs.  
Its open to Mrs C to challenge the costs directly with the hospital if she wishes to do 
so. Thats because, whilst AXA paid the hospital costs, the contract for services is 
between Mrs C and the hospital. 
AXA says that Mrs Cs policy is on a claims neutral basis, rather than on a no 
claims discount basis. That means that the costs AXA paid in Mrs Cs individual case 
wont determine the premium shes asked to pay. Mrs Cs premium will be set as part 
of a pool of other policyholders.As the investigator explained, if Mrs C was unhappy about the quote on renewal she 
could complain to AXA about that and, if she remains dissatisfied with its response, 
complain to this service. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman