DRN-2089875
The complaint
Miss A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly 
charged her for replacement tyres when she returned a car shed taken on hire purchase. 
She also complained about difficulties that had arisen when she had taken delivery of the 
car.    
What happened
In October 2016 Miss A took a car on a three-year hire purchase agreement from MBFS.
When Miss A returned the car three years later, MBFS added charges for excess mileage 
and for three replacement tyres, at a total cost of nearly £750.
Miss A accepted that she had to pay an excess mileage charge. The hire purchase 
agreement said that she had an annual allowance of 10,000 miles but would have to pay 7p 
a mile plus VAT for every mile above that. She didnt accept however that she should have 
to pay for tyres. MBFS said that three of the tyres did not comply with its return standards 
and so had to be replaced. Miss A said she was unaware of those standards and that she 
hadnt been provided with a copy of those standards when she entered into the hire 
purchase agreement.
Miss A also said that, when the car had been delivered to her three years earlier, it had 
initially been sent to the wrong dealership. As well as being inconvenient for Miss A, this 
meant that the mileage was higher than it should have been.
MBFS agreed to reduce the mileage excess in recognition of the issues at delivery but did 
not agree to write off or reduce the charge for the tyres. Miss A referred the matter to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered it. The investigator agreed with MBFS 
that it was entitled to charge Miss A for tyres and didnt recommend that it do anything more 
to resolve the complaint. Miss A didnt accept the investigators view and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal briefly with the problems that Miss A described when she took delivery of the car. I 
note that she raised them only when the dispute about the tyres arose. That might suggest 
that, but for the later issues, she might not have complained at all. In any event, I think 
MBFS has done enough to resolve the delivery issue.
MBFS says it publishes Vehicle Return Standards which set out the condition in which 
vehicles must be returned at the end of a hire period. Miss A says she wasnt aware of them 
and was not provided with a copy of the booklet which sets them out. 
The hire purchase agreement did however include a section headed Vehicle Return 
Standards. That agreement was a 12-page document; each page was numbered in the 
format x of 12 and Miss A signed the document indicating she agreed to be bound by its 
terms. 
The introduction to the Vehicle Return Standards section said that the car must be returned 
in line with the standards which were  detailed below. There was no reference to a 
separate booklet. Under the heading Wheels and tyres however, the agreement said:
Your vehicle must conform to the original specification of the vehicle. It must have matching 
tyres (of a size and premium brand, approved by the manufacturer) on each axle, for 
example, Pirelli or Bridgestone.
The published booklet  which Miss A says she didnt receive  listed other brands of tyre 
regarded as premium as well as those brands which were classed as mid-range. Miss A 
says they differed from the online version. 
I note however that Miss A has not suggested that she returned the car fitted with tyres that 
met any version of the return standards  those in the hire purchase agreement, online or in 
the published booklet. Her obligation under the hire purchase agreement was to return the 
car fitted with premium tyres; the front tyres had to match each other, as did the rear tyres. 
Examples of premium brands were provided, although other premium brands were also 
permissible. 
Whilst the various versions of the return standards are not identical, I dont believe they are 
inconsistent. But in any event, Miss A returned the car with tyres that met none of those 
standards  and importantly didnt meet the standards set out in the agreement she signed. 
In the circumstances, I dont believe MBFS has treated her unfairly by adding the charges it 
did.       
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited to do anything more to resolve Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman