DRN-3847926
The complaint
Miss K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not fairly compensate her 
after she complained about mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In or around 2019, Miss K complained to RBS about the sale of PPI. RBS initially told her it 
could not trace a PPI policy in her name. 
Miss K then found some card statements showing that she paid for PPI from 1995 to 2002 
and she sent these statements to RBS. RBS then upheld the complaint and offered to pay 
compensation. However, it calculated that compensation was only due to be paid from 3 
October 1995  which was the date of the first statement Miss K sent to RBS. 
Miss K did not accept RBSs calculation and so she complained to this service. She said that 
she believed she had taken PPI out in 1982/3 and that compensation should be calculated 
on an average basis from this time. She didnt think it was reasonable to expect customers 
to keep records for such a long time when RBS itself hadnt retained such information. Miss 
K thought RBS should recalculate its offer. 
Our adjudicator considered the matter and thought RBSs offer was fair. Miss K did not 
accept that view and so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss K will be disappointed with my decision, but Ive decided the offer RBS made is 
fair. Ill explain why below.
Where a financial business offers compensation following a complaint about mis-sold PPI, 
as far as it is possible to do so, Id expect it to return the consumer to the position they would 
be in if the policy had never been sold in the first place. 
What that means in practice is that first of all, RBS would need to work out how much Miss K 
would have owed when the account was closed if the PPI policy hadnt been added to it. To 
do that, Id expect it to remove the PPI premiums, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It would also need to remove any charges caused by the PPI. Then, RBS would 
need to refund the difference between what Miss K owed when the account was closed and 
what she would have owed if she hadnt had a PPI policy. 
Simple interest would be payable on the difference Miss K paid. Also, if she paid enough so 
that her card balance would have been cleared but for the PPI policy while her account was 
still active, RBS would need to pay simple interest from that point as well. The rate of interest 
is usually 8%. 
The first issue in this case is the date from which compensation should be paid. Miss K says 
she believes the card was opened in 1982/83 and that PPI was sold at that time. As I said 
above, she was able to provide some statements showing she paid for cover from October 
1995 to November 2002.
RBS says it has no records to show when the card account was opened or the date upon 
which PPI was sold. Miss K says the card account was opened around 40 years ago. Its not 
unusual for a business not to have detailed records going that far back. I wouldnt expect 
either party to keep such detailed records for that length of time. 
I accept that Miss K strongly and genuinely believes that the PPI cover was sold earlier than 
1995. However, neither party can tell me definitively when the card account was opened, 
whether PPI was sold at the same time and if it was not, when it was applied to the account.  
Miss K says that in the absence of any further information, RBS should make an average 
offer in the same way as she was compensated for a store card with another business. Im 
aware that average offers for other store cards were made. But I understand this was 
generally where a business knew at least when the account had been opened. I understand 
businesses making such offers often knew when the cover had been sold, but did not have 
full statement data. The case before me now is not the same because neither party can 
provide sufficient evidence as to when PPI was sold, when the first premium was paid or 
even when the account was opened. 
When Im considering a complaint, I must apply the balance of probabilities. In other words, 
where the facts in a complaint are unclear or in dispute, I have to decide what most likely 
happened based on the evidence before me. I appreciate that Miss K has given her best 
recollection about when the card was opened by referencing her personal circumstances in 
1982/3. But I cant reasonably conclude that its most likely PPI was sold at that time, even if 
I were to accept thats approximately when the account would have been opened. 
In the absence of any further information, my decision is that it is fair for RBSs calculation of 
compensation to begin from October 1995 when it has statement data provided by Miss K. 
Ive seen a copy of the full calculation RBS undertook after it received the statement data 
from Miss K. In considering that information, I can see that it worked out that the difference 
between what she owed on her account when it was closed and what she would have owed 
without a PPI policy was £1,403.06. That comprised £1,002.30 for the cost of the PPI 
premiums and £400.76 in card interest.
I know Miss K queried the amount of card interest that had been refunded. And she again 
referred to a similar complaint shed made where the card interest was significantly greater. 
However, in this case, there are a number of factors as to why the card interest may not be 
as high as Miss K was expecting. For example, I can see that Miss K appears to have paid 
enough to more or less clear her card balance in June 1998. By making a significant 
payment into her account, Miss K had mostly paid for all of the PPI premiums and so the 
card interest on the premiums would have reduced significantly at that point. It is at this 
stage that RBS then offered to pay 8% simple interest.  The card interest very gradually 
increased again after June 1998 as and when Miss K used the account. 
Overall, Im satisfied the calculation of card interest is in line with what I would expect, and 
Im satisfied RBSs calculation is fair in these circumstances. 
There has been some confusion about whether RBS made any assumptions in calculating 
Miss Ks premiums after December 2002. In considering RBSs calculation, I cant see there 
were assumptions about PPI premiums Miss K paid after that time. However, it looks as 
though RBS may have some records to indicate there was a small balance on Miss Ks 
account in 2004. Whilst it does not appear to have assumed PPI was paid between 
December 2002 and 2004, it has assumed that Miss K gradually paid down her card balance 
during that time. Consequently, a small amount of additional card interest appears to have 
been refunded back to Miss K for this period. Miss K was concerned that RBS had not correctly calculated 8% interest. As I said above, Id 
expect RBS to begin paying 8% simple interest from the point where Miss K would have paid 
her card balance in full if she wasnt paying for PPI. I can see RBS calculated that first point 
would have been in June 1998. Simple interest has been paid from that point and calculated 
up to the date that RBS made its offer to Miss K. 
In her original complaint to this service, I can see Miss K said she wanted to make a 
complaint about mis-sold PPI as well as a commission complaint. However, as RBS has 
offered to refund to Miss K all of the PPI premiums we know about, that means it has offered 
to refund all of the commission she paid as well. 
With all of this in mind then, Im satisfied the offer RBS made to Miss K is fair. However, I 
understand compensation has not yet been paid to Miss K. That means RBS will need to 
update its offer of 8% simple interest to be paid up to the date Miss K gets that money back. 
My final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs offer of compensation to Miss K is fair. However, if Miss K 
accepts my decision, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will need to update the 8% simple 
interest it has offered to pay Miss K to be calculated up to the date she gets that money 
back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman