DRN-3889714
The complaint
Mr W complains that he wasnt notified by Santander UK Plc (Santander) that his ISA was 
only cash held in the stocks and shares ISA. 
He says hes suffered an investment loss as a result and would like Santander to 
compensate him for his losses. 
What happened
In July 2019, the money held in Mr Ws stocks and shares ISA was dis-invested after the 
management of the Santander Stockmarket 100 Tracker Growth Unit Trust RA fund (the 
fund) was transferred to OneFamily. Mr W says he wasnt notified.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Santander sent a letter to Mr W dated 21 June 2019, notifying him that his money 
would be dis-invested out of the fund, and transferred to cash, within the ISA. 
Having seen a copy of the letter, shes satisfied that the June 2019 letter was sent 
and cant blame the business if Mr W didnt receive a copy. 
Regular statements were also sent following this notification. Despite what Mr W 
says, she cant agree that these were unclear. Whilst the cash situation probably 
wasnt apparent from the first page, Mr W ought to have read the statement in full. 
This was an execution only service, and the onus was on him for managing the 
investment properly.   
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
The investigators view is just protecting the banks, against the average consumer.
Theres no evidence that he received the letter in question, despite it being correctly 
addressed to him. It was either not sent, or if sent, wasnt received by him.  
There shouldve been a procedure in place to follow up this information by recorded 
delivery. 
The information about the cash wasnt made clear on the statements. The changes 
to his account werent made clear until towards the end of the valuation.  
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr W says, Im not persuaded 
that the business did anything wrong by dis-investing the fund and holding the funds in cash 
in his ISA. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mr W has about this matter. He has provided submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr W and the business, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case  
Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief for the following reasons:
On balance, Im persuaded that Mr W was notified by Santander in writing about the 
dis-investment in June 2019. Therefore, he knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known, about what was happening. 
I cant blame the business for taking this course of action in the first instance, as long 
as it has notified its customers, which on balance I believe it has. A business is 
entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to decide 
how it runs its affairs. Its not something I can blame the business for or get involved 
in. 
I note Mr W says he didnt receive the letter, however, on balance I think its unlikely 
that he didnt. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely 
(than not) the letter was sent to him  addressed to him using the contact details 
Santander had for him on file. 
Despite what Mr W says, I think its unlikely that the letter wouldve been prepared, 
correctly addressed but not sent by the business. 
Its possible that there was an issue with the post, and the letter wasnt delivered  
but Ive seen no such evidence. Even if the letter wasnt delivered, I cant blame the 
business for this, as its not responsible for the actions of a third-party postal service. 
Im not suggesting that it was, but its possible that the letter was received but 
considered unimportant and ignored until Mr W read through the statements at some 
later date. In any case, in the circumstances the business wasnt obliged to chase up 
Mr W or send further correspondence by recorded delivery or otherwise. 
I note that regular statements were sent following the June 2019 notification. Despite 
what Mr W says, l also cant agree that these were unclear for the reasons given by 
the investigator. I note the first page of the statements was only just a summary, but 
he ought reasonably to have read the document as a whole. Im mindful that this was an execution only service, and that the responsibility and 
onus for managing the investment  and to keep up to date with it  was with Mr W. if 
he didnt do this at the outset, its not something I can blame the business for. 
I appreciate Mr W will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. I note he believes hes 
due compensation for financial loss, but I dont agree. Whilst I appreciate his deep frustration 
and anguish, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr W what he wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman