DRN-1947048
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) didn't offer him a 
higher credit limit on his new credit card.
What happened
Mr K applied to Barclaycard for a new credit card. Barclaycard accepted the application and 
offered Mr K a credit limit of £200, saying it would raise the credit limit to £520 if he 
completed a satisfactory income validation form, which it sent to him.
Mr K completed the form and submitted the proof of income Barclaycard required. Upon 
receipt of this, Barclaycard declined to increase the credit limit.
Mr K complained to Barclaycard that the credit limit wasn't increased as he was told it would 
be, and this decision wasn't communicated to him. In its final response, Barclaycard did not 
uphold his complaint. It said it hadn't raised his credit limit as his income on the documents 
he submitted did not match what he said in his initial application. And it said it had written to 
him explaining this.
Mr K did not agree so complained to our service. He said he would never have applied for 
the Barclaycard had he known he wouldn't have been offered the higher credit limit, and it 
was never explained why it wasn't offered.
Our investigator thought Barclaycard had acted fairly in declining the credit increase. He 
thought it had been clear that the increase was dependent on further income checks, and 
that the proof of income subsequently provided did not match what was initially shown on the 
application. And he thought Barclaycard had written to Mr K explaining this.
Mr K did not agree. He said that in the application process, it was written that the income 
provided during the validation process didn't have to exactly match what was said in the 
application form, and actually his was largely in line with what he said. And he said he was 
not told the reason for the refused increase as Barclaycard said he was. He only found this 
out when he got its final response letter.
So the complaint has been escalated to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K thinks Barclaycard was unfair in not offering him a higher credit limit on his credit card, 
and did not tell him the reason this was refused. Having looked at the evidence I'm afraid I 
do not agree with him. I'll explain why.Barclaycard is required to follow the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. These 
rules are found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which sets out a lenders 
obligations when it comes to, amongst other things, providing credit. Barclaycard must 
consider both the risk to itself in offering credit, and the risk of the consumer being unable to 
repay that credit, and getting into financial hardship.
I have looked at Barclaycard's system notes from Mr K's original application. In it Mr K said 
his yearly pre-tax income was £17,472 and his monthly income after tax was £1,286. As a 
result of this Barclaycard said his initial credit limit of £200 would be raised upon successful 
income validation, to £520.
Mr K sent in three payslips and bank statements. These showed monthly net income of 
£957, £1163 and £462. I don't agree with Mr K, in that I don't think the proof of income he 
submitted for validation was largely in line with what he stated in the original application 
form. I think it was significantly lower. So I don't think Barclaycard was unfair in declining to 
raise Mr K's credit limit.
I now turn to whether Barclaycard told Mr K why his credit limit would not be raised. Mr K 
says he was not told until he received Barclaycard's final response letter to his complaint. 
Barclaycard says it wrote to him to tell him two days after his validation documents were 
received.
Where there are differing accounts or opinions, I need to decide, on the balance of 
probability, what I think is most likely to have occurred. In this case, I have to balance Mr K's 
memory of events against Barclaycard's system records. Barclaycard has provided us an 
example of the letter it said it sent to him, which explains the credit limit will not be increased 
as the income shown on the validation documents was less than what it was expecting 
based on the application. Barclaycard has highlighted on its system records the entry which 
shows this letter was sent. And Mr K's address was correctly recorded. 
I am satisfied that the letter, explaining to Mr K why the credit limit was not going to be 
increased, was most likely sent as Barclaycard said it was.
My final decision
As a result of all of the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21July2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman