DRN-3717141
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) took money out of his 
account following a fraud investigation.
Mr Ss complaint was brought by a representative. As the account is held in Mr Ss name, Ill 
refer to him throughout the decision.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr S received a credit into his account of £100 from a party Ill refer to as G. 
Then, in June 2021, Halifax received a fraud report from Gs bank reclaiming the payment. 
As a result, Halifax placed a block on Mr Ss account and carried out a fraud investigation. 
As part of their investigation they contacted Mr S and asked about the money paid into his 
account from G. Mr S told Halifax that the money was a gift from G and that he believed the 
fraud claim was false. Mr S shared information regarding personal circumstances and his 
relationship with G, which he believed was the reason the fraud claim was raised.  Halifax 
removed the block once the fraud investigation was complete and returned the £100 to Gs 
bank.
Mr S contacted Halifax and raised a complaint, saying that the fraud claim from G was false 
and asking Halifax to return the £100. Mr S also raised concerns regarding the block that 
was placed on his account during the time the fraud investigation was being carried out.
Halifax looked into Mr Ss complaint but declined to refund the £100. They told Mr S that in 
the case of a fraud claim, they place blocks until they have determined the outcome of the 
claim. They confirmed that the block on Mr Ss account had been removed.
Mr S wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and upheld it. They asked Halifax to refund the 
£100 to Mr S, saying the payment was clearly part of a civil dispute between the parties  
therefore Halifax shouldnt have returned the money to Gs bank. The investigator also 
recommended that Halifax pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress caused by them 
removing the money.
Halifax agreed with the investigators recommendation.
Mr S disagreed, saying that compensation wasnt adequate considering Halifax had accused 
him of fraud.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
Having looked at the case, I couldnt see that the matter of an interest award on the £100 
had been addressed by the investigator. I contacted Halifax and asked them if they would 
agree to pay interest on the £100 at the applicable account interest rate from the time the 
money left Mr Ss account, until it was paid back in. Halifax agreed to this recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Halifax have taken the money out of Mr Ss account
When Halifax received the fraud claim from Gs bank, they placed a block on Mr Ss account 
while they carried out an investigation to ensure the funds would be available if they upheld 
the claim. This is the action I wouldve expected Halifax to take on receiving a fraud claim, so 
I cant say they acted unreasonably in placing it.
Halifax spoke to a representative for Mr S, due to his age, and were told that the money from 
G was a gift toward driving lessons. They were also told that G was a family friend and that 
there was a wider personal situation which suggested the fraud claim had been raised in 
response to difficulties in that relationship. Based on the information that Halifax had, Im not 
satisfied that they acted reasonably in taking the funds out of Mr Ss account and returning 
them to Gs bank. I think the information they had suggested the funds were part of a civil 
dispute.
As Halifax shouldnt have removed the funds, they should return the funds to Mr Ss account. 
They should also pay interest on that refund at the account interest rate, calculated from the 
date the funds left Mr Ss account until they are returned  which Halifax has agreed to. 
Interest should be paid at the account interest rate, as there was a significant balance in the 
account and I think its most likely the funds wouldve remained in the account if they hadnt 
been returned to Gs bank.
The impact of Halifaxs actions on Mr S
Mr S feels that the £200 compensation recommended by the investigator isnt adequate for 
the level of distress he experienced. Hes particularly highlighted how upsetting it was to be 
accused of fraud by Halifax.
Mr Ss account had a significant balance before these funds were removed (in excess of 
£30,000). So, Im not satisfied that being without the funds has significantly impacted Mr S. 
Also, I cant make an award against Halifax or hold them liable, for the distress caused by G 
raising a claim, or Gs bank sending the claim to Halifax. 
I understand that the accusation made by Halifax was distressing for Mr S and that he is 
likely to be disappointed. But, having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that £200 
is a fair level of compensation in these circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should:
Reimburse Mr S for the £100, if they havent already done so.
Pay interest on the £100 at the applicable account interest rate, calculated from the 
date the funds left Mr Ss account until the date they were returned.
Pay Mr S £200 compensation, if they havent already done so.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax and require them to compensate Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman