DRN-2276061
The complaint
Mr Rs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf 
about the service he received from Utmost Life and Pensions Limited, referred to as 
Utmost. 
What happened
Mr R say he retired early due to ill health and couldnt afford to pay for his endowment policy. 
Between 2009 and 2014 he had been in and out of hospital with various medical issues. 
It seems Mr R only recently (in 2019) contacted Utmost to check his annuity payments, 
following this on 24 June 2019, he received a letter advising him that he had until 24 July 
2019 to claim his funds. 
Utmost partially upheld the complaint. In short, it said:
Our records evidence that we wrote to Mr R (name anonymised) a number of times 
regarding his policy, after he cancelled the Direct Debit for his policy. Our letters of 9 April 
2009, 11 May 2009, 9 June 2009 and 9 April 2010 all confirmed the value would be fixed 
from 9 April 2010, and the latter confirmed the fixed surrender value to be claimed. We 
issued discharge forms to claim the benefits to Mr R at the time, but our records indicate that 
Mr R did not contact us at any time during this period. We therefore do not agree with this 
part of Mr Rs complaint.
However, it is clear that we did not update our records with the authority for Ms R
to act on Mr Rs behalf, when he wrote to us on 4 June 2019.
In view of the above, we agree with this part of Mr Rs complaint, and apologise
for the omission. We are sorry for any inconvenience this caused to Mr and Ms R.
The CMC says Mr R is unhappy that Utmost failed to contact him by phone, to make him 
aware that he could claim his funds over a long period. Or communicate with his daughter 
who had authority to deal with this policy.  
It also says that if Utmost had sent him a cheque, he wouldve banked it. By not doing so, 
Utmost failed to act in Mr Rs best interests by keeping his funds whilst he was struggling 
financially. And consequently, Mr R lost out on interest payments. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he made the following points:
oHes satisfied that Utmost took reasonable steps  in the form of numerous letters  
to make Mr R aware his funds were available. 
oUtmost accepts it made an administrative error with regards to Mr Rs daughter who 
had authority to deal with these matters. Its apology for failing to do so is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
oOverall Utmost behaved reasonably. 
The investigator also produced the following timeline of events:
o3/4 February 2009  Mr R cancelled the premiums to his policy.
o24 February 2009  Utmost wrote to Mr R to say that the direct debit had been 
cancelled, in case he wasnt aware. 
o9 April 2009  Utmost sent Mr R a second letter in which it confirmed his outstanding 
premiums and the consequence of not paying his premiums. 
o11 May 2009  Utmost sent Mr R a third letter reiterating what it had said in April. 
o9 June 2009  Utmost sent Mr R a fourth letter in which it said that if he didnt restart 
the contributions by 9 April 2010, the value would end but thered be a cash in value 
available. 
o9 April 2010  Utmost issued a fifth letter, as it hadnt received a response from him, 
and confirmed the fixed cash value was £7,482.43.
o5 November 2019  Utmost issued its final response letter in response to the CMCs 
complaint.  
o24 June 2019  Utmost sent a letter and said if the funds werent claimed by 24 July 
2019, it would forfeit the money and all liability to pay would cease. It requested Mr R 
complete the enclosed authority and return it together with the deed and any 
documents he may have. 
o4 July 2019  the surrender charge form was completed. 
o10 July 2019  Utmost paid the funds to Mr R. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it made the following key points:
It asked why Utmost didnt send a cheque when Mr R didnt respond. 
Would it not have been Utmosts obligation to return the funds to its client? In line 
with treating its customer fairly and in line with the customers best interest it should 
have returned his funds. 
The industry regulator has very tight rules around money in client accounts, the same 
would apply here. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
He didnt say that if Utmost sent a cheque Mr R wouldve cashed it. 
What he said was:
oYou (the CMC) also said, if ULPL would have sent Mr R (name anonymised) 
a cheque, he could have banked it. I dont think this would have changed the 
circumstances of the complaint. Mr R didnt respond to the multiple letters 
sent by ULPL to Mr R, so its reasonable to think if a cheque was sent, the 
circumstances of the complaint would be the same.
The terms and conditions which Mr R agreed to, dont say that Utmost will send 
cheques in these circumstances, so theres no obligation to. 
Hes satisfied Utmost treated Mr R fairly. 
Utmost also wrote to Mr R on 24 June 2019 and informed him that if the benefits 
werent claimed by 24 July 2019, all liability to pay the claim would cease. 
Utmost made the decision to honour all claims that remained unpaid for six years. In 
the circumstances thats fair and reasonable.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to say 
that Utmost behaved unreasonably by not phoning Mr R to notify him of his funds, in addition 
to all the correspondence it sent him. 
However, Utmost accepts that it failed to register Mr Rs letter of authority allowing his 
daughter to act on his behalf. In the circumstances, I think an apology and undertaking to 
update its records is fair and reasonable. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Rs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry to hear about his health issues. 
The CMC has provided submissions to support this complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr R and Utmost, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On balance Im satisfied that Utmost behaved reasonably in terms of notifying Mr R about 
what was happening with his investment since he stopped paying the premiums, including 
what hed have to do in order to get the policy restarted. 
Utmost wasnt made aware that Mr R was suffering financially, perhaps if it was, it couldve 
explored alternative options. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that it was aware of his 
reasons for cancelling the direct debit payments.  
The first Utmost was aware of any issues, was when it could no longer collect the premiums, 
and thats how the correspondence with Mr R started. I note it initially wrote to him on 24 
February 2009 to ensure that he knew his direct debit payments had been cancelled. For all 
the business knew, it couldve been an error. 
Because it didnt hear back from him, Utmost wrote to him again in April 2009, and again in 
May 2009, principally repeating the same message, and giving him an opportunity to restart 
the direct debit, pay any missed premiums and continue with the policy. 
So, prior to exhausting this course of action  I dont think it was obliged to tell him about 
how he might get his money. It mightve even been considered a little presumptuous that he 
wanted to cancel the policy. 
I note it wasnt until 9 April 2010, a year or so later, that Utmost wrote to Mr R with a claim 
form, to confirm that he had a £7,482.43 fixed claim value. It was therefore up to him to claim 
the money. I cant blame the business for not telephoning him because it wasnt something 
that it agreed to do and therefore wasnt obliged to. Notwithstanding Mr Rs medical issues between 2009 and 2014, he probably had an 
opportunity to contact the business to make his intentions known, and make any enquires 
about the claim value, especially if he was suffering financially. Its unfortunate that he was, 
but its not something I can hold the business responsible for.  
I appreciate Mr R was concerned about the contents of the letter dated 24 June 2019, 
regarding the time limit within which to claim his money. I understand that under the terms 
and conditions of the policy, if the benefits arent claimed within six years all liability will 
cease. But this didnt happen because Utmost took a commercial decision to honour all 
claims that had remained unpaid for six years.  
I appreciate Mr Rs concerned about the last sentence in the letter about claiming his money 
by a particular date, but I understand that the sentence was only meant as warning, as the 
claim was fixed, and not to cause Mr R worry. 
I appreciate the point the CMC makes about interest payments, but thats not relevant here 
because I dont think the business has done anything wrong by holding on to the funds until 
it heard from Mr R. 
I note that payment was made within days of Mr R returning the surrender discharge form 
which I think is reasonable. This also suggests Utmost probably wouldve done the same, 
had it received instructions from Mr R sooner. 
I understand that as a result of an administrative error Utmost failed to log Mr Rs letter of 
authority (in June 2019) giving his daughter authority to deal with his policy. In the 
circumstances this hasnt affected Mr Rs principle complaint and Im satisfied that an 
apology and updating of the records is a fair and reasonable response. 
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that even if the letter of 
authority had been correctly registered, Utmost wouldve phoned Mr Rs daughter about his 
claim, because it wasnt obliged to. 
I appreciate what the CMC says about Mr R banking the cheque if it was sent to him, but I 
dont think Utmost has done anything wrong by not doing so. It wasnt something that it 
agreed to do, and therefore wasnt obliged to, until Mr R contacted the business. 
Im mindful that Mr R is unhappy about the business response to his data subject access 
request (DSAR), but this isnt something that we have jurisdiction to consider. The 
information Commissioners Office (the ICO) would be an appropriate forum to consider such 
issues. 
I appreciate Mr R will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman