DRN-3688208
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) dealt with his payment dispute and 
his complaint about the same.
What happened
On 9 August 2021 Mr O purchased an item online at a cost of £39.99 from a seller that I will 
call E.
On 4 January 2022 Mr O returned the item to E on the grounds it was faulty.
On 13 January 2022 Mr O contacted Lloyds to raise a payment dispute.
On 14 January 2022 Lloyds advised Mr O that it was unable to progress his payment dispute 
until 15 days had passed from the date the item had been returned to E.
On 18 January 2022 Mr O complained to Lloyds about the service he had received from it to 
date.
On 20 January 2022 Lloyds contacted Mr O for some further information, which it received 
the same day.
On 2 February 2022 Lloyds raised a chargeback on Mr Os behalf.
On 3 February 2022 Lloyds issued Mr O with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Lloyds said it didnt believe it had done anything wrong in its handing of his 
payment dispute.
On 6 February 2022 E defended the chargeback. On receipt of the defence Lloyds submitted 
the chargeback for a second time.
On 24 February 2022 Lloyds credited Mr Os account with £39.95 in respect of his payment 
dispute.
Mr Os complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who came to the view that 
Lloyds had handled Mr Os payment dispute, and his subsequent complaint about the same, 
both fairly and reasonably.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for 
the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O received a full refund within six weeks of raising his payment dispute with Lloyds. This 
is well within what I would consider to be acceptable timescales. Secondly, Ive seen 
insufficient evidence that would lead me to conclude that Lloyds failed to deal with Mr Os 
payment dispute and subsequent complaint(s) about the same fairly and reasonably. Im 
also satisfied that any requests Lloyds might have made of Mr O (for further information for 
example) were reasonable.
Based on what both parties have said and submitted its clear Mr O spent some time in 
contacting (or trying to contact) Lloyds and in communicating with it. But in my view this was 
Mr Os choice and wasnt always necessary. I think its also worth pointing out that raising a 
payment dispute (and a complaint) will always, by its very nature, involve a degree of 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman