DRN-4436892
The complaint
Mr J took out a secured loan with a lender Ill refer to as lender W. He says the debt was 
transferred to another lender (which Ill refer to as lender C) and then onto Swift 1st Limited. 
Whilst he accepts the debt could be transferred between lenders, he says Swift hasnt 
provided him with any evidence to prove that it legally acquired the rights to the debt.
Whilst this loan was taken out in joint names the complaint has been brought just by Mr J. 
Any reference to Mr J in this decision should be taken to include the joint borrower where 
appropriate.
What happened
Mr J took out this secured (second charge) loan in December 2004 with lender W. He 
borrowed £20,000 (plus PPI premium and fees) over a 15-year term on a repayment basis. 
The rate of interest was noted on the loan agreement to be 1.20% a month (variable) which 
gave an initial contractual monthly payment of around £350.
Unfortunately, Mr J got into financial difficulties and his first charge lender took possession of 
his property in 2012 and sold it. As the sale proceeds werent enough to repay this second 
charge loan, the debt remained outstanding. Mr J was making payments initially of £50 a 
month and then later £30 a month and finally £20 a month towards the debt.
In June 2018 the loan was transferred to lender C and Mr J continued to pay £20 a month 
towards the debt until January 2020.
Mr J complained to lender C about the debt and it issued some final response letters as 
follows:
December 2020;
oMr J was unhappy about the correspondence hed received as he didnt think he had 
an agreement with lender C. Lender C didnt uphold the complaint saying it had taken 
the loan over from lender W in June 2018, and Mr J had been notified of that at the 
time. It also said the loan term ended in December 2019 and there was an 
outstanding balance due of around £24,700.
April 2021;
oMr J felt lender C was harassing him, and that the contract was unlawful. It said there 
was an outstanding balance owed that it was allowed to attempt to recover, and it 
had previously responded to a complaint about the lawfulness.
July 2021;
oMr J was unhappy that lender C had shared information with its solicitors, and he felt 
his request for evidence of the agreement hadnt been satisfied. Lender C said it had 
provided information about who it would share Mr Js personal data with, and it had 
previously responded to a complaint about the evidence of the agreement.
December 2021;
oMr J had notified the Information Commissioners Office that lender C hadnt 
responded to the data protection issues he had raised. Lender C provided a further 
copy of its July 2021 letter which dealt with those points.
None of those complaints were referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In April 2023 lender C transferred the debt to Swift.
Mr C raised a further complaint which Swift responded to in May 2023. Swift summarised 
that complaint into four points:
Mr J is unhappy that lender C never provided verification of the debt, and he says he 
does not hold, and has never held, a contract with lender C.
He is unhappy that lender C harassed him for a statute barred debt.
He is unhappy that lender C failed to action his request to have his details erased.
He is unhappy that his information has been passed to Swift as he believes lender C 
never had consent to process his information.
Swift didnt uphold the complaint. It said, using the same four bullet points:
If Mr J had made all his payments in full and on time he would have paid around 
£63,200, however to date he had only paid around £29,000. Lender C had already 
responded to a complaint about the verification of the debt so it had nothing further to 
add.
Lender C had already responded to this complaint point and it had nothing further to 
add.
Lender C had already responded to this complaint point and Swift would need to retain 
Mr Js data until the debt is repaid.
As Swift has acquired the loan it holds his personal information as it is responsible for 
collecting his payments and administering his loan. 
Our Investigator summarised Mr Js complaint as:
To summarise, I understand you took a second charge mortgage with [lender W] in 2004, 
however due to financial pressures the property was repossessed in 2012.
You say you were never told how much the property was sold for and by how much it 
reduced the mortgage debt. You say you were not aware that [lender W] had gone into 
administration, until you were approached by [lender C] in 2018. At the time you contacted 
[lender C] and requested further details about their right to take over the loan and 
requested evidence, however you didnt receive a reply.
In April 2023, you were approached by Swift Advances, who told you they had purchased 
the loan. You dont agree that you owe Swift Advances the loan amount as they havent 
provided you with evidence of their right to take over the loan and chase you for the 
amount outstanding. 
To put things right, youd like evidence from Swift Advances in regards to the loan and if no 
evidence is available that they cease their contact with you and remove your data from 
their records.
Mr J confirmed that summary was correct and so our Investigator continued on that basis.
Our Investigator issued her findings. She said we cant deal with a complaint about the 
repossession and sale proceeds, and neither could we deal with a complaint about the points Mr J raised with lender C in 2020 and 2021. In relation to the one point we can 
consider  whether Swift had the right to take over the loan  she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr J responded to say that his complaint wasnt about the repossession or lender C, just 
whether Swift had the legal right to take over the loan. He said hed not been provided with a 
copy of a Deed of Assignment in line with Section 136 of the Law of Property Act. He said 
that unless Swift provides that then it should cease contact with him and remove his data 
from its records.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr J has clarified that he no longer wants our service to consider his points about what 
happened before Swift took over the loan in 2023, I wont be commenting on those parts of 
this complaint. Instead, Ill just focus on his complaint about Swift and whether it has the right 
to take over the loan.
It isnt in dispute that under the terms of Mr Js loan agreement with lender W that the debt 
could be transferred to another lender(s). Mr J has accepted that fact so I wont go into any 
detail here about how the contract allows for that.
Instead, Mr J feels that unless Swift provides him with evidence substantiating their claim to 
the loan and their right to collect on it  such as a deed of novation or assignment in 
accordance with the Law of Property Act then its claim is unverified.
Swift took over a large number of loans from lender C, not just Mr Js. A Deed of Assignment 
of a loan book is commercially sensitive, as it contains details of multiple loans that have 
been assigned, not just Mr Js. Im satisfied theres no requirement for Mr J to be provided 
with the Deed of Assignment or a Deed of Novation by Swift. Instead, it was sufficient for 
Mr J, and all the other customers that had their loans transferred, to be notified of the 
transfer by letter; which they were by lender C and by Swift. Thats normal and entirely as I 
would expect to see. 
Ive read everything Mr J has said and I understand he feels very strongly about this matter, 
but Im not persuaded that Swift is required to provide Mr J with the documents hed like it to 
send him, so I cant say that it is acting unfairly or unreasonably. Ive also taken into account 
that the lenders acted within the loan terms and conditions when the debt was transferred. In 
these circumstances, I cant fairly require Swift to take any action, and so I dont order it to 
cease contact with Mr J or to remove his data from its records.
I appreciate that this isnt the answer Mr J was hoping for. But if he rejects my decision, Mr J 
is free to pursue this matter against Swift through the courts, if he wants to. But Mr J might 
want to take independent legal advice before doing so.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024. Julia Meadows
Ombudsman