DRN-3114046
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 
September 2016 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D says that she was told by Halifax that the only way she could get an overdraft was to 
take out an URCA, and the URCA was unsuitable for her.
Halifax says that it provided information about the costs and benefits of the URCA to Mrs D 
and she decided to take it out based on that information.
I cant know what was said in the discussion about the URCA in 2016 as I wasnt there. So, I 
can only consider the evidence that is available to me now.
Both parties agree that Mrs D had a fee free account before the URCA, so she knew these 
were available. 
And I think its more likely than not that she was aware she could get an overdraft with a fee 
free account. I say this because fee free accounts with overdrafts were widely advertised 
and available from Halifax and other banks and financial institutions. So, if Halifax had said 
she had to take out a fee-paying account to get an overdraft, I think she wouldve challenged 
this and looked for and found what she wanted elsewhere.
Halifax has also provided evidence that Mrs D didnt use an overdraft until many months 
later, so I think its unlikely this was the sole reason she took out the URCA.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs D knew she had a choice whether to take out the 
URCA and she chose to do so.
I also think its more likely than not this was an information only sale. I say this because the 
documents that Mrs D has signed show that the URCA was highlighted to her rather than 
recommended; and this service is aware that Halifax sales at this time were non-advised.
So, Halifax was only required to provide Mrs D with enough information to make an informed 
decision about the URCA. 
And I think it did. I say this because Halifax has provided evidence that it showed Mrs D a 
video about the product and provided supporting written information to her. And Mrs D went 
on to use the product benefits, so she was clearly aware of them.
The URCA benefits included worldwide travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, home 
emergency cover, car breakdown service and a £300 interest free overdraft.
Mrs D registered and made a claim on the mobile phone insurance, and she used the 
overdraft.
Mrs D also says she tried to use the travel insurance but didnt because her pre-existing 
medical conditions were not covered by the URCA policy and she wasnt aware of this. 
But Halifaxs records clearly show that she was notified about the exclusion of such 
conditions from the cover before she bought the URCA.
So, although I know Mrs D will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not Halifax didnt 
do anything wrong in this sale. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman