DRN-3151114
The complaint
Mr W and Ms Y complain because AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled 
holiday under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W and Ms Y held a single trip travel insurance policy. The insurance was purchased in 
September 2019 and was provided by AWP. Mr W and Ms Y were due to travel abroad in 
June 2020. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all non-
essential travel abroad because of the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And, on 23 
March 2020, the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, 
commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction 
to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. 
In April 2020, Mr W and Ms Y cancelled their upcoming trip. At the time the trip was 
cancelled, the FCDO was still advising against all non-essential travel abroad and UK 
lockdown restrictions were still in force. On Mr W and Ms Ys intended departure date, 
FCDO advice against non-essential travel remained in place, as did partial lockdown 
restrictions in the UK as well as travel restrictions in Mr W and Ms Ys intended destination. 
Mr W and Ms Y made a claim under their policy with AWP for their non-refundable 
accommodation costs. A different business initially replied to them, in error, to say their claim 
wasnt covered under the policy and quoting incorrect policy terms and conditions. AWP 
subsequently assessed Mr W and Ms Ys claim but said there was no cover under their 
policy for cancellation due to travel restrictions or other regulations imposed by the 
government of any country. 
Unhappy, Mr W and Ms Y brought their complaint to the attention of our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened but said he didnt think AWP had unfairly 
declined Mr W and Ms Ys claim. Mr W and Ms Y didnt agree with our investigators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable to both parties in the 
circumstances of Mr W and Ms Ys complaint. 
I understand the situation Mr W and Ms Y found themselves in was exceptional, unexpected 
and unprecedented, and that they had little choice but to cancel their trip. However, no 
insurance policy covers every scenario and an insurer is entitled to decide the level of risk 
which it is prepared to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, AWPs 
obligations under its contract with Mr W and Ms Y are limited by the terms, conditions and 
exclusions which are set out in their policy. 
Mr W and Ms Ys policy provides for AWP to pay for certain unused expenses (which cannot 
be recovered from elsewhere) if a holiday is cancelled because of one of a list of specific, 
insured events. These insured events include:
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised against travel to your journey 
destination, for the dates you are due to travel.
However, Mr W and Ms Ys policy also contains a general exclusion, at page 11 of the terms 
and conditions, which says:
We will not cover you for any claim arising from, or relating to, the following: 
2. Any epidemic or pandemic.
I think this exclusion is clear, and such an exclusion isnt one which Id expect to have been 
specifically highlighted to a policyholder in the policy documentation at the time this policy 
was sold. 
The relevant FCDO advice, UK lockdown restrictions and travel restrictions in Mr W and Ms 
Ys intended destination were all implemented as a result of Covid-19, which had been 
declared by WHO as a pandemic in March 2020. So, the cancellation costs which Mr W and 
Ms Y are claiming for arose due to the pandemic  regardless of whether one or a 
combination of FCDO advice, UK lockdown restrictions and/or travel restrictions in their 
intended destination led to the cancellation of their trip.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W and Ms Y, but their claim isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask AWP to accept their claim. I dont think AWP declined Mr W and Ms Ys 
claim for the correct reason, but this doesnt change my decision that I wont be asking AWP 
to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr W and Ms Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman