DRN-4217839
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr S applied for a credit card from Amex. It was agreed with a limit of
£8,000. Minimum payments (or more) were made until September 2022, when they stopped.
In October 2022, Mr S advised Amex he was in financial difficulty and in November 2022, he
advised Amex hed entered an IVA.
In February 2023, Mr Ss debt with Amex was referred to a debt collection agency to
manage. The interest rate was set to zero.
Mr S complained. He said he had a gambling habit and was in financial difficulty when he
applied for the Amex card. He said Amex shouldve looked at his bank statements at the
time. If they had, they wouldve seen the extent of his gambling. He said the lending was
irresponsible and the debt should be written off.
Amex said Mr S passed all their credit checks when he applied for the credit card. They
declined Mr S complaint.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator upheld Mr S complaint. He said he could
see that Mr S had other debts of £5,300 and a mortgage of £223,000. Monthly repayments
therefore took up a significant proportion of his monthly income. He thought it likely this
wouldve shown up in Amexs credit checks, and Amex shouldve asked him more about his
finances. If they had, they couldve looked at Mr S bank statements. These wouldve shown
he was gambling heavily. As an example, he made £1,650 in gambling payments in the two
weeks up to Christmas 2021. So  Amex shouldnt have given him the credit card. He said
Amex should refund interest and fees and remove any adverse markers from Mr S credit
file.
Amex didnt agree. They said Mr S verified income at the time of the application was
£40,000 p.a, and he passed their checks without any concerns being flagged. Therefore,
there was no reason to ask for any further information, including bank statements. Amex
asked that an ombudsman look at Mr S complaint  and so it has come to me to do that.
I made a provisional decision which said:
Mr S complaint is about irresponsible lending. All lenders have an obligation to lend money
responsibly. We must check whether Amex acted in line within the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC)
section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of
creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer not making the repayments,
as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender knew
about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
o
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer
checks can be made.
Ive considered Mr S complaint in the light of this guidance. Amex showed us evidence that
Mr S passed their credit checks. They told us that Mr S application showed an income of
£40,000 p.a. And he got a high credit score under their credit assessment criteria.
Mr S argues that had Amex looked at his wider financial situation - and his bank account -
they wouldve seen he was in difficulty and was gambling. So  the crux of this complaint is:
what did Amex see when they looked at the application? Because if they could not have
reasonably seen if he had wider financial problems, then there was no requirement or
reason for Amex to ask to look at his bank statements and his other financial commitments.
Our investigator worked out that Mr S other debts were £5,300. I wanted to understand
more about what Amex wouldve seen in February 2022  when Mr S applied for the credit
card.
Mr S sent to us his credit report. I looked at this and it shows that as of February 2022, he
did have some other loan and credit commitments  but I dont think they were significant in
his circumstances, and the repayments were being made. The credit report shows:
Bank loan A: balance as at February 2022: circa £350. Paid to date.
Bank loan B: balance as at February 2022: circa £750. Paid to date.
Finance company loan C: balance as at February 2022: circa £2,500. Paid to date.
Bank mortgage loan: balance as at February 2022: circa £223,000. Paid to date.
Bank credit card: Limit as at February 2022: £4,000. Balance circa £2,000 Monthly
payments made. But defaulted later  in January 2023.
Therefore  looking at Mr S situation when he applied for the credit card from Amex  he did
have some other debts, but when viewed against his income, they looked to be reasonable 
and he was making the contractual payments to them. It looked like Mr S was managing his
overall situation satisfactorily. So  thats the information that Amex wouldve seen and
which fed into their credit checks.
I could then see that Mr S problems appeared to take hold later  after the application toAmex. I could see:
New bank loan D: £!2,550. Drawn May 2022.
New Bank loan E: £8,000. Drawn April 2022.
New loan F: £5,265. Drawn April 2022.
New loan G: £5,000. Drawn May 2022.
So  it looks as though Mr S finances deteriorated some time after he applied for the credit
card from Amex  as he borrowed a lot more money after that time. I dont think its
reasonable to expect Amex to have known what Mr S was going to do after his application in
February 2022  we can only expect Amex to make a lending decision based on the
information they could see at the time. And it was only later  in November 2022  when Mr
S decided to apply for an IVA, which wouldve then taken into account all his debts at that
time.
There is no evidence to suggest that Mr S told Amex about his gambling habit during the
application process  so Amex couldnt be expected to have known about it.
Therefore, based on what Ive seen, I think Amex did complete sufficient credit checks when
Mr S applied for the card, and didnt need to look into his circumstances any further - such
as looking at his bank statements.
I know Mr S will be disappointed by this provisional decision  which is that Amex acted
reasonably in providing him with the credit card, and Im not recommending that Amex do
anything here. 
Responses to the provisional decision:
Neither Mr S nor Amex made any comments. I now need to make a final 
decision.(continued)
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr S nor Amex made any comments, my final decision is unchanged from the 
provisional decision.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman