DRN-4446384
The complaint
Mrs F says Santander UK Plc irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened 
Mrs F took out a 48-month loan for £9,400 on 5 February 2019. The monthly repayments 
were £269.20 and the total repayable was £12,921.60. Mrs F says she was in a debt 
management plan at the time so the loan should not have been approved. Also, she 
complained to Santander about the irresponsible lending of her overdraft and it upheld that 
complaint. She missed payments on this loan and the debt has now been added to her debt 
management plan.
Santander says Mrs Fs loan application passed its affordability checks and it had no 
concerns about her overall indebtedness when she applied.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Fs complaint. He said Santander did not carry out 
proportionate checks as it did not verify Mrs Fs income, but had it done so it could fairly 
have made the same lending decision.
Mrs F disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said the 
fact she was in a debt management plan when she applied must have some bearing on the 
banks lending decision. There were also gambling transactions on the current account that 
she held at Santander.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. Ive 
had this approach in mind when considering Mrs Fs complaint.
Santander needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
to Mrs F irresponsibly. This means it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mrs F could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks 
could take into account a number of things such as the loan amount, the repayment amount 
and Mrs Fs income and expenditure. 
This means to decide this complaint I need to consider if Santanders checks were 
proportionate; if so, did it make a fair lending decision; if not, what would proportionate 
checks most likely have shown; and finally, did Santander act unfairly towards Mrs F in 
some other way.
I can see Santander asked for some information from Mrs F when she applied and it 
gathered other data from external sources. Mrs F declared a net monthly income of £1,482. 
It used national statistics to estimate her monthly outgoings (£450) and could see from her 
credit file what her mortgage costs were (£169). It carried out a credit check to understand 
her existing unsecured credit commitments (£65) and credit history. It asked about the 
purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined Santander 
concluded Mrs F would have disposable income of £798 and so could afford to sustainably 
repay this loan.
I agree with the investigator that Santander ought to have verified Mrs Fs declared income 
given the value and term of the loan. But I can see from Mrs Fs bank statements in the 
months prior to application that her declaration was accurate, if not slightly understated. It 
follows I think better checks would, fairly, not have changed the banks decision.
There was nothing in the other information Santander had gathered that ought to have 
concerned it. The credit check showed Mrs F had a low level of unsecured debt at £2,536 
and around £4,000 of mortgage debt - and this loan was to consolidate her debts. Her active 
credit was largely well-managed  there had been one missed payment in the last six 
months but that account was now up-to-date. 
Mrs F argues she was in a debt management plan at the time and this must be considered. 
But this was not evident from the credit check Santander completed. I can see her plan 
started in 2012 so the related adverse information would have fallen off Mrs Fs credit file by 
2019. So Santander was not aware of her historical difficulties  given their informal nature 
debt management plans are not recorded publicly anywhere. I can see Mrs F paid the plan 
from her Santander current account but in the context of this application I would not say it 
would have been proportionate for the bank to review all her transactions at a line-item level. 
I would not reasonably have expected Santander to do this given the results of all its other 
checks. And this is the only way it would have been aware, unless Mrs F had opted to 
declare her full financial position. 
Indeed Mrs F may have breached the terms of her plan by applying for new credit, but the 
bank would not be aware of this  only she would. Mrs F also flagged that there were 
gambling transactions on her account but they were not of such a value relative to her 
income that I think Santander ought to have declined her application for that reason.
It follows I do not think Santander was wrong to lend to Mrs F. I have not seen any evidence 
it acted unfairly towards Mrs F in some other way.
Mrs F referenced a separate complaint she made successfully to Santander about her 
overdraft. But we consider a complaint on its individual merits and I can only comment here 
on the lending decision for the loan.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January  2024.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman