DRN-4366032
The complaint
Mr M complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) didnt do enough to protect him when 
he fell victim to a scam.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. But 
briefly Mr M was contacted by someone offering a task-based job/investment opportunity 
where he needed to pay to complete tasks and would then get paid a fee upon completion.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. Mr M agreed with those conclusions. Wise did 
not reply.
I issued my provisional decision in 5 October 2023 explaining why I was thinking of reaching 
a conclusion similar to the investigators view - but the point at which I intended to uphold 
from differed slightly. I also addressed two new issues of recoverable funds and interest 
which should be added to the loss.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision. Wise did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Mr M has lost so much money to a cruel scam. I can only direct Wise to 
refund Mr Ms loss if Im satisfied it reasonably failed to prevent it or did something wrong 
where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
Wise is an electronic money institute (EMI) and not a bank so isnt subject to the same 
expectations set out in guidance and regulations as a bank when it comes to fraud 
prevention. 
Theres no dispute Mr M authorised the scam payments from his Wise account. So, although 
he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed liable for his loss in the 
first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a valid payment 
instruction has been received, Wises obligation is to follow the instructions that he provides. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank or money transfer platform like Wise to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive thought about whether Wise acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M when 
he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did.
I dont consider Wise had any reason to be concerned until Mr M made the payment of 
£2,559 on 24 September 2022. 
The early payments were relatively low in value and didnt fit a pattern consistent with 
common scams. In the months before the scam Mr M had made transfers of around £2,000. 
So, I dont think the early payments up to and including the one for £1,500 would have stood 
out as unusual or suspicious. However, the payment for £2,559 was the largest payment Mr 
M had ever made from the account and by now there was a pattern of several payments to 
the same individual in quick succession. By the £2,559 transfer, the payments had also 
increased significantly in value. 
Wise should have been aware of the prevalence of scams of this nature and been on the 
lookout for signs of financial harm, so I think it ought reasonably to have intervened. I 
appreciate it has also said that this activity and payment pattern is what Wises product is 
designed to do - but a large volume of payments which increased significantly in size in 
quick succession are a classic scam pattern and I think it reasonably ought to have been 
concerned.
Im satisfied that had Wise intervened and asked Mr M about the reason for the payment, 
the scam would quickly have been uncovered. I see no reason why Mr M wouldnt have 
told the truth as he hadnt been given a cover story and genuinely believed that he was 
making payments in respect of an employment/investment opportunity.
It follows that if Wise had prevented the payment of £2,559 the subsequent payments also 
wouldnt have been made.
Ive gone on to consider whether its fair and reasonable to hold Mr M partially responsible 
for his loss. Mr M has accepted the position our investigator outlined so I wont go into detail 
here, but I do agree with the investigator and broadly for the same reasons. It also seems 
from Mr Ms own testimony that he began to have concerns but continued to make the 
payments in the hope he would somehow recover his funds. I do think by the time the bank 
ought to have intervened, Mr M reasonably ought to have been concerned about the rapidly 
increasing sums being requested. Overall, I consider Mr M should bear some responsibility 
for his loss too.
Ive considered Wises actions once it had been put on notice that Mr M was a victim of 
fraud. Wise is generally expected to assist its customers in recovering funds lost in a scam. 
Wise is also the institution of the beneficiary account and did confirm that roughly £200 
remained at the time it was notified of the scam. Looking at the beneficiary bank statements 
this appears to be £181.66 at the time the account was closed. Wise did also say for some 
reason this sum was returned to the beneficiary instead of being recovered for the scam 
victim. As I think it should have been returned to Mr M - I have set out below how this should 
be factored in bearing in mind I am upholding Mr Ms complaint in part.
Putting things right
I require Wise Payments Limited to pay Mr M his loss D where:
A = Refund £181.66 that would have been recoverable from the beneficiary account
B = Refund the payments from and including the seventh transaction of £2,559 
C = net loss B-A 
D = 50% of the net loss CBecause Mr M has been deprived of the use of his money, Wise should pay interest on D at 
the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each payment to the date of settlement (less 
tax if properly deductible).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Wise Payments Limited to 
put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman