DRN-3119814
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) registered a Cifas marker against 
him without due cause. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. But in summary, in Mr Gs account was used to receive and quickly send on 
fraudulent funds. Barclays was notified that the sending account holder sent the funds after 
they had fallen victim to an invoice intercept scam, and so they investigated Mr Gs 
account, closed it, and registered a Cifas marker against him. 
Mr G doesnt deny that his account was used to send and receive the funds, but he says that 
he was unwitting in doing so  he had no idea that they were fraudulent funds. In short, Mr G 
met a man on a dating application and communicated with him over a number of months. Mr 
G thought he was going to enter into a relationship with the man when he returned from 
working abroad. Over time the man told him of a series of difficult circumstances that had 
befallen him including being robbed, then ending up unwell and unable to pay his medical 
bills or fly home whilst in South East Asia. This led to Mr G sending the man money from his 
own funds, as well as from money he borrowed from his parents. When Mr G ran out of 
money to send the man, an alleged friend of the man persuaded him to receive money and 
to send it on to the mans doctor. From his perspective, he cared about the man and wanted 
to help him, and wasnt aware of the provenance of the funds. 
Barclays have maintained that they were correct to load the Cifas marker and close Mr Gs 
account. They said that he either
did know what he was doing was wrong, as he had told them differing stories about 
what happened, and the evidence Mr G had sent them showed he tried to open an 
account with another bank to continue what he was doing after they closed his; or;
was grossly negligent in allowing money to be received and sent from people he had 
never met, without any real questioning or challenging as to where the funds came 
from. 
Mr G, represented by his parents, bought his complaint to our service and an investigator 
looked into what happened. They recommended that is complaint be upheld and the Cifas 
marker removed as they felt it was most likely Mr G was unwitting when he was used as a 
money mule  so they didnt think the evidential burden had been met to register Mr G with 
Cifas. Barclays disagreed  so the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator did, and for broadly 
the same reasons. 
It appears that both parties have accepted the account closure due to the situation 
surrounding this complaint, so I have not considered this as part of this decision. So I will be 
considering whether it is fair and reasonable that Mr G has a Cifas marker. 
The type of Cifas marker that Barclays applied is for misuse of facility  relating to the 
account being used to receive and send fraudulent funds. This is often referred to as being 
used as a money mule. To file such a marker, Barclays are not required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show that 
there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. Cifas guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
In this case, there is no dispute now that the funds that Mr G sent and received here were 
fraudulent. So the relevant finding for me to make is whether I believe Barclays have 
sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr G was deliberately dishonest in his actions in relation 
to these funds  or whether he was merely an unwitting money mule. Having considered all 
of the evidence, I think it is most likely that Mr G was an unwitting money mule  and so 
Barclays doesnt have enough to maintain the Cifas marker. Ill explain why. 
Mr G has provided his lengthy correspondence with the man who he had been talking to, 
and the mans alleged friend, and I am satisfied that he was the victim of a romance scam. It 
is clear that he was spun an elaborate series of lies, that made him worry about the health 
and well-being of a man who he thought he had feelings for. And it was in trying to help him 
that he ended up allowing his account to be used to receive and send on fraudulent funds. 
There are many messages which evidence the story that Mr G was being told, and at no 
point is he told that the funds come from crime or any other questionable activity. It appears 
he believes what he is told  that the funds come from the mans friends who want to help 
him pay his medical bills and get home too. Mr G didnt benefit or profit from the situation in 
any way  in fact he lost a lot of money to this scam himself. And I dont think he had any 
comprehension that the funds were, or could be, fraudulent. 
Barclays have suggested that Mr G wasnt honest with them in his interactions with them, in 
that his story changed when he had encounters with Barclays. They gave an example that 
when he came in to extend his overdraft he said he needed to help a friend in India, but at 
complaint stage he said they were in Indonesia. They said that if he was following 
instructions, he should have been concerned that he had been given varying stories. 
Barclays also says that Mr G had opportunities to tell them what was going on  and he 
didnt. They conclude that Mr G must, therefore, have known he was doing something he 
shouldnt have been doing. I am not persuaded by this argument. I think it is entirely 
plausible that Mr G was either scared or embarrassed to admit the reality of the story  it 
took him months to admit what happened to his parents. I also think there is a possibility 
some of the details  such as India instead of Indonesia  may have been genuine confusion 
on Mr Gs part. I say this because I have seen nothing in the evidence that asks him to lie to 
the bank, and I think it is plausible that his mind could confuse two Asian countries with the 
same prefix if he was stressed and it was not a part of the world he was familiar with. So I 
dont think this is enough to say he acted with deliberate dishonesty. 
Barclays have also pointed to the fact that the messages he provided show he tried to open 
an account with another bank to continue sending money to the mans doctor after Barclays 
closed his account. But I think this just goes to show that he was entirely taken in by the 
scammer, and even after his bank account was closed he remained concerned about 
helping him. This speaks to the level of trust he put in the man. Again, I dont find this is 
enough to say that Mr G acted with deliberate dishonesty. Mr Gs parent disclosed to us that he has learning difficulties which make it more difficult to 
make decisions than other people may find it. I think this made Mr G more vulnerable to the 
scam, and may have led to him making decisions that are questionable to Barclays, with the 
benefit of hindsight. But Ive seen nothing that leads me to conclude that Mr G was 
deliberately dishonest  so I find that he was an unwitting money mule, and the Cifas marker 
should fairly and reasonably be removed.  
Barclays have also suggested that he acted with gross negligence in allowing his account to 
send and receive fraudulent funds without any significant questioning or push back. But 
gross negligence does not amount to sufficient intention or knowledge of an offence to load 
a Cifas marker against someone. 
So, having considered all of the circumstances of this complaint I find that it is not fair and 
reasonable to maintain the Cifas marker against Mr G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and ask that Barclays remove the Cifas 
marker registered against Mr G.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman