DRN-4116462
The complaint
Ms D complains about the service she received from an appointed representative of Quilter 
Mortgage Planning Limited. She says the adviser got her income wrong in a mortgage 
application, and as a result she couldnt borrow as much as she would otherwise have been 
able to. She also says the adviser gave her false assurances about timescales.
What happened
Ms D took advice about her mortgage arrangements in October 2022. She wanted to move 
house, and port her existing mortgage and take some additional borrowing. She had already 
agreed the property sale and purchase.
Ms Ds income was non-standard, because it came from multiple sources: income 
protection plans, Employment Support Allowance (ESA), Personal Independence Payment 
(PIP), and child maintenance. The mortgage adviser therefore consulted Ms Ds existing 
lender about whether it would accept this in order to agree additional borrowing. The adviser 
says the lender told them to produce a separate note with details of Ms Ds income when 
submitting the application. They then went ahead on that basis.
A suitability report was produced on 13 October 2022 and the application went ahead, for a 
mortgage of £417,850. This amount was recommended because it was the maximum Ms D 
could borrow under the lenders affordability modelling over the allowable mortgage term.
On 1 November 2022, Ms Ds application was declined, because the lender didnt consider 
her income acceptable. The adviser asked for that decision to be reviewed. Ms D was 
becoming concerned about the time her application was taking, and on 18 November she 
told the adviser she was concerned about the information they had submitted about her 
income. The adviser reassured her, and on 24 November the lender issued a mortgage offer 
for the amount Ms D had applied for. The mortgage completed in mid-December.
In January 2023, Ms D complained. She said the adviser had wrongly assumed her PIP and 
ESA payments were received monthly rather than every four weeks. This had resulted in her 
annual income appearing to be over £1,000 less than it in fact was. She said she could have 
borrowed £4,000 more on her mortgage based on the lenders income multiplier, or at least 
added the mortgage arrangement fee to the loan.
Quilter said the adviser had done nothing wrong and had recommended a suitable 
mortgage, and had progressed Ms Ds application as quickly as possible. 
Ms D referred her complaint to us. Our Investigator concluded that the adviser had 
calculated Ms Ds income wrongly and given that information to the lender. The Investigator 
wasnt satisfied that this had affected the amount Ms D was able to borrow, but he 
recommended that Quilter pay Ms D £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Ms D accepted that conclusion, but Quilter did not. It didnt accept that the adviser had used 
the wrong income in Ms Ds application, and said they had worked hard to get the 
application accepted, updating Ms D at all times.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ds income came from multiple sources and was paid at different times. The adviser 
realised at an early stage that this might not fit the lenders criteria, so they consulted the 
lender before completing an application. Quilter has said that it was during this initial 
discussion with the lender that the lender confirmed the maximum amount it might be 
prepared to lend  subject to a full assessment and underwriting. The application then 
proceeded on that basis.
The notes the adviser submitted to the lender, and of which Ive seen a copy, set out Ms Ds 
income and include payments received per calendar month from ESA and PIP. These 
amounts are, however, as Ms D has pointed out, the amounts she receives every four 
weeks, not every month. Added up over a year, this means her stated income in those notes 
was just over £1,000 less than the amounts she actually received. 
While the lender did later receive documents showing Ms Ds correct income, the available 
evidence indicates that the application was submitted on the basis of what the adviser told 
the lender about her income beforehand. And it was submitted for the mortgage amount the 
lender had indicated it might lend based on what it understood about Ms Ds income and 
circumstances before it received a completed application. 
So I can see why Ms D believes she could have borrowed more had her income, calculated 
annually, been relayed correctly to the lender. But I dont consider that this means she would 
necessarily have been able to borrow as much as £4,000 more. Income multipliers arent the 
only basis on which lenders make their lending decisions. Im also mindful that not borrowing 
more on her mortgage will mean Ms D pays less interest overall, and she chose to go ahead 
with the mortgage knowing how much she was borrowing and on what terms.
Ms D has said the adviser gave her false assurances about timescales, but I think they took 
reasonable steps to keep her updated about what was happening along the way. I wouldnt 
necessarily expect an adviser to tell a customer which particular team at a lender is 
considering an application, and I think the adviser chased up the lender for its decision 
appropriately. I dont consider that the process took an unreasonably long time, or that the 
adviser caused any unreasonable delay.
I do, however, agree with Ms D that the adviser made a mistake in presenting her income. 
Ms D has said she felt that a choice she should have had was taken away from her, and I 
think she has been caused some avoidable upset, frustration, and inconvenience. In all the 
circumstances, I share the Investigators view that £200 is a fair award in recognition of that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited should pay Ms D £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman