DRN-3498306
The complaint
Mr L, Mrs L and Ms L have complained about the handling of a claim made under a travel 
insurance policy underwritten by Inter Partner Assistance SA. They have also complained 
that Inter Partner Assistance SA have failed to meet their claim in full.
Ms L represents Mr L and Mrs L. Any reference to Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) also 
includes reference to its agents.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs L were abroad on a trip to a country Ill refer to as B. They were due to stay for 
four months. Very unfortunately, a fortnight into their trip Mr L took ill and was taken to 
hospital. Ms L is Mr and Mrs Ls daughter. She and her partner had also just arrived in B and 
learned that Mr L was in hospital. The complaint concerns IPAs handling of Mr Ls medical 
claim and the claims settlement.
Our investigator considered the complaint and sent a detailed report of her findings. She 
didnt find IPA to be at fault. Ms L was very unhappy with the investigators findings and 
appealed. As no agreement has been reached the case has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on 
what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed 
the complete file and listened to all call recordings. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, my role is to resolve individual disputes. In considering whats fair and reasonable, 
I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), has set out rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). ICOBS says, amongst other things, that insurers should 
handle claims promptly and fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Claim handling
Ms L has said that she was never advised that IPA was dealing with anything. IPA 
underwrite her policy. Many policies are branded differently but it is apparent from the policy 
document who the underwriter is. I understand that this can be confusing, but I dont agree 
that this means the assistance operators and doctors were not who they said they were. 
Ms L has made very detailed representations regarding the real difficulty she had in getting 
through to the helpline when dialling the numbers she had been given. She was hanging on 
for hours. Although the policy document gives the correct number to call Ms L called a 
different number via the concierge service provided as a benefit of the bank account to 
which she was a supplementary card holder. She has said that as a supplementary card 
holder she wouldnt have been provided with a policy document. I appreciate this but cant 
say that it was the responsibility of IPA to provide documents.
Attempting to get through to the assistance line clearly caused Ms L distress at what was 
already a very worrying time for the family and when she was in need of support. IPA has 
confirmed that its call records have been extensively reviewed and its calls were answered 
within service level agreement times. So, although I am not able to determine the exact 
cause of the delay, it seems more likely than not that it was due to an issue with the banks 
lines. Rather than Ms L getting through on the number she was calling as she should have, 
Ms L was caught in a loop. I can understand how frustrating this would have been, but like 
the investigator I cant say that IPA was at fault here.
Ms L says the family were misled into having the procedure in B. Its not necessary for me to 
repeat here the conversations had and the representations made. In summary its clear that 
originally it was thought that Mr L might need to be airlifted to another country. Ms L feels 
that Mr L should never have had the procedure in B. 
Ultimately this was a medical decision to be made by the medical professionals although 
IPAs doctor confirmed no decision would be made without involving Ms L. I think that was 
fair. IPAs doctor discussed with Ms L the options for Mr L but said they would need to wait 
for the results before a decision was made. He also explained why it might be risky to move 
Mr L and that they had confidence in Dr G, he was a renowned neurosurgeon who would be 
performing the procedure. Ms L agreed to this, as had Mr L.
I dont find that IPA failed in the service it provided here  understandably Ms L would have 
liked answers more quickly but she was aware of the difficulties that IPA had in getting 
through to speak to the doctors at the hospital. Likewise I dont find that IPAs doctor mis-led 
Ms L. I appreciate she thought that IPAs doctor had reviewed the medical records, but he 
didnt say that. I dont agree that the comment the scans show meant the doctor was 
saying he had seen them himself. He had spoken to a medical colleague and on that basis 
made the decision which he explained to her.
Ms L and her family believe that because Mr L was not given oxygen after his procedure, he 
went on to develop and air pocket, which in turn delayed his release from hospital. Mr L did 
develop an air pocket which meant he was advised to stay near the hospital. But Ive seen 
no medical evidence to support that this was because of a failing by the hospital or was the 
fault of IPA.
I understand too that Ms L felt that the hospital standards in B were poor and in particular the 
aftercare, but the medical advice was to proceed with the operation in B and ultimately Ms L 
agreed to this. The conditions in the hospital in B were beyond the control of IPA. As were 
the actions of hospital staff regarding requests for payment and not allowing the family to 
visit Mr L after his operation. Im satisfied that this wasnt at the direction of IPA, and that it 
was in regular contact with the hospital.
Overall I do understand Ms L felt that IPA was trying to save costs and that she was lied to, 
but Ive seen no evidence of either. Whilst I can see what a worrying time this was for the family, I dont find that IPA took any risks with Mr Ls life or erred in the handling of the claim 
up to this point.
Financial settlement
Its unfortunate that the original settlement made didnt include the hospital benefit that was 
due. I can see that IPA acknowledged this error and offered £50 in compensation  I find this 
was fair.
Ms L feels that their claim has not been settled in full and that over £5000 is still owing. 
Having regard to the policy cover Im satisfied that IPA has met its liabilities in full. All 
medical expenses have been covered and the cost of Mrs L to stay in a hotel whilst Mr L 
was I hospital. I understand why Ms L stayed with Mr and Mrs L and am not suggesting that 
it was not sensible, I can see too that arranged a discount thereby mitigating the hotel costs. 
But the policy doesnt extend to cover her stay as it provides cover for one friend or relative  
and here it was Mrs L. But on receipt of medical evidence from Dr G, IPA agreed to make a 
contribution of over 50% of the hotel costs incurred after Mr Ls discharge. I think that was 
reasonable, as Mr L didnt return home this wasnt strictly covered. 
This clearly was an extremely difficult time for the family  abroad and during the pandemic. 
But after careful review of the evidence I cant say IPA has failed to meet the claim or treated 
Mr L, Mrs L or Ms L unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reason given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L, Mrs L and 
Ms L to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman