DRN-2177526
The complaint
Ms M complains about AIG Life Limiteds decision to apply a mental health exclusion to her 
group income protection cover.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Insurers are entitled to decide which risks they wish to cover and which risks they 
wish to exclude. After AIG received details of Ms Ms previous medical history, it 
decided to apply an exclusion for anxiety state, depression or any mental health 
disorder to her increased cover. That was AIGs decision, and not one that this 
service can reasonably interfere with.
Although Ms Ms unhappy about the length of time it took for AIG to make a decision 
abut her application, I agree with the investigator that AIG wasnt responsible for the 
delays as it was waiting for further information from her GP.
AIGs assessment result dated 29 August 2019 was written in reference to the 
application for increased benefit. It explained that the mental health exclusion had 
been applied, and also said that if a claim were made and the cause of that claim 
arose from a condition excluded, no claim would be paid. I think AIG couldve made it 
clearer that this only applied to the increased benefit, rather than all of Ms Ms 
income protection cover. However, I dont think Ms M has been disadvantaged by 
this. She didnt need to make a claim, and AIG clarified to her on 3 October 2019 that 
the exclusion only applied to the additional cover. 
Although Ms M says she didnt apply to increase her income protection cover, AIG 
has confirmed that it received an application for Ms Ms cover to be increased. If 
Ms M still doesnt know why an application was made to increase her cover, I would 
suggest she raise this directly with her employer.
For these reasons, although I understand Ms Ms disappointment, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about AIG Life Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman