DRN-3744299
The complaint
The executor (Mr S) of Mr Hs estate has appointed his niece (Mrs H2) and a firm of 
solicitors (W) to complain on behalf of the estate. They are unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc 
refuses to refund money which, they say, Mr H lost having fallen victim to a fraudster.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to all the parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail. But, in summary, Mr S, Mrs H2 and W say:
HSBC failed to protect Mr H who was elderly, vulnerable and being abused and/or 
controlled by one or more individuals. The actions of these individuals caused Mr H (and 
his wife, Mrs H) to lose in the region of £1.7million between 2016 and Mr Hs death in 
May 2020. 
HSBC failed in its duty of care to protect Mr H and it should be held responsible for the 
resulting financial losses.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld  she didnt think the 
evidence suggested Mr H had fallen victim to a scam. Mrs H2 and W disagreed, so the 
complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision had been somewhat difficult to make. The events in question date back some 
time, there are a number of parties involved and Ive had to rely almost entirely on third 
parties to tell us what they think happened rather than having Mr Hs own recollections. And 
those third parties dont appear to have had a close relationship or regular interaction with 
Mr H and his wife at the time the events transpired. With all of this in mind, I have based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I considered most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence.
I have no doubt that, at the point he was admitted to hospital in June 2019, Mr H was a 
vulnerable customer, as defined by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). He was nearly 90, the medical evidence mentions he might have mixed Alzheimers 
and vascular dementia but that he had no carers, was independent and did not recognise 
the significant risks of returning home or continuing to drive with partial sightedness/memory 
impairment. As such, a safeguarding referral was made and its my understanding that Mr H 
then moved into a care home where his wife had already been residing for a few weeks.
With the above in mind, and as Mrs H2 and W point out, HSBC has certain obligations when 
it comes to the protection and fair treatment of vulnerable customers. But I dont agree the 
bank failed in its duty of care to Mr H.
In effect, Mrs H2 and W have suggested that Mr H was the victim of a fraud ring involving 
numerous linked companies and at least one key individual (who I will call Mr W). But I also 
note:
Some of those companies were FCA-regulated businesses and Ive seen nothing which 
suggests the FCA has expressed concerns, made sanctions against or suggested that 
any of those companies were scams. The executor of Mr Hs estate is entitled to pursue 
complaints against those companies  and, ultimately, with this service  if they are 
unhappy with the way they treated Mr H, which includes any investment advice he might 
have been given.
One of the regulated businesses has gone into liquidation but the FCA confirms on its 
register that the business continues to meet our standard in dealing with its customers. 
And No FCA or PRA disciplinary or regulatory action has been taken against any of the 
two directors of the business or Mr W. I note the FSCS has made an £85,000 award 
relating to this business  the maximum award it can make  but there is no suggestion 
on the FSCSs website that the company was scamming its customers.
I understand Mrs H2s and Ws concerns have been shared with both the police and 
trading standards. But Ive seen nothing which suggests either authority has taken action 
with respect to any of the named individuals or companies.
HSBC has checked with a number of the banks that hold the various business accounts 
to which Mr Hs (or his wifes) money was sent and none of them have reported any 
concerns about their customers and/or that other scam reports have been received.
Some money has been recovered from most of the investments that were made both 
with FCA-regulated firms and with unregulated businesses. I understand 
correspondence continues with some of these business and there may be more money 
to come in due course. I wouldnt expect this to happen if the investments had been 
scams. And it wouldnt be fair to tell the bank to cover losses which might be recovered 
via other means.
HSBC has inspected at least some of the cheques that have been disputed and had no 
concerns with the signatures being forgeries.
Mrs H2 has cited numerous debit card and direct debit payments which she doesnt think 
Mr H authorised and alleges that Mr W had stolen Mr Hs debit card. The banks records 
show Mr H reported hed lost one card in February 2016, one in October 2018 and 
another in November 2018, at which time the bank does seem to have refunded more 
than £2,500 of disputed transactions. So it does seem that Mr H was capable of telling 
the bank when transactions occurred that he didnt recognise. With that in mind, I cant 
fairly accept Mrs H2s suggestion that other debit card and direct debit payment were not 
authorised by Mr H and should be refunded.
Mr S has confirmed that a relative had been acting as Mr Hs accountant for some years. 
Yet she doesnt seem to have raised any concerns about his health, potential 
vulnerability and/or his investment choices with any other members of the family or with 
the bank. 
With the above in mind, even if I accept that Mr H may have been taken advantage of to 
some extent by one or more individuals, I havent seen sufficient evidence that persuades 
me there was a clear intention to defraud him. Mr H seems to have been an experienced 
investor and while the unregulated investments he made may not have been what Mrs H2, W or the executor of the estate believe to be sensible for an individual of his age, I cant see 
that making those investments left him in a precarious financial situation or that the bank had 
a duty to advise him against making such investments.
In all the circumstances of the complaint, I cant fairly hold the bank liable for the losses that 
have been claimed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S (on behalf of 
Mr Hs estate) to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman