DRN-2895168
The complaint
Ms A complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
Ms A is represented by a third party.
What happened
Ms A took three home collected loans between 2014 and 2018. A brief table summarises the
approved loans.
Loan Approved Amount of credit 
(net received after settlement 
of previous loan)Repayments 
(rounded figures)Repaid
1 24 September
2014£400 £11 x 51 weeks 15 November 2016
2 26 November
2016£1,000 (£886) £15 x 102 weeks 6 June 2018
3 9 June 2018 £1,000 (£640) £15 x 102 2 September 2020
Ms A has said that she was in financial difficulties and at one stage was repaying to Mutual
about £160 a month.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Mutual should put things
right for Ms A in relation to loans 2 and 3. Our adjudicator had incorrect information about
the loan 1 (repayment date) which has been clarified by Mutual recently.
Mutual disagreed with the outcome and asked that it be reviewed by an ombudsman. It was 
passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 7 June 2021 indicating that on the 
evidence I had I was planning not to uphold Ms As complaint. That provisional decision has 
been acknowledged by Ms As representative and follows on from a request by me for 
additional information in May 2021. No additional information has been received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
Ms A having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
Ms A having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms A coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But as I have explained in my provisional 
decision (duplicated later in this final decision) I do not think that the circumstances of Ms As 
case lead me to conclude that this applied.
Mutual was required to establish whether Ms A could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And 
the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
I carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms As complaint, and my provisional decision dated 
7 June 2021 is duplicated here in italics for ease of reading. 
Provisional decision findings 
Preliminary factual point
Ms A complained to Mutual on 10 September 2020. Loan 1 was approved on 24 September
2014 which is within six years. There has been some correspondence relating to the
jurisdiction of that loan but it seems to be clear that Ms As complaint was brought within six
years of the action about which she is complaining. So, I say no more about this. And in any
event, it seems that Mutual has agreed for loan 1 to be reviewed by this Service.
Irresponsible lending
As a new customer to Mutual in 2014, having reviewed the information Ms A gave to it upon
application and the loan amount applied for, I think that the checks it carried out were in
proportion. I do not think that Mutual needed to do more. I do not plan to uphold Ms As
complaint about loan 1.Ms A applied for loan 2 in November 2016 for £1,000. Ms A was planning to use some of
that principal sum to repay loan 1 as I can see from the notes made by the agent at the time
of the application that she redeemed loan 1 by paying about £114 on the day she took
loan 2.
Loan 1 was scheduled to have been a 51 week term (about a year), so it was due to have
been paid off in mid-September 2015. However, In November 2016 Ms A needed some of
the loan 2 money to completely repay loan 1. This means she repaid loan 1 very late, and
I think that Mutual ought to have carried out some additional checks before approving loan 2,
such as checking to see if she had any other home credit or short term loans which needed
paying.
I do not have much information about Ms As financial situation in November 2016. I asked
Mutual for the credit search carried out at that time but it has said it does not keep records
earlier than 2017. And I asked Ms A for a copy of her own credit file (which would have
covered a six year history) and for copies of her bank statements to cover the lending period.
However I have received nothing. I asked for these to be sent to me by 25 May 2021.
Using what I have  which are the notes made by the agent of Ms As declared income and
expenditure, then it seems she said the following:
- Her full time salary was £21,000 a year
- She received £228 a week in benefits
- The agents total income figure per week for Ms A came to £561
- The outgoings given at the application stage amounted to £243 a week
So, this would result in Mutual considering that a £15 a week repayment figure was 
affordable. Mutual had asked about Ms As partners income which had been noted as £200
a week as well, and whether that was factored in to the creditworthiness assessment or not,
I can see why Mutual approved the loan.
This contrasts with information Ms A has given to her representative on what is named as
the Claim Audit Survey form (audit form). Its dated next to Ms As signature as
September 2020 and Ms A was asked to fill in what her typical monthly net pay/benefits and
outgoings were at the time she was a customer of Mutual. So, I do not know which period
these figures are meant to relate to. But Ms A has said that her income was
- Net monthly salary income £1,100
- Typical monthly benefits £600
- Expenditure (I have removed the figure for clothes as we do not usually include 
that) which amounts to £1,370.
So, on Ms As own figures, this left her with around £230 a month left over as outlined in the
form dated September 2020.
Therefore, when this case was first allocated to me, with different figures and Ms As reason
for bringing the complaint, I felt that I needed more in order to verify the figures and find out
the real situation. 
I asked our adjudicator to write to Ms As representative as I needed to know the actual 
financial situation. As I have said earlier  nothing has been received.
So, using the information I have, I think that both Ms As figures and the figures declared to
Mutual at the time of the application for loan 2 demonstrate that she was able to afford £15 a
week. So, I am planning not to uphold Ms As complaint about Loan 2. And I do not think that
there is justification for an uphold of loan 2 based on repeat lending.For Loan 3 (£1,000), I have a bit more information as Mutual has sent to me a credit search
it carried out in June 2018, about the time Ms A applied for loan 3.
The agents notes at the time show me that Ms A had to use some of the principal money
from loan 3 to repay loan 2 and I dont think that was too unusual as it was about 19 months
into the two year loan 2 term. There was no overlapping of the loan: the second loan was
repaid early and Ms A took a fresh loan.
However, the loan 3 application was four years after the first loan and was for more than
double the amount of that first loan. So, Ms A had been asking Mutual for credit for some
time and the amount had increased. I think that a full financial review ought to have been
carried out by Mutual before approving it in order to check that she was able to afford it and
that there was not an underlying reason why Ms A was applying for more credit.
Ms As declared figures at the time of application show that there was no additional income
from a partner, but her salary was £2,500 a month. It is not clear whether that was a gross
figure or a net of tax figure. But the agent had calculated it as a total of just under £625 a
week (including some benefits) with £267 outgoings. These figures led to a calculation
whereby Ms A had £357 a week left over.
As Ms As explanation was that she was not able to cope financially at the time, then Id
ideally like to look to see what Ms As financial position was. But as I have explained, no 
additional information has been sent to me.
And on the declared figures, plus the information Ms A gave to her representative on the
audit form (unverified), which are different, then I must go on what Mutual had from its own
resources at the time of the loan 3 application.
The other factual evidence I have is the Mutual credit search carried out before approving
loan 3. Reviewing that I can see that the bulk of Ms As debt was a hire purchase agreement
which had commenced in September 2016 (just before loan 2), the outstanding balance for
which in June 2018 was around £12,000. It is likely that this was a HP agreement for a car,
but I have no details on it. Ms As repayments were around £290 a month and I can see that
there are other places in the notes and in Ms As explanations to her representative where
Ms A has declared a figure like this either as an additional expense or another credit
commitment.
Ms As credit file also reveals she had virtually no balance on her two credit cards (around
£40 to £50) and had two relatively small unsecured loans (not high cost credit). Ms A had
one other home credit loan outstanding in June 2018 which appears to have commenced in
October 2017 and so I think it was with another home-credit lender. That was a regular
repayment of around £93 a month, paid weekly.
Overall, apart for the capital purchase of what I assume was a car, this credit report does not
present the picture of a person in trouble financially. And I have not seen any evidence of 
Ms A paying around £160 a month to Mutual.
Ive thought carefully about the concept of repeat lending and whether this plus the other
evidence I have leads me to conclude that Ms A was not able to repay the £15 a week
sustainably. On the information and figures currently available to me, I do not think that was
the case. So, I am planning not to uphold Ms As complaint about loan 3.
Having asked for the additional evidence before issuing this provisional decision, I will
indicate that I plan to apply the reply deadline date strictly.My final decision findings 
Ms A has had time since May 2021 to send to me additional information but none has been 
received.
So, I see no reason to change the findings I made in my provisional decision on 
7 June 2021, and I repeat them here.
I do not uphold Ms As complaint for the reasons given earlier. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman