DRN-3269392
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the settlement figure provided by Bamboo Limited (Bamboo). She 
also says she couldnt afford the loan.
What happened
Bamboo lent Mrs G a loan of £3,000 in June 2018.
Mrs G initially made a complaint about a settlement figure provided by Bamboo and said it 
was incorrect. Our investigator looked into this and said he could not find anything wrong 
with what Bamboo did here. And Mrs G has not provided any further comments about this.
Mrs G also said she couldnt afford the loan. Our investigator looked into this and in 
particular whether Bamboo irresponsibly provided the loan to Mrs G. He concluded that 
Bamboo didnt carry out proportionate checks and said if it had done so, it would have seen 
that Mrs G couldnt afford the loan repayments. So, he upheld Mrs Gs complaint. 
Bamboo gave reasons why it felt it carried out proportionate checks. It says Mrs G declared 
that she worked full time with a monthly wage of £1200 plus benefit of £136. It says after 
assessing her expenditure, it could see that she could afford the loan repayments. It also 
says it was Mrs Gs first loan with it. It says with its assessment, use of Office of National 
Statistics (ONS) data and a credit search, that it did enough checks and from the information 
it gathered made a fair lending decision.
As the parties dont agree, Mrs Gs complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
oI looked at the settlement figure Bamboo worked out and how it communicated this to 
Mrs G and like the investigator, I couldnt see anything that it did that was wrong in 
this instance. 
oI then looked at whether the loan was affordable for Mrs G and whether Bamboo did 
anything wrong when it agreed to lend to her. Bamboo says it carried out 
proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Mrs G. It says it gathered information 
from Mrs G to ask about her expenditure, verified her income using an online income 
verifier and carried out a credit search. It says based on what it gathered the loan 
was affordable.
oFrom what I can see, this loan was due to be repaid over 48 monthly instalments of
around £153.95. Given the length of the loan commitment and size of the loan, I 
would have expected to Bamboo to ask Mrs G about her monthly income and 
expenses including verifying some of the information she provided in more detail. I 
can also see that Mrs Gs credit card was close to its limit and she was already 
repaying this and another loan. With this credit commitment and the loan repayment 
from Bamboo, Mrs G would potentially be committing around 21% of her income to 
debt. So, I think on seeing this and from what I have already concluded, it ought to 
have prompted Bamboo to find out more to assure itself Mrs G could repay the loan 
repayments over the 4 years in a sustainable way. I cant see that it did this or verify 
any of Mrs Gs expenditure and so I dont think its checks went far enough.
oMrs G has provided copies of her bank statements from around the time of the loan. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from Bamboo at the time of the loan 
as I think her bank statements provide a clear picture about her actual financial
circumstances at the time. From what I can see, Mrs G had more essential 
expenditure coming out of her account on average than income coming in. So, I think 
it would have become clear that Mrs G wouldnt have been able to afford the loan 
repayments. I think if Bamboo had carried out further checks it would have 
uncovered this and not given her the loan.
oIn the circumstances, Bamboo lent to Mrs G when it shouldnt have, and it needs to 
put things right.
Putting things right
While I think Bamboo shouldnt have lent to Mrs G, I think it will be fair for her to repay the 
capital of £3,000 which she borrowed. So, to put things right, Bamboo should:
add up all the payments made by Mrs G, if it exceeds the capital amount of £5,000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mrs G, remove 
any adverse information recorded on Mrs G credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to above. 
Bamboo must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and I direct Bamboo Limited to put
things right as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman