DRN-3119309
The complaint
Ms S complains that she couldnt make payments into her Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) Triple Access Online Saver Account from her external accounts. Ms S also 
complains about other issues in relation to the account opening. 
What happened
On 19 February 2021, Ms S opened a savings account with Nationwide. Shortly after the 
account opened, Ms S attempted to make transfers of £1 to the account from her external 
banks. Ms S says that when she attempted the transfers, her external banks came back with 
the same information  that the account didnt exist. The following day, Ms S attempted the 
transfer from one of her external accounts to the savings account, and the transfer was 
successful.
Ms S also states that she didnt receive an email from Nationwide confirming that the 
account had been opened. She checked with her email service provider to ensure she was 
receiving emails correctly, and they responded to say there didnt appear to be any issues 
with the email account. Ms S says that she isnt able to receive any emails from Nationwide 
and this is an ongoing issue. 
Ms S says that Nationwide didnt provide her with the payee name for the account, so she 
was unsure what payee name she should be entering for the transfers. 
And shes said that she received some incorrect information from a representative of 
Nationwide during a phone call on 16 March 2021.
Ms S would like compensation for the things she says that Nationwide has done wrong. 
Nationwide responded to Ms Ss complaint on 24 March 2021. It said it didnt know why Ms 
S wasnt receiving its emails and confirmed that it held the correct email address for her. It 
offered a call with its IT department to try and resolve the issue. It also explained that it 
couldnt see any attempted transfers into the account until the successful one on 20 
February 2021  and it couldnt comment on why an external banks may not be able to find 
the account. The response explained that the sort code and account number is important 
when making a transfer, and the account name is to prevent customers from transferring 
funds to the wrong account or falling victim to scams. Nationwide did though explain that 
some of the information Ms S was given over the phone didnt relate to her situation, and it 
apologised for the confusion here. 
Ms S brought the complaint to this service as she was unhappy with this response  and she 
felt that she should be compensated for the distress, confusion and anxiety this situation has 
caused her  along with the time she spent trying to make a payment to the account on 19 
February 2021. 
Our Investigator looked into Ms Ss complaint, but they didnt uphold it. They couldnt find 
any evidence to persuade them that Nationwide had done anything wrong. And they 
explained that they thought the apology Nationwide had already given was sufficient for the 
confusing information Ms S received on the phone. 
Ms S didnt agree with the Investigators view. I have summarised her main points below:
There was a delay in her being able to invest into the account because she didnt feel 
safe doing so until she was satisfied the account was open.
Much time was spent attempting to make a payment of £1.
She is still having issues receiving some of Nationwides emails. As a result, she now 
has to check her account regularly to see if the interest rate has changed, because 
she says Nationwide wont communicate changes to the account in a different way.
Its also worth noting here that Ms S brought a very similar complaint to this service about 
another savings account she had with Nationwide. An Ombudsman has already issued their 
decision on this complaint, and so I wont be commenting on any of the findings this 
Ombudsman has already investigated and decided on.
Because Ms S didnt agree with our Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything Ive seen; I wont be upholding Ms Ss complaint. 
Ill cover off each of Ms Ss main complaint points below.
Unsuccessful transactions into the account
I dont think its in dispute here that Ms S wasnt able to transfer payments from some of her 
external accounts into this saver account. Ms S has provided evidence from her external 
banks that shows the transfers were unsuccessful because the external banks didnt 
recognise the new account information. 
Nationwide has also provided evidence to show that the account was open. And that it had 
no record of payments being attempted into the account on 19 February 2021. 
Its clear that Ms S wasnt able to make the transfer on 19 February, but I dont have enough 
information to fairly say that this is down to something Nationwide has done wrong.
I can see that Ms S opened the account at around 19.15 on 19 February, and then around 
40 minutes later attempted the transfers. Given that the account had been open for less than 
an hour at the time of the transfers, its possible that the new account information hadnt yet 
become available externally, which could be why Ms Ss external banks couldnt make the 
transfer at that time. 
Even if I were to find that Nationwide failed here, I still wouldnt be recommending that it pay 
Ms S compensation. Compensation awards should reflect the distress and inconvenience 
someone has gone through as a result of something the business did wrong. And the level of 
the award will likely reflect the impact this has had on that person.
 
I appreciate that it must have been frustrating to Ms S that she wasnt able to make 
transfers. But it looks like the issue was resolved the following day. It doesnt appear that there was an urgency on Ms Ss part for the transfer to go ahead, as I cant see any 
transfers into the account after 20 February 2021 until the end of April 2021. So, I think the 
impact here is minimal.
I understand Ms S says she had to delay investing into the account until she deemed it  safe 
to do so, so the next transfer Ms S made into the account was in April. But given that the 
transfer Ms S made on 20 February 2021 was successful, I dont see any reason why it 
might not have been safe for her to carry out a transfer after this date. So, I wont be holding 
Nationwide responsible for any financial losses Ms S may have incurred as a result of Ms S 
delaying future transfers. And Ive not seen anything to indicate Nationwide did something 
that might have led Ms S to delay making any payments into the account until then.
In addition to the above, Ms S has told our Investigator that the reason she opened this 
account was to see if she experienced the same issue as she did when she opened her 
other savings account. While Ms S might have gone through inconvenience in attempting to 
make the £1 payments to the account, I think the reason she went through this was to try 
and support what she was saying about her external banks showing the account didnt exist. 
And not because she legitimately wanted to make a transfer at this time. I can see that Ms S 
does now use the account; but transfers into the account didnt start until the end of April 
2021. In my view, any inconvenience Ms S may have suffered here was as a result of 
something she decided to do to support her other complaint, which I wouldnt ask Nationwide 
to compensate her for.  
Based on what Ive said above, I cant fairly say that Nationwide were responsible for the 
unsuccessful transfers. 
Nationwide didnt let Ms S know the payee name on the account
Ms S says that Nationwide didnt let her know what the payee name on the account was. 
And so, she didnt know what account name she should put on external transfers for the 
transfer to be successful. 
I agree with what Ms S has said here, I havent seen any evidence of Nationwide telling Ms 
S the account name. But I dont think this has had a negative impact on Ms S. 
I say this because, it is the sort code and account number that are important when 
completing a transfer  this information determines what account the transfer goes to and 
this is standard across all banks. The account name is for the person initiating the transfer to 
check the payment is going to the correct account, and to try to prevent customers from 
falling victim to scams. So, I dont think it was necessary of Nationwide to let Ms S know this 
information. 
And again, Ms S was able to make the transfer the day after she opened the account  so 
this hasnt impacted her ability to be able to make transfers.
Ms S didnt receive a confirmation email from Nationwide to say the account had been 
opened.
Ms S says that she isnt getting some of the emails Nationwide says it is sending to her. Ms 
S has also provided evidence from her email provider saying that emails are being correctly 
received. 
I can see that Nationwide had the correct email address for Ms S, and I have seen a copy of 
the Welcome email it says it sent to Ms S. Due to the passage of time, Nationwide no 
longer has records of the email being sent. But I dont draw anything negative from this. It 
isnt unusual for a business to have not retained this type of information after so long.It isnt clear why Ms S didnt receive the email. But based on what Ive seen, I cant fairly 
conclude that Nationwide didnt send it, or that Ms S not receiving it was as a result of 
something Nationwide did wrong. I dont have enough evidence to say that on a balance of 
probabilities, Nationwide was responsible for the problems she had with not receiving e-
mails. 
In any event, it doesnt appear that Ms S not receiving the Welcome email has negatively 
impacted her. I can see that Nationwide also sent this to her by post  both correspondence 
included very similar information. While the letter would have taken longer for Ms S to 
receive, she still had her account information available, so this hasnt prevented her from 
being able to make external transfers to the account from 20 February 2021. 
I can see that the Ombudsman who looked into Ms Ss previous complaint also addressed 
Ms Ss point about not receiving emails by saying:
I did note that even though Ms S hadnt received emails from Nationwide, it was still able to 
correspond with her by other means. So, for example it had posted the Welcome letter to her 
address. And she was able to correspond with it using Nationwides secure messaging 
service.
In circumstances where she hadnt received emails sent to the email address shed
provided, I thought it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to ask her if she would consider
providing it with an alternative email address. I remain of that view.
Given that the Ombudsman has already given an answer to this part of Ms Ss complaint, I 
wont comment on this further. But for clarity, I agree with what the Ombudsman has said 
here.
I think this also answers Ms Ss ongoing complaint about not receiving all of Nationwides 
emails more generally. Im not aware that Ms S has provided Nationwide with an alternative 
email address in an attempt to rectify the issue. And if she has, and she still isnt receiving 
emails from Nationwide, then this would need to be a separate complaint to Nationwide to 
investigate.
Customer service on the phone
Nationwide has already agreed that some of the information Ms S was given by one of its 
representatives during a phone call wasnt relevant to Ms Ss situation. The information was 
about why Ms S might not have been able to make the transfer. But given that Ms S was 
able to make transfers by the time this conversation had taken place, the confusion appears 
to be over the initial cause of the issue, and so I dont think Ms S has lost out here, other 
than perhaps a misunderstanding as to why the problem arose. I think Nationwides apology 
for this is sufficient. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman