DRN-2220277
The complaint
Miss C complains that about the charges imposed by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK)
Limited trading as Audi Finance on the return of her lease car.
What happened
Miss C took out a two year lease for a car with Volkswagen Financial Services UK Ltd
(VWFS), starting on 6 September 2017. Just before the end of the lease the car developed a
fault with the fuel cap so Miss C arranged for it to go back into the local main dealership for
repair. At the same time she arranged for it to be collected from the dealership and returned 
in line with the agreement.
While the car was in for repair, the garage carried out a visual inspection of the cars brakes 
and tyres. The recording of this inspection was sent to Miss C and confirmed they were in
good order. But shortly after, Miss C got an invoice from VWFS for £518.87. This was made 
up of several days extra rental together with damage to two tyres and three rims plus a dent 
on one of the doors.
Miss C disputed this and said the tyres had been in good condition on return as confirmed by
the video and report from the dealership. Shed made arrangements for its return and wasnt
responsible if it was collected late.
VWFS said thered been an independent inspection of the car on its return in accordance 
with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) Guidelines. This noted the 
following six areas of damage:
dent to the left had front door £36
gouge to Left hand front tyre £136
gouge to left hand rear tyre £136
scratched wheel left hand front £36
scratched wheel right hand rear £36
scratched wheel left hand rear £36
VWFS said these were outside of what was standard wear and tear and Miss C was 
responsible for them in line with the terms of the agreement. It said it hadnt charged for the 
extra days rental so the final invoice was £415.96.
Our investigator said that the independent report wasnt clear as to the extent of some of the 
damage recorded and, as such, it wasnt clear that it did meet the BVRLA guidelines to be 
charged. He recommended that the VWFS amend its invoice to £171.98 made up of the cost 
of replacing one tyre and refurbishing one of the alloys and that the other charges should be 
removed. 
On 20 August 2020 I issued a provisional decision and said in summary:
There was clear discrepancy between the report produced after the cars return and 
the condition Miss C said the car was in when she left it at the garage.  In such cases 
I had to make my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words what was 
more likely than not to have happened taking into account the circumstances of the 
case.
The question in this case was whether the issues identified by VWFS were outside of 
what would be considered to be wear and year, using the BVRLA guidelines, which 
are the industry accepted standards for assessing damage and usage and if there 
was damage, when it occurred.
In Miss C's case car had been inspected on its return by an independent assessor 
using these guidelines. This had identified six items that the assessor considered 
were more than wear and tear and VWFS therefore sent Miss C an invoice for the 
cost of repair.
Miss C denied that the car had been damaged on its return. She provided a visual 
report taken by the garage on the day she had left it for repair that confirmed the 
tyres and brakes were in good condition. She pointed out that it had been collected 
from the garage and she hadnt seen or used it after she had taken it in for repair.
These were both reliable reports but which, on the face of it, appeared to be 
contradictory. However, this wasnt necessarily the case as the report by the garage 
had been focussed on the safety and integrity of the brakes and tyres. It had not 
been looking for cosmetic damage and it wouldnt be expected that it would have 
commented on those unless they were significant. The post return inspection was a 
more detailed report looking at all areas of the car, including cosmetic damage. 
The garage had confirmed that there had been no gouges to any of the tyres and that 
if there had been, it would have raised this at the time. On that basis it seemed 
unlikely that these had been present when Miss C left the car at the garage. Miss C 
hadnt seen or used the car after it went into the garage and it seemed probable that 
this damage must have occurred after that and after shed handed over responsibility 
for its return. On that basis it would be unreasonable to hold her responsible for the 
damage to the tyres.
With regard to the scuffs on the wheel trims, these were cosmetic and for that 
reason, I felt it possible the garage wouldnt have reported on these even if theyd 
been present. As such, I couldnt reasonably say there hadnt been scuffs on three of 
the alloys when the car was taken in for repair and then returned.
Having said that its not just whether the alloys were scuffed that was relevant but the 
size of the marks. The report hadnt given any specific measurements to clarify this 
but looking at the photos provided, it wasnt clear that the scuff on the left-hand rear 
alloy was more than 50cm in total. It needed to be more than that to be chargeable 
and as this wasnt clear, I couldnt agree Miss C should pay for this. The other two 
rims however showed more obvious and larger marks that couldnt be classified as 
wear and tear and for which Miss C was responsible, therefore.
In respect of the dent in the door, the BVRLA guidelines say that dents of 15mm or 
less are acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint 
surface is not broken. Again the photo relating to this dent wasn't clear enough to 
show the actual size of the dent or whether the paint surface had been broken.  
Without clear information, it wasnt possible to say that this was a chargeable repair 
under the BVRLA guidelines and for that reason, I considered it unfair to bill Miss C 
for this.In summary therefore I proposed that VWFS amend its invoice to Miss C to cover the 
cost of repairs to two of the wheel trims (£72) but not for anything else. 
I asked Miss C and VWFS to comment. VWFS havent replied. Miss C has replied to say the 
car had only done 8,000 miles during the two years shed had it which didnt fit with the 
severe damage to the tyres reported on its return. She queried what evidence there was to 
show that shed caused the damage or when the damage had been done.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent seen anything to cause me to depart from my provisional decision. 
The garage is clear that there wasnt any damage to the tyres at the time the car was left at 
its premises by Miss C. I think it unlikely it would have missed such damages as it had done 
a careful inspection. On balance, therefore, I consider it more probable the gouges 
happened after it left the garage. As this was after Miss C had handed over responsibility for 
its return, it would be unreasonable and unfair to hold her responsible for the damage to the 
tyres.
With regard to the other items noted in the report, the information on two of these wasnt 
sufficiently clear to show they met the BVRLA guidelines to be chargeable. Without clearer 
information, and precise measurements, I dont consider its fair to ask Miss C to be 
responsible for these.
That left the marks noted on the alloys on the left-hand front and right-hand rear wheels. 
These were clearly larger and even without precise measurements appeared to fall within 
the guidelines to be charged. Ive taken into account Miss C s view that there was no 
evidence to show when this had happened. However marks like this are not always 
immediately obvious and while the garage has been clear there was no damage to the tyres 
it wasnt able to be so precise with regard to any other damage. Taking all the information 
into account, I cant be certain that the marks werent present at the time it was handed over 
or on that basis, that VWFS is wrong to bill Miss C for these repairs in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement.
Putting things right
Accordingly I consider that VWFS is entitled to bill Miss C for the cost of repairs to two 
alloys, totalling £72, but not for any of the other damage identified. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint in part and direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Ltd trading as Audi Finance to reduce its invoice for damage to Miss C to £72.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman