DRN-1619867
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy at how Kindertons Ltd dealt with his claim following a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mr W was involved in a road traffic accident in April 2019, which resulted in damage to both 
his car and bicycle. Kindertons were instructed to deal with the claim, and the repairs to Mr 
Ws car were completed in May. But Kindertons didnt deal with the claim for the damage to 
the bicycle as quickly as they couldve. 
Mr W has complained about how Kindertons handled his claim and that the delay in dealing 
with the damage to the bicycle resulted in his holiday being ruined.
Kindertons acknowledged they couldve done better. They said there was a lack of response 
to some of Mr Ws emails, caused by the file handler being ill and their work not being picked 
up by someone else. Because of this theyd offered Mr W £50 to resolve his complaint.
Our investigator found that Mr W made it clear from the start that he was also claiming for 
the damage to his bicycle, but it was four months before Kindertons started to deal with this 
part of the claim. Because of this delay, she recommended Kindertons increase the 
compensation theyd offered from £50 to £100.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He says that, because of the delay in dealing with 
the bicycle claim, a family holiday was ruined  they werent able to spend the holiday 
cycling as a whole family as they do every year. Hes also said that Kindertons didnt tell him 
he could rent a bicycle for the holiday and could claim these costs back. He wasnt prepared 
to spend £800 to £1,000 renting a bicycle for two weeks without this confirmation.
Mr W feels that his claim was handled with high incompetence, constantly delayed, no 
handovers being made. He feels there was plenty of time between the accident (April) and 
the holiday (late July) for the bicycle claim to be concluded. So he doesnt think that £100 is 
sufficient for all that pain, stress and everything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The fact that Kindertons couldve dealt with the claim better isnt disputed. Ive seen their 
case notes and, when Mr W reported the claim, Kindertons noted he will also be looking to 
claim for professional mountain bikes which have been damaged. So Kindertons knew from 
the outset that the claim was for damage to both Mr Ws car and bicycle.The case notes show that Mr W had some trouble contacting Kindertons when he initially 
made his claim. But they also show his car was booked in for repair a few days after the 
accident took place, and the repair was completed in early May, at a time agreed with Mr W.
On 25 April Kindertons told Mr W they could claim costs from the third party involved in the 
accident and asked him to send in pictures and receipts for the damaged bicycle. Mr W had 
also been asked to return a Statement of Truth, giving his side of the accident. While 
Kindertons were able to deal with the damage to the car in the meantime, the bicycle claim 
couldnt be started until these documents had been returned.
In a call on 21 May, Mr W told Kindertons he couldnt provide a receipt for his bicycle. So 
Kindertons asked him to provide some evidence of how much a replacement would cost. Mr 
W was also asked for this when he called Kindertons on 4 June.
Mr W called Kindertons on 11 June to make a complaint about how long the bicycle claim 
was taking to be dealt with. He said hed provided the information Kindertons had asked for 
twice, but Kindertons said they hadnt received this. The case notes show Kindertons 
received the information on 12 June. But Kindertons didnt sent the claim to the Third-Party 
Insurer (TPI) until 9 July. This was an avoidable delay of about a month.
The TPI initially queried the damage to the bike and whether it could be repaired instead of 
replaced. But they settled the claim for a replacement bicycle on 13 September and sent 
Kindertons a cheque. It took just over nine weeks for the TPI to settle the claim and I cant 
hold Kindertons responsible for this  it was outside of their control, the TPI were entitled to 
raise a query about a repair instead of replacement, and there was nothing Kindertons could 
do to speed up the TPIs process.
Kindertons admit there were avoidable delays in dealing with Mr Ws claim and say this was 
due to a file handler being off ill and their work not being covered. This also meant that 
emails Mr W sent them werent responded to. Ive not seen anything to show me exactly 
when Mr W first sent Kindertons the information they asked for, so the bicycle claim could 
proceed. But from the case notes, this would be sometime between 4 and 11 June 2019.
If Kindertons had dealt with the bicycle claim at that point, its likely Mr W wouldve received 
his payment nine weeks later  between 6 and 13 August. So, even if there hadnt been any 
delay, Mr W wouldnt have received the money to but a replacement bicycle until after his 
family cycling holiday. And, as Ive said, this nine-week delay in paying out was down to the 
TPI, not Kindertons.
Ive also seen that Kindertons case notes for 16 April 2019 say ***NO ABROAD HOLS*** 
So, when Mr W first reported the accident, he didnt tell Kindertons he had an cycling holiday 
coming up in a few months, and that he would need his bicycle replaced before then. Mr Ws 
said the holiday went ahead as planned, although it wasnt the holiday he expected because 
he didnt have his bicycle. But I havent seen anything that shows me Mr W made Kindertons 
aware of this holiday before it took place. So I cant say Kindertons did anything wrong by 
not advising Mr W whether the TPI were likely to cover any cycle hire charges or not.
Because of this Im in agreement with the investigator that Kindertons should increase their 
offer of compensation from £50 to £100  their original offer didnt take into consideration the 
delays in them making the bicycle claim to the TPI. But I dont agree this should be 
increased to cover the disappointment of Mr Ws holiday  even without the delays it was 
highly unlikely the bicycle claim wouldve been settled before the holiday.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Kindertons Ltd must pay Mr W 
£100 to compensate him for the stress and upset caused by how they handled his claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman