DRN-4517033
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refuses to refund the money he lost to a scam. 
What happened
Mr S was approached via telephone by someone he deemed to be educated who claimed to 
represent a company based in Switzerland. He turned down the individuals offer to invest in 
rare earth metals and explained he had previously traded in share options. The individual 
came back with what Mr S described as an impressive offer for an investment opportunity. 
Mr S said he checked the company corporate number and saw it was registered by the 
Swiss authorities who Mr S understood to be respected for being efficient and rigorous with 
paperwork administration. He said he also checked online for fraud warnings from the UK 
regulator at the time and checked for other adverse information. He found no bad reviews 
involving the company who Ill call S. 
The individual Mr S was speaking with shared his work history credentials with him and he 
says he was very patient and not pressing him too hard at first. Mr S made a small 
investment and he said the individual was persistent and called and emailed for over three 
months to gain his trust and build a bond before suggesting a larger investment. 
Mr S says he made large wire transfers at home and HSBC called him but all it did was 
check it was him that was making the payment. But when his largest investment was made, 
he had to do this in a branch. He said he wasnt questioned about the payment. 
In total, Mr S sent £89,723.31 from his HSBC current account to the scammers between 27 
February 2013 to 11 June 2013. The overseas wire transfer payments in dispute were made 
as follows:
1. 27 February 2013 - £4,000
2. 8 April 2013 - £5,478
3. 11 June 2013 - £80,245.31
Around July 2013, Mr S first contacted HSBC to raise his concerns about S. He later asked 
for HSBC to recover his payments and subsequently complained about it not protecting him 
from financial harm. 
HSBC issued its final response declining Mr S claim. It said that the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code was implemented on 28 May 2019 and was applicable 
to payments on or after this date and wasnt applicable to overseas payments. 
It said it contacted the beneficiary bank to advise them of Mr S allegations and noted it also 
contacted the beneficiary bank in August 2013 and received no response. It said the checks 
it carries out now are different to what it was required to carry out in 2013 and explained it 
was for the customer to conduct relevant background checks before sending any money. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators explained that the in-branch payment ought to have been 
considered as unusual and the transaction should have been questioned by the branch. 
However, he noted expectations of banks over the years have evolved and he didnt think 
HSBC would have had cause to suspect that S could be a scam as Mr S had already carried 
out his due diligence prior to investing. And as there were no credible sources of adverse 
information about S, he didnt think Mr S would be dissuaded from investing. 
On 30 November 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mr S complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, 
its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I 
need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reached materially the same conclusions as that of our Investigator. Ive explained my 
reasons below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, I am required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations (in this case the 2009 regulations) and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. That was the case from February 2013 to June 2013, and remains so 
now, and I have taken this into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case. In addition:  
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6). 
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime:
The 2012 thematic review paper Banks defences against investment fraud  
Detecting perpetrators and protecting victims (the 2012 paper) sets out such 
non-exhaustive examples. And I am satisfied that the findings of this thematic 
review and SYSC 3.2.6R are of relevance to both sending and receiving banks. 
For example, the 2012 paper considered banks efforts to counter fraud where 
both the customer is the fraudster and also where the customer is the victim, in 
light of the regulatory obligation to counter the risk that regulated firms might be 
used to further financial crime, including fraud.
The FSA also explained in the 2012 paper that whilst it focused on investment 
fraud it was of some relevance to other types of fraud as well. Specifically, it said we have a regulatory remit to tackle investment fraud, which has prompted our 
particular interest in this area, although the lessons of this report can be applied 
to banks handling of other types of fraud and criminal conduct affecting their 
customers.
Further, I note over the years that the FCA has issued various press releases about fines 
and prosecutions of firms (HSBC included) for alleged failures to exercise due diligence with 
regard to the requirements of the Money Laundering Regulations 2007. 
It seems clear from this that standards of due diligence and good industry practice have 
existed for a long time  including at the time of the disputed events in our case here. Taking 
all of these things into account, I consider that at the time of the payments in 2013, HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably have:
monitored accounts  and any payments made or received  in order to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
maintained systems to look out for unusual and uncharacteristic transactions, or 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things), 
particularly given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
taken additional steps or made additional checks in some circumstances  
irrespective of the payment channel used  before processing a payment; or in some 
cases, to have declined to make a payment altogether in order to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied that Mr S authorised the transactions in dispute. I appreciate he doesnt agree 
with the terminology of the phrase authorised. But Im satisfied these were authorised 
payments in accordance with the PSR 2009 and the terms and conditions of Mr S account. 
In other words, Im satisfied he instructed HSBC to make payments out of his account to a 
particular destination  although I appreciate he was unaware at the time that these 
payments were going to scammers. And the starting position is Mr S is liable for those 
payments. But taking all of the things Ive mentioned into account, I need to decide whether 
HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S when he made three payments 
totalling £89,723.31, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Due to the time that has passed, HSBC has been unable to provide me with Mr S account 
statements and has provided limited contact notes from the time. So, Ive based my 
conclusions on the evidence I have available to me and what I think is fair and reasonable. 
In relation to the first payment. Mr S says he made this at home and HSBC called just to 
check hed authorised it. I think this check was proportionate to the risks HSBC reasonably 
identified at the time  which seems likely to have been around authorisation only. I dont 
think the payment was unusual enough for HSBC to have suspected that Mr S could be 
falling victim to a scam. It was a single overseas payment. I dont find that HSBC needed to 
do more than simply check whether Mr S authorised the payment.
In relation to the second payment which appears to have gone to a new beneficiary, this was 
made more than a month after the initial payment. I have seen a note recorded on 8 April 
2013 that said Mr S processed a payment to Montenegro but included the incorrect 
beneficiary name, so he cancelled the payment and confirmed he would redo it online. Given 
that Mr S had already sent £4,000 overseas via wire transfer, I dont think HSBC should 
have reasonably had concerns that Mr S was at risk of financial harm from fraud. The 
payment was made quite some time after the first payment and didnt appear to indicate a pressure to pay quickly. The contact notes at the time suggest that Mr S called HSBC to 
cancel the payment rather than HSBC calling him to check that it was authorised. But even if 
HSBC had carried out an authorisation check, I think it would have been proportionate to the 
risk it may have reasonably identified at the time. I dont think HSBC ought to have probed 
more about the payment or to have reasonably suspected fraud or a scam and clearly Mr S 
was aware of the destination of the payment.  
In relation to the third payment of £80,245.31, this payment was made in branch and 
therefore there was an opportunity for HSBC to ask some questions. In any event, given the 
size and nature of the payment instruction here (overseas payment for an investment 
opportunity), I think the payment would have appeared unusual and uncharacteristic for 
most customers. Such that in branch HSBC could have questioned Mr S to an appropriate 
level designed to disturb or unearth a potential fraud and establish whether or not he was at 
risk of financial harm. Mr S says HSBC didnt ask him any questions and HSBC hasnt 
provided any evidence that would suggest it asked any questions about the transaction. I 
conclude it was a missed opportunity to intervene. 
The 2012 paper noted UK consumers lose over £500 million every year to share sales 
frauds and other scams including, but not limited to, land-banking frauds, unauthorised 
collective investment schemes and Ponzi schemes. I therefore think HSBC ought to have 
been reasonably aware of common types of investment scams in 2013. And I am satisfied 
that a bank acting fairly and reasonably  in line with the due-diligence, anti-money-
laundering (etc) standards outlined above  would have been concerned by the size of the 
payment and that Mr S was making an investment; it would have had enough to assess 
whether Mr S was reasonably at risk of financial harm.
Ive reviewed Mr S paperwork with S and I can see he was investing in commodities. By his 
own admission, he wasnt under pressure to pay immediately and the pattern of the 
payments is indicative of this as there was sufficient time and space between each of them. 
This suggests to me that Mr S would have had enough time to think about making such a 
substantial payment by the time of his June 2013 payment (given that his first payment was 
in February 2013). 
I dont think HSBC would have been immediately concerned that Mr S had fallen victim to a 
scam as it wasnt a type of investment its regulator (at the material time) had identified as a 
common type of investment fraud. 
I also dont think Mr S made his decision to invest such substantial sums lightly. Its clear 
from his testimony that he carried out his own due diligence checks before parting with his 
money. This was a very sophisticated scam and I dont think HSBC could have reasonably 
uncovered it.
With that being said, I think HSBC could have asked probing questions about how Mr S had 
come about the investment opportunity and what checks hed carried out himself. I think at 
the point of this payment, Mr S was confident in his decision to invest this large sum of 
money. He would have likely explained his broker (S representative) had introduced the 
investment to him. Hed likely also have explained that he carried out his due diligence and 
checked S company records and saw they were registered abroad. I think hed have likely 
explained that hed been investing with S for some time and that he had investment 
experience. I dont think any of what Mr S would likely have explained at the time would 
have given HSBC any concern that he could be falling victim to a scam. By this time and by 
Mr S own admission, he was completely bought into the investment and had built a bond 
with S representative. There were no credible adverse warnings about S at the material time 
and so I dont think HSBC would reasonably have had grounds to suspect Mr S was at risk 
of financial harm. I also dont see anything that would suggest HSBC ought to have been concerned with the beneficiary the funds were going to. The notes recorded in April 2013 
indicate that Mr S knew the country the payments were going to and Ive noted payments 
two and three went to the same place. This doesnt suggest that the scammers misled Mr S 
about where the funds would be sent. And so I dont think either party would have had any 
reasonable concerns that Mr S could have been falling victim to a scam at the time.
In other words, I dont think HSBC could have reasonably prevented Mr S loss. 
Recovery
Ive seen that HSBC sent requests to the beneficiary banks to try to recover Mr S payments 
in August 2013. HSBC probably could have contacted the beneficiary banks sooner as Mr S 
reported the scam in July 2013. But I dont think this would have made a difference. I say 
this because the notes recorded at the time indicate that a beneficiary bank responded to 
HSBC advising all funds had been removed from the account by 12 June 2013 (i.e. prior to 
Mr S reporting the scam to HSBC). 
I therefore dont think HSBC could have recovered any of Mr S loss. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S. And I dont doubt the impact 
such a substantial loss would have had on him. But I dont find that HSBC were responsible 
for that loss. 
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC replied confirming it had nothing further to add. 
Mr S replied, he said in summary:
His understanding is that a regulated bank is required to have standard procedures 
in place that protect its customers. 
His understanding about HSBC after learning he was scammed was that it did not 
have such standards in place.
The scammer provided him with his professional profile in order to convince him that 
he possessed the relevant experience to be a hedge fund manager, which he knew 
would be the crucial qualification if he was going to trust him to invest and trade with 
his funds. 
It was clear from the profile that HSBC was his previous long-term employer, ending 
two years earlier, therefore as part of his due diligence and before he invested any 
funds, he contacted HSBC to verify if the scammer was employed by it. But HSBC 
didnt respond and he was left to consider that perhaps HSBC doesnt disclose 
employee details  which was HSBCs first missed opportunity to intervene. 
There was a gap between his first transfers and the large transfer because his 
£80,000 was tied up in a five-year savings account, which the scammer knew of and 
was patiently waiting. 
If HSBC had asked general questions in the branch, hed have volunteered that the 
scammer said he was employed by HSBC up until 2011 which HSBC could have 
checked. 
Usually large payments are rounded up, so his payment should have been unusual 
to HSBC. 
If HSBC had replied to his request for the scammers employment history 
confirmation, he would not have sent any of the payments in dispute. The scammer presented as an educated person and would have surely known that 
he would have checked to verify his work history. 
A journalist provided an example of HSBC having negative involvement in 2012 as 
hes described. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I know this will be disappointing for Mr S but I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Ill explain why.
I explained in my provisional decision (that forms part of this final decision) why I felt HSBC 
checking the first payment in dispute was authorised was proportionate to any risk it may 
have identified. I also explained why I didnt think HSBC ought to have reasonably been 
concerned with the second payment. I finally explained why I dont think any meaningful 
intervention in relation to the third payment would have made a difference to Mr S decision 
to send this payment. My rationale against all three payments are unchanged for the 
reasons Ive already explained. 
But I have considered whether I think Mr S saying that he queried the brokers employment 
with HSBC makes a material difference and I dont think it does. Ive not seen any evidence 
that Mr S got in touch with HSBC prior to sending any of his payments. But even if I accept 
this is what happened, Mr S says he interacted with HSBC for all three disputed payments. 
But he says that all HSBC sought to do was confirm the payments were authorised. Mr S 
hasnt expressed that he questioned HSBC on any of the occasions it intervened, even 
though he did not receive a response to his contact seeking to confirm his brokers job 
history. If this information was as important as Mr S describes, I think hed have taken any of 
those opportunities to question this with HSBC but I dont see that he did. 
In my judgement, this was a very sophisticated scam and I think it would have taken a lot for 
Mr S to believe in S and the brokers legitimacy. According to Mr S testimony, he carried out 
his own checks and was satisfied with what he was being told (in absence of receiving any 
confirmation from HSBC). I think if he had any concerns about the legitimacy of the 
investment, I dont think he would have sent any money. 
But even if HSBC had used the branch opportunity to ask questions (as Ive concluded it 
reasonably should have) I dont think it would have had concerns if Mr S had disclosed that 
his broker used to work for HSBC. By the time Mr S made his third payment, hed already 
built a relationship with the scammer over several months and must have been happy with 
the performance of his earlier payments to invest such substantial sums. I appreciate Mr S 
has said he was waiting for his existing savings to mature, which is why there was a gap 
between his payments but my point remains. I dont think hed have invested such 
substantial sums if he wasnt bought into the scam. 
Had Mr S questioned the brokers employment history with HSBC when he was in branch, I 
dont think HSBC would likely have disclosed any information to him for confidentiality 
reasons. So I think Mr S would have been in the same position and unable to verify his 
brokers employment history. He would have had to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to invest and I think hed likely have invested. I say this because he did in 
absence of receiving verification of the brokers employment history. 
The pounds and pence involved in the third transaction doesnt alter my view that it was a 
substantial sum of money and HSBC should have reasonably questioned it. Mr S had carried out his own due diligence checks prior to investing with S. There was no credible 
adverse warnings about S at the material time and so I dont think HSBC would reasonably 
have had grounds to suspect Mr S was at risk of financial harm. Payment three went to the 
same place as payment two (which was sent several months earlier without any reported 
concerns from Mr S). I dont think HSBC or Mr S would have had any reasonable concerns 
that Mr S could have been falling victim to a scam at the time.
In other words, I dont think HSBC could have prevented Mr S loss. Nor do I think it could 
have recovered it for the reasons Ive already explained. 
I want to be very clear that by no means do I blame Mr S for what happened. He was the 
innocent victim of a scam. The cruel scammers are to blame. But I cant hold HSBC 
responsible for the losses he suffered if I dont fairly think it could have identified that he was 
the victim of a scam.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr S loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman