DRN-4331656
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Wilmot Lynne & Co to transfer the 
benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with a former employer to 
a buyout bond  also referred to as a Section 32 policy  and a personal pension (PP). 
What happened
In or around June 2005, Mr H approached Wilmot Lynne & Co to explore accessing his 
pension. The call notes from the time say that Mr H wanted to free up as much cash as 
possible to enjoy now and use as he saw fit, and that he had three other pensions which 
would provide the majority of his retirement income, alongside his wifes significant pension. 
On 5 June 2005, a questionnaire was completed to gather information about Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives, including an assessment of his attitude to risk. It was noted 
that Mr H was aged 50, employed and married, with one dependent child. And that Mr H 
aimed to stop working around age 63. It said Mr H owned his property, worth around 
£90,000 with an outstanding mortgage of around £20,000, that he had savings around 
£3,000 and a disposable income left at the end of each month of around £300. It also said 
Mr H was making contributions to another pension, which hed been doing for four years. 
Mr H said on the questionnaire that he was cautious and typically not willing to take any 
unnecessary risks with these pension savings. Under reasons for needing to access his 
pension now and raise funds, Mr H said he had three other pensions and his family were 
well covered in the event of his death. And when asked how much cash and income was 
needed he respectively said not known and n/a. He later went on to say, for example, that 
he was aware and concerned his retirement income would be reduced, but felt he had no 
other realistic choice and that he had significant other sources of income for this, so this 
pension wasnt important to him.  
Later that month, Wilmot Lynne & Co provided Mr H with advice in respect of his DB 
scheme, which was projected to pay a yearly pension of £3,438.62 from his normal 
retirement age (NRA) of 65 and had a transfer value of £15,236.90. It advised Mr H to 
transfer his DB pension benefits to a buyout bond to take a lump sum of £7,947 and an 
annuity that would pay him £70 per year, with £3,282.99 of Mr Hs protected rights also 
being transferred to a PP. The suitability report said it recommended the buyout bond as this 
gave Mr H the most cash, alongside a guaranteed yearly income so he didnt have to worry 
about investment risk. Mr H accepted Wilmot Lynne & Cos advice and, shortly after he took 
a lump sum and an income from the buyout bond.   
After Mr H complained to Wilmot Lynne & Co about its transfer advice at the end of          
May 2022, it sent him its final response letter. It said, in summary, that the transfer allowed 
Mr H to access a lump sum when it couldnt confirm if he was entitled to an early retirement 
lump sum from his DB scheme. And that it told Mr H this would mean a 90% income 
reduction than hed otherwise receive from this pension at age 65, amounting to around 
£126 per month after tax, along with reduced spousal benefits. So it said Mr H was aware of 
the consequences of transferring when he was given the advice, which he confirmed he 
understood in writing. And that this meant Mr H had made his complaint too late.    
In November 2022, Mr H brought his complaint to our Service. And Wilmot Lynne & Co 
maintained it had been made too late, referring to the Limitation Act 1980 (LA 1980). It said 
Mr H complained more than six years after the advice and that he ought reasonably to have 
been aware he had cause to complain at the time, as the suitability letter detailed the 
reduction in benefits the transfer would result in, which Mr H acknowledged he understood. 
Mr H added, in summary, that Wilmot Lynne & Co ought to have started from the position 
that the transfer was unsuitable, but there was little attempt to dissuade him. He said it 
explained away its negative comments, telling him to transfer anyway, on the basis their 
other policies would provide an income large enough to cover the losses from this. But it did 
so without looking into details of these to verify this, reassuring him based on assumptions. 
Mr H said this led him to believe he would still have enough to live comfortably in retirement. 
Mr H also said he didnt require a lump sum and, even if he had, Wilmot Lynne & Co didnt 
consider alternatives such as a loan or taking benefits from his PP. 
Mr H said he became concerned that Wilmot Lynne & Cos assertion that hed be alright with 
his other pensions was inaccurate when he reached state pension age in 2021, particularly 
when talking to colleagues whod received more or had been incorrectly encouraged to 
transfer. Mr H said he approached his representative in April 2021 before raising his 
complaint with Wilmot Lynne & Co on 30 May 2022.  
 
One of our Investigators explained the rules our Service is bound by and why we can 
consider Mr Hs complaint. She also said the transfer wasnt financially viable. And that 
Wilmot Lynne & Co hadnt shown it fully explored Mr Hs circumstances and needs, or that it 
considered alternatives. She said that if Wilmot Lynne & Co had advised Mr H against the 
transfer its likely hed have listened to its expert advice and remained in his DB scheme. 
Wilmot Lynne & Co didnt agree. It said Mr Hs complaint was prompted by colleagues rather 
than because he had a legitimate reason to complain and that there wasnt any new 
information in 2021 to make him aware he had cause to do so. It said Mr Hs complaint is 
based on the fact its warning that his pension would be reduced in retirement turned out to 
be correct and that its likely to be speculative, frivolous and vexatious. Wilmot Lynne & Co 
also said an Ombudsman previously decided that a complaint with similar circumstances 
was out of time. And it referred to the time limits in Section 14A of the LA 1980, which it said 
Dispute Resolution Rule 2.8.2R is almost identical to. As well as a case that the courts said 
was time barred based on the LA 1980, that it thinks had similar facts to Mr Hs. Wilmot 
Lynne & Co also said Mr H didnt communicate his complaint to it, but came directly to our 
Service in January 2023. 
 
Wilmot Lynne & Co added, in summary, that as Mr H asked it to recommend the best way to 
gain access to his DB scheme to obtain a lump sum, but declined to participate in a general 
review, the scope of its advice was limited  which caselaw and the Financial Conduct 
Authority allow for  to advising him on how to achieve that and nothing else. And it gave 
suitable advice in light of this mandate. Wilmot Lynne & Co said that had it been asked to 
give a recommendation that would improve Mr Hs retirement income, which he didnt want, 
it would have advised him to do nothing. And that our Service cant say it failed to do 
something with reasonable care that Mr H didnt want it to do. 
Wilmot Lynne & Co said the FCA doesnt prevent consumers from choosing what type of 
advice to receive, probably because of the general principle in Section 1C(2)(d) of Chapter 1 
of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 that consumers should take responsibility for 
their decisions. Wilmot Lynne & Co said it was for Mr H to assess what was in his best 
interests, having been fully informed and made aware of the consequences of transferring. And that it wasnt for it to decide if transferring was in his best interests, given the relatively 
small values being considered. 
 
Wilmot Lynne & Co said Mr H had years to make other provision to fund the pension shortfall 
after satisfying his need for cash through the transfer. It said Mr H had £300 per month 
disposable income to re-build reserves if needed. And that while no specific need for a lump 
sum was indicated, it assumed that if Mr H didnt transfer to access this then he would 
borrow it, costing more. Wilmot Lynne & Co said that as Mr H had other bigger pensions  
which it said was a significant consideration for it in proceeding with the transfer  the 
implication was this DB scheme was surplus to requirements. And that it is factually correct 
that the smallest pension  which it understood this DB scheme to be  must have the 
smallest impact on Mr Hs retirement provision. Wilmot Lynne & Co also said that any 
redress should take into account the likely reduction in Mr Hs mortgage from the lump sum, 
as well as his enjoyment of the income he received over the years.
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
The rules our Service is bound by, known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules  found in
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook  say in DISP 2.8.2R that, unless the business
consents (Wilmot Lynne & Co hasnt), we cant consider a complaint if its referred to us:
More than six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
more than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) they had cause for complaint.
That is, unless the complainant referred the complaint to the business or our Service within 
that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of this having been 
received. 
Wilmot Lynne & Co has referred to the LA 1980 and Shore v Sedgwick Financial Services 
Limited. But the rules under which this Service operates and which determine what 
complaints I can and cant consider are the DISP rules. And this means that I have to 
consider DISP 2.8.2R in deciding if a complaint has been made in time. 
The event complained of  the advice Mr H was given to transfer his DB scheme to a PP, 
which he says resulted in a loss  took place in 2005. And, as he didnt raise this with  
Wilmot Lynne & Co and then our Service until 2022, it has been referred to us more than six 
years after the event occurred. This means I have to decide if Mr H was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware, he had cause for complaint more than three years before 
he complained to Wilmot Lynne & Co.   
Wilmot Lynne & Co said Mr H ought to have been aware he had cause for complaint from 
2005, as he was fully aware of the consequences of transferring at the time, which he 
confirmed in writing. And that our Service previously decided that another complaint with 
similar circumstances to Mr Hs was out of time. 
While Ive taken this into account, Im considering the circumstances individual to Mr Hs 
particular complaint. And I wouldnt reasonably expect Mr H to have had cause for concern that something might have gone wrong at the time of the advice. He had no reason to think 
there was a problem with this, considering hed just been given it by a professional adviser 
and was relying in it. 
I appreciate Mr H was told that, for example, the transfer would result in a fall in income at 
retirement. But I think the crux of Mr Hs complaint is that Lynne Wilmot & Co encouraged 
and justified the transfer still on the basis his other pension provision would leave him with 
enough, as he was told his retirement wouldnt be significantly impacted as he still had 
significant provision for this. And I dont think Mr H would have had reason to question this 
until closer to his retirement when he looked at his overall provision  which included five 
pensions  against what he now reasonably anticipated hed need to live on, and then 
considered this against the position he would have otherwise been in.    
Mr Hs DB scheme benefits was transferred to two new pensions. And, as well as taking a 
lump sum  which Mr Hs DB statement didnt allow for  from the buyout bond, Mr H also 
took an annuity from this almost immediately at age 50. But his DB scheme benefits were 
projected to the NRA of 65 on his statement. And Mr H didnt take benefits from the PP he 
transferred to until age 64. So, while I appreciate Mr H received PP statements with 
illustrations, as time went on I dont think it was easy for him to compare the statement of DB 
scheme benefits hed given up at retirement to the position he was in, to know whether 
something might have gone wrong with the advice, particularly as he doesnt have expert 
knowledge. 
I can see that in September 2019 Mr H started to enquire about taking the benefits from the 
PP he transferred to, which he went on to do in small pots in mid-October 2019 just before 
turning 65. It appears the NRA for Mr Hs remaining DB scheme was 65, which was in early 
2020. And that his state pension age was in early 2021. So I think Mr H would have known 
what his overall retirement provision would have been by early 2021 to be able to compare 
this to the position he would have been in if he hadnt transferred from his DB scheme. As 
this was less than hed have been entitled to, I think its only at that point that he ought 
reasonably to have been aware something might have gone wrong with Wilmot Lynne & 
Cos advice. This coincides with when Mr H said he became aware he had cause for 
complaint  hes said this was when he was looking into retiring and his state pension. And 
Mr H referred his complaint to Wilmot Lynne & Co and then our Service within three years of 
early 2021.
Even if I were to say Mr H ought reasonably to have become aware he had cause for 
complaint from when he first started to look at his retirement provision in September 2019, it 
seems Mr H referred his complaint to Wilmot Lynne & Co within three years of that, at the 
end of May 2022. I note Wilmot Lynne & Co recently said Mr H came directly to our Service 
on 12 January 2023 rather than communicating his complaint to it. But Mr H brought his 
complaint to our Service in mid-November 2022 and he enclosed a copy of the final 
response letter hed received from Wilmot Lynne & Co, showing it did receive his complaint. 
In summary, for the reasons given, I think we can consider Mr Hs complaint because he 
made it within three years of when he ought reasonably to have become aware he had 
cause for complaint.
The advice
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of Mr Hs 
particular complaint, Im required to take into account relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what    
I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators 
Conduct of Business (COB) rules.Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the Investigator. 
Under COB 5.3.29A(4), the regulator expected a prospective investor to receive 
sufficient, clear information to make an informed investment decision based on a firm 
understanding of the risks involved and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations 
and options they may be giving up. 
It also expected at least one illustration for the PP/Section-32 plan to be given on a similar 
basis to the DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in payment were shown.
Also, a reason why letter or equivalent had to be issued as soon as practicable after the 
recommendation, which should:
explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit account of the 
alternative of remaining within the occupational scheme
demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, objectives and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by the firm.
Furthermore, COB 5.3.29G (renumbered to COBS 19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook) 
specified the information Wilmot Lynne & Co should gather from the consumer and the DB 
scheme in order to assess suitability. Importantly it also said that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Wilmot Lynne & Co doesnt appear to have suggested the transfer was likely to result in 
higher retirement benefits for Mr H, rather it said it was suitable for him to meet his other 
objectives. And the suitability report said the critical yield at 11% was unlikely to be 
achieved. So I think this meant Mr H was unlikely to be able to replicate or exceed the DB 
benefits available to him by transferring, and that he would he worse off in retirement as a 
result. Looking at whether it was right for Wilmot Lynne & Co to recommend the transfer in 
spite of this for other reasons, it appears to have done so on the basis Mr H wanted access 
to the benefits to enjoy and use as he saw fit. And because, while there was no real financial 
need, it thought that transferring the benefits for this reason wouldnt significantly impact on 
Mr Hs retirement provision in light of his other pensions. 
Turning firstly to Mr Hs other retirement provision, the notes Wilmot Lynne & Co made on its 
compliance check document at the time said it considered doing the transfer on an insistent 
client basis. However, it decided against this as there was significant evidence, in the fact 
find and phone call it had with Mr H, that other bigger pensions existed and this DB scheme 
pension was small. And it said it needed to make an appropriate comment about this in the 
suitability report. Wilmot Lynne & Co then said in the suitability report that it appeared from 
conversations with Mr H that this was the smallest of his three pensions, so taking benefits 
early wouldnt significantly impact his retirement planning. And that while comparing the 
results of the transfer to what would otherwise happen was more difficult because of Mr Hs 
other pensions, which hed asked it not to look at, these would significantly reduce the 
negative effect of the loss of income from the transfer. The fact find and phone call notes only reflect that Mr H told Wilmot Lynne & Co he had 
other significant provision though, without any details of the types and respective sizes of his 
pensions. I appreciate this might have briefly been discussed given its mentioned in the 
suitability report that this should amount to around £2,000 per month, but that took into 
account Mr Hs state pension which wasnt performance dependent. So I dont think Wilmot 
Lynne & Co could reasonably say it had significant evidence Mr H had bigger pensions that 
would significantly reduce the impact of the transfer on his retirement provision in the way it 
did. Mr H was also 15 years from retirement, he was still working and theres nothing to 
suggest he had concrete retirement plans. So I think it would have been hard to know what 
he might want and need at that time for Wilmot Lynne & Co to reasonably reach this 
conclusion about his retirement. 
I recognise its noted that Mr H asked Wilmot Lynne & Co not to consider his other pensions 
for it to be able to accurately plot his retirement income streams. And Wilmot Lynne & Co 
referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said considered 
the scope of duty of advisers. This concerned the extent of an advisers responsibility to 
review historical advice given by another firm though. And Wilmot Lynne & Cos regulatory 
obligation was to interrogate Mr Hs needs and circumstances and consider his alternatives. 
I dont think Wilmot Lynne & Co could provide Mr H with suitable advice on this DB scheme 
in the circumstances without understanding more about his other pension provision. And had 
it explained it couldnt clearly demonstrate the transfer was in Mr Hs best interests without 
this information in the way I think it should have, then I think hes likely to have provided it 
given hed sought advice from this professional adviser. Theres nothing to suggest Mr H 
couldnt afford the further fees that might have been involved in this. Mr H told us he had 
another DB scheme which only provided slightly higher benefits, as well as a PP worth far 
less. So, comparatively, the benefits Mr H had in this DB scheme were significant for his 
retirement provision. Had Wilmot Lynne & Co sought the information it needed then Im 
satisfied it would likely have found this out. And, even if Mr Hs other schemes were 
sufficient, Mr H would still be worse off in retirement due to loss of valuable guaranteed 
benefits, when he had no real need to transfer for reasons Ill come on to. 
Looking at the suitability report, I think Wilmot Lynne & Co placed emphasis on the option of 
Mr H transferring to access a lump sum rather than starting from the position that this wasnt 
suitable. For example, it detailed the amount of cash he might get in bold text at the top of 
page one and then said Mr H should choose the option that most suits his needs. I recognise 
that later on that page it said in a box that Mr H appeared to have no need to release his 
pension now and it gave the estimated figure his income from this pension would reduce by 
as a result. But I think its unlikely Mr H appreciated the reality of this given Wilmot Lynne & 
Co said at the same time that this reduction ignored his other pensions, which it had already 
said were larger and meant his provision wouldnt be significantly impacted by transferring 
from this DB scheme.
Wilmot Lynne & Co also highlighted on page two of the suitability report in capital letters 
when explaining the advantages and disadvantages of transferring that this meant Mr H 
would receive a lump sum and income from this pension BEFORE his scheme NRA, when 
he otherwise wouldnt be able to do this. And at the start of the financial implications of 
transferring section, it said it was up to Mr H to consider how the transfer would impact his 
circumstances. However, it again emphasised the transfer option with capital letters when it 
said Mr H would receive income from this pension DURING the period up until the original 
retirement dategiving you a FURTHER cash lump sum during that time than hed 
otherwise be able to access. So I think the report was phrased in such a way that it largely 
left it to Mr H to decide which option was most suitable based on his needs and that it led 
him towards transferring to access a lump sum. But as Wilmot Lynne & Co was giving Mr H advice here, I dont think that it treated Mr H fairly or acted in his best interests by setting 
things out in this way. 
As explained, Wilmot Lynne & Cos job was to interrogate Mr Hs needs and circumstances 
and look at his alternative options to decide if the transfer was in his best interests, rather 
than facilitating what he thought he wanted. And to only recommend this if it could clearly 
demonstrate that it was in his best interests based on the available evidence. On the 
questionnaire under reasons for needing to access his pension and raise funds Mr H just 
said that he has three other pensions. And the suitability report noted that Mr H wanted to 
free up as much cash as possible to enjoy and use as he saw fit and that he didnt require a 
specific sum. So Mr H doesnt appear to have had any urgent and genuine need to justify 
transferring to take the lump sum that this would allow for  he didnt even have an idea in 
mind of how much he wanted  but rather a desire to do so. 
While Wilmot Lynne & Co recognised Mr H didnt have a financial need it said, at the end of 
chapter 4 of the suitability report under What weve done with this information to construct a 
solution for you, that it had built up a pot to maximise the lump sum and income available to  
him as a result of transferring. And when it provided Mr H with his available options under 
the heading releasing your pension it said it had chosen the one that gives him most access 
to a lump sum now  being a buyout bond  as this is the most important objective to him. 
So I think its clear that Wilmot Lynne & Co were facilitating what Mr H thought he wanted, 
rather than providing a recommendation that was in his best interests in the way it should 
have. This is supported by Wilmot Lynne & Cos recent comments that it thinks it wasnt for it 
to decide if transferring was in Mr Hs best interests, when in fact the regulations made clear 
that it was expected to do so.
I dont think that Wilmot Lynne & Co suitability considered Mr Hs alternatives. It only set out 
two alternative options to transferring, including a transfer to a PP or waiting to hear back 
from his DB scheme as to whether early retirement from it was a possibility, which it said he 
should do before going ahead. And I cant see that it discussed with Mr H that, for example, 
he had a disposable income of around £300 per month which he could use as he saw fit or 
ways to maximise this further. Theres nothing to suggest it sought a breakdown of Mr Hs 
current income and expenditure to consider that. It didnt explore the option of Mr H taking 
benefits from his PP either, when he said on the fact find that hed been paying into this for 
four years. And Wilmot Lynne & Co didnt set out Mr H leaving his benefits where they were 
as an option or that this was in his best interests. 
Wilmot Lynne & Co recently said Mr H had years to make other arrangements to fund the 
pension shortfall after satisfying his immediate need for cash by transferring, it said it 
assessed that he had time to do that but no time to satisfy his immediate need. And that    
Mr H had £300 per month disposable income to re-build his pension reserves if needed.        
I cant see from the information that Wilmot Lynne & Co discussed with Mr H that he could 
use his disposable income to re-build his pension though. And, in any case, Mr H could have 
used his existing disposable income for enjoyment, rather than transferring his pension to 
access a lump sum and then reinvesting his disposable income.
I recognise that the declaration Mr H signed said, for example, that he agreed that where 
Wilmot Lynne & Co may have indicated the transfer isnt in his best interest to proceed, he 
still wished to do so and accepted that it isnt responsible for his actions. But asking Mr H to 
sign to say he understood the risks doesnt make unsuitable advice suitable. And Wilmot 
Lynne & Co needed to do more than just indicate whether or not the transfer may have been 
in Mr Hs best interests. It needed to clearly demonstrate this to Mr H, who was coming to it 
for its professional opinion. While Wilmot Lynne & Co set out the reduced benefits Mr H 
would receive in numerical terms, at no stage did it clearly say this wasnt in his best 
interests when I think it should have for the above reasons. Particularly when considering the transfer wasnt financial viable, there wasnt a financial need for Mr H to do this, he had 
reasonable alternatives and there was a lack of information about his full circumstances for 
Wilmot Lynne & Co to consider if hed still be ok in retirement in light of his other provision. 
So there doesnt seem to have been any genuine need for Mr H to transfer to a PP. And       
I dont think Mr H wanted to take a large amount of risk or that he had the capacity to do so. 
Not least because he said in the risk questionnaire that he was cautious and typically not 
willing to take any unnecessary risks with these pension savings. And Mr H didnt have 
investment experience or much in savings outside of his pension. So I think its unlikely Mr H 
wouldve given up the guaranteed benefits his DB scheme offered if Wilmot Lynne & Co had 
advised him to remain in it.
Overall, I dont think it was suitable advice for Wilmot Lynne & Co to recommend Mr H 
transfer his DB benefits to a PP. For the above reasons, I think the alternative options Ive 
detailed above would have allowed Mr H to free up further income to use and enjoy as he 
saw fit and been in his best interests. So, on balance, I think Wilmot Lynne & Co shouldve 
advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.  
Summary
I dont doubt that transferring to access a lump sum would have sounded attractive to Mr H. 
But Wilmot Lynne & Co wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he 
wanted. Its role was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was likely to obtain
lower retirement benefits and I dont think it was in his best interests. As Ive said above,
I think suitable advice in Mr Hs circumstances wouldve been to remain in his DB scheme. 
Im not persuaded Mr H wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme anyway, 
against Wilmot Lynne & Cos advice. Whilst Mr H approached Wilmot Lynne & Co, he was 
an inexperienced investor with a cautious risk profile and this pension accounted for a 
significant proportion of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Wilmot Lynne & Co had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests and how he could instead look to free up further income for daily 
enjoyment, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. 
While Wilmot Lynne & Co said redress should take into account the likely reduction in Mr Hs 
mortgage from the lump sum, as well as his enjoyment of the income he received over the 
years. I recognise Mr H may have benefitted from flexibility, but that has only arisen because 
of the unsuitable advice. And in any event, the redress calculation Im requiring Wilmot 
Lynne & Co to undertake takes account of the amount Mr H received as a result of 
transferring. So Wilmot Lynne & Co should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely remained in the DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Wilmot Lynne & Co must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, while Mr H took a lump sum and an annuity from the buyout bond in 2005, the 
income was small and he continued to work. So I dont think Mr H was reliant on his funds 
for a retirement income at that point. Mr H started to retire from his other schemes from 
around October 2019, just before he turned 65. So I think that redress should be based on 
his DB schemes NRA of 65. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Wilmot Lynne & Co should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Wilmot Lynne & Cos offer to calculate how much of their redress 
could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Wilmot Lynne 
& Co may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
Mr H would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Hs likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Wilmot Lynne & Co to 
pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Wilmot Lynne & Co pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Wilmot Lynne & Co.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely Mr H can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman