DRN-3031266
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card. I see Mr G originally had a credit card account, with PPI attached, from 2001 to 2008. 
His complaint about this account has previously been resolved.
To be clear therefore, this final decision is about a second PPI policy, one Mr G took out in 
September 2008 when re-arranging his account. He says this PPI was also mis-sold to him.
We also know that Mr Gs account would have been under the EGG brand. But as Barclays 
Bank UK PLC is now responsible for these accounts, Ill refer mainly to Barclays to keep 
things consistent.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
Barclayss subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me in order to 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Gs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided Barclays should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Barclays says its records show the PPI was sold to Mr G over the internet and this reflects 
Mr Gs recollection. Barclays sent us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks Mr 
G would have used during the online credit card application back in 2008. It says he would 
have been presented with a yes / no choice about having PPI with his new card. It says he 
would have had to choose one of the two options to be able to continue his way through to 
the next stage of the application and that he must have chosen the yes option on the 
screen for PPI to be added.
Theres no dispute Mr G was sold PPI. So I think hed have selected the yes option and 
then also started to see the PPI charges appearing on his monthly statements over quite a 
long period of time. I also think he would have been sent a welcome letter explaining the 
PPI because Ive seen other very similar cases where this was done. 
So, on this basis I think its much more likely Mr G asked for the cover to be added and 
would have been able to see it was optional. I think if he hadnt agreed, he would have 
wanted to know what the letter was for and why the charges were occurring. On balance, I 
think he probably agreed to the PPI. 
This wasnt an advised sale and so it was for Mr G to decide for himself what he wanted to 
do. Barclays had a responsibility to provide clear information to allow him to make that 
decision. Its certainly possible Barclays could have explained the policy in more detail than it 
did, although I can see there were some links about the price and other key features of the 
PPI. So I think Mr G probably had enough information to decide what he wanted to do. Even 
if I accept more could have been done by Barclays, I dont think this makes any difference to 
my decision.
This is because I think Mr G was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Mr G said he had no sick pay with his 
work and he didnt have any other obvious means in the event of him being out of work. The 
cost of the cover, at 79p per £100 of the outstanding monthly card balance, seems 
affordable for him and the PPI would have paid off 10% of his outstanding credit card 
balance each month for up to a year if hed needed to claim. There was nothing about Mr 
Gs employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for him to claim and he 
hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that would have affected his ability 
to successfully claim.
I note there were some rules around claiming for certain conditions, in particular mental 
health and back problems and Ive though very carefully about whether this would have 
mattered to Mr G. His representative said hes suffered from stress, but they gave no details 
about this, or indeed, any evidence. Ive also taken account that this episode does appear to 
have pre-dated the sale by some 5 years. So, although no doubt of concern to Mr G at the 
time, Ive seen nothing that shows Mr G might have considered this something that would 
have changed what he went on to do  i.e. buy the policy. And I dont think Mr G would have 
thought that providing evidence of stress related illness, for example, was unreasonable 
when making a claim, as that is what the rules required. 
Therefore, having considered this issue with care, Im afraid it doesnt change what I think. 
The policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr G and the evidence is powerful that he wanted 
to have this type of protection on his card account.
Mr Gs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Gs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Barclayss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Barclays didnt tell Mr G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Mr G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Barclays didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr G should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: Barclays failed to tell Mr G about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr G wouldnt 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshiphave taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid. But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level 
of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Barclayss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr G paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr G with the policy Ive concluded above he 
would still have taken out if Barclays had done everything it should have done  but with 
lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Barclayss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Gs 
complaint or make any award in favour of him for this part of the complaint.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr G an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
My understanding is this payment has already been made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman