DRN-3603649
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) gave him an incorrect figure when he voluntarily terminated (VT) the hire 
purchase agreement he had with them. 
What happened
On 29 April 2019 Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £2,851 and the agreement was for £32,555 over 49 
months; with 48 monthly payments of £470.78 and a final payment of £19,878.75 if he 
wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
Mr S was moving overseas, and, in November 2021, he contacted VWFS to ask about VT. 
VWFS told him that, apart from any damage or excess mileage charges, he had nothing 
more to pay. They also provided him with a settlement quote if he wanted to keep the car or 
sell it privately. Mr S VTd the agreement and was charged £2,081.64 for damages to the car 
and for exceeding the allowable mileage. He was also charged a £5,695.99 VT shortfall. 
VWFS have subsequently waived the excess mileage charge.
Mr S complained to VWFS. And they acknowledged theyd given him incorrect information 
when he asked about any VT costs. VWFS apologised for this and offered him £150 for any 
inconvenience caused. Mr S wasnt happy with this response and said he wouldve made 
alternative arrangements if hed been given the correct information at the outset. And he 
thought VWFS should waive the shortfall. So, he brought his complaint to the financial 
ombudsman service for investigation.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that Mr S had been given incorrect information. And 
she had no reason to doubt that, if hed been given the correct information, he mayve done 
something differently. However, she thought the agreement Mr S had signed was clear in 
how much needed to be paid for VT, and had VWFS told him the correct amount, it wouldve 
needed to be paid. So, she didnt think it was fair to ask VWFS to waive the shortfall.
But she did think that Mr S had been inconvenienced by whatd happened, and he now 
needs to arrange to pay the shortfall. So, the investigator recommended that VWFS increase 
the compensation from £150 to £400 to reflect this.
VWFS agreed with the investigator, but Mr S didnt. He didnt think all the facts had been 
taken into consideration, and VWFS had told him twice that there was no VT charge. Which 
he felt was reasonable for him to rely on. And he said that, had they not done this, he 
wouldve tried to sell the car privately which wouldve recouped some or all of the VT 
charge. So, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent disputed. And VWFS acknowledge they gave Mr S 
incorrect information about the VT shortfall. And Mr S relied on this to decide what course of 
action to take. Given this, I dont intend to repeat the facts or circumstances involved in this 
complaint. Instead, my decision will focus on what VWFS need to do to put things right.
Putting things right
position they wouldve been had things not gone wrong. However, thats not always possible, 
as is the case here  the car has already been disposed of by VWFS, so it cant be returned 
to Mr S to give him the opportunity to sell it privately. As such, Ill consider the impact this 
has had on Mr S.
Mr S has said that, if hed been told that there was a VT shortfall, he wouldve considered his 
options. And I dont doubt this was the case. But, as he was relocating abroad, keeping the 
car and maintaining payments until there was no VT shortfall wasnt an option.
Mr S has also said that he wouldve tried to sell the car privately, for an amount that wouldve 
cleared all, or almost all, of the settlement figure. However, hes also said that time was tight 
as he was relocating overseas, so he took the easiest and quickest option, which was VT.
Ive no doubt that Mr S couldve tried to sell the car under these circumstances. And hes 
said that similar age cars, with similar mileage, were being advertised for more than the 
settlement figure being quoted by VWFS. 
But these are advertised prices, and not achieved prices. And Ive seen nothing to show me 
Mr S wouldve achieved the sale price he needed for the car, within the limited timeframe he 
had available to him. As such, I cant say that, had Mr S been given the correct information 
about VT, that he wouldnt have had to hand the car back with no shortfall to pay. 
Whats more, if VWFS had misinformed Mr S that the VT shortfall was (for example) 
£10,000, instead of the around £5,000 it was, and Mr S paid this; Id expect VWFS to 
reimburse the additional amount Mr S paid, as its unfair that he pay an amount different to 
what the agreement meant he was required to pay. As such, the same logic would apply to if 
Mr S paid less than was required  hed need to pay the additional amount to bring the 
payment to what the agreement required him to pay.
Because of this, Im in agreement with the investigator that its not fair for VWFS to waive the 
VT shortfall.
But this isnt to say that Mr S hasnt been inconvenienced by this matter. And it wouldve 
come as a shock to him to find out there was a VT shortfall when none was expected. The 
investigator has recommended VWFS pay Mr S a total of £400 compensation for this, and 
VWFS have agreed. Had this recommendation not been made, I wouldnt have directed an 
amount in excess of £400 given all the circumstances. As such, I intend to adopt this 
recommendation as part of my final decision.So, VWFS should increase the compensation they pay to Mr S from £150 to £400. And they 
should arrange a mutually agreeable payment plan with Mr S for the shortfall amount he 
owes.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman