DRN-2951213
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In September 2017 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
VWFS. 
In or around September 2020 Mr G experienced an issue with the air conditioning. He 
booked the car in for a re-gas but this didnt resolve the issue and following a diagnostic test, 
it was found that there was an electrical fault with the air condition compressor which had 
caused the terminal to the compressor from the wiring loom to have melted.
Mr G booked the car in to a VW dealership for further investigations with a  view to having 
the costs of repair met by VW. However, following examination of the car, the VW dealership 
advised Mr G that no contribution towards the cost of repair would be made. 
Mr G complained to VWFS. In response, VWFS said it didnt think it was responsible for the 
cost of repairs because there was no evidence that the fault had been present at the point of 
supply.
Mr G was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
During the investigation by this service, Mr G obtained an independent inspection report. 
The report concluded that the failure of the air conditioning was due to a  manufacturing 
fault.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there was enough evidence to show that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality and asked VWFS to cover the costs of repair. He also said 
VWFS should refund 5% of the instalments paid by Mr G since September 2020 and 
reimburse the cost of the re-gas, the diagnostic report and the inspection. The investigator 
also said VWFS should pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Both Mr G and VWFS accepted the view. Following this, Mr G booked the car in to have the 
fault repaired. However, the VW dealership said it hadnt been authorised to repair the car 
because there was no provision for the repair costs to be met by VWFS.
When this service queried this with VWFS, it said it had actioned the recommendations in 
the view but it was not going to pay for the costs of repair because it had never agreed to 
this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr G and VWFS disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order to 
reach a decision as to whether the car was of satisfactory quality, I need to look at the 
available evidence and determine, on the balance of probabilities, whether the car had an 
inherent fault or whether the fault was caused by wear and tear. In considering satisfactory 
quality, I have regard to fitness for purpose, safety and durability. 
Ive looked at the independent engineers report. Its very clear in its conclusions that there 
has been no previous damage or repairs to the air conditioning component. It found that the 
electrical contacts in the plug which goes into the socket on the compressor control valve to 
be badly eroded. The engineer stated that he considered the life of an air condition 
compressor to be at least 6 years or 150,000 miles and said that the failure was due to a 
manufacturing fault in that a component of the compressor control valve, or a connecting 
plug, was not of satisfactory quality.  The engineer also said that the affected part was not a 
routinely serviceable item, and not a part which would be subjected to general wear and 
tear.
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that this was 
an inherent fault, which rendered the car of unsatisfactory quality. Under the relevant 
legislation, VWFS should be given one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt 
successful, Mr G should be able to reject the car.
Putting things right
VWFS should arrange for repairs to be carried out to the car at no cost to Mr G.
Ive thought about the expenses incurred by Mr G. Hes had to pay for a re-gas of the air 
condition and for a diagnostic test and an inspection. Because Ive found that Mr G was 
supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality, Im of the view that VWFs should 
refund these expenses. 
The fault hasnt rendered the car undriveable. But it has impacted on Mr Gs use of the car, 
so I think its fair to reflect this by asking  VWFS to refund 5% of all payments made by Mr G 
since September 2020 until the fault is repaired.
Finally, its clear that Mr G has been impacted by the fault with the car. Hes had to return the 
car to the garage more than once, which is some distance away, and hes had to take time 
off work to have the independent inspection carried out. Im therefore awarding 
compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services UK Limited 
must:
Arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mr GRefund 5% of all payments made by Mr G since September 2020 and pay 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement (the date of settlement being the 
date when repirs are completed) 
Reimburse Mr G the costs of the re-gas, the diagnostic and the inspection and pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman