DRN-3149338
The complaint
Miss M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost, after she fell victim 
to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, in July 2021, Miss M was looking to purchase some luxury designer 
goods and was interested in a bag and a pair of trainers that she had seen advertised on a 
social media platform.
Miss M has shared a copy of the advert, which shows the trainers priced at £280 and the 
bag priced at £340. On 26 July 2021, Miss M messaged the seller to ask if they would be 
able to do a deal on the items. The seller responded saying that the trainers would be £290 
and the bag £340, but if Miss M wanted both items, they would accept £480.
Miss M responded to the seller and asked if the items were definitely real and whether they 
came with proof they were genuine. The seller explained that they got their stock discounted 
from their supplier, without any VAT. They went on to say all items are 100% authentic and 
the items are shipped with the receipts, so Miss M would be able to see where the items 
were purchased from.
Miss M told the seller that she would take both items for £480. The seller asked Miss M 
whether she was ready to pay, but Miss M responded saying that she was worried that its 
not legit  The seller reassured Miss M that all payments are fully protected. On Miss M 
asking how she could pay, the seller provided bank account details for where the payment 
should be made to.
Before making the payment Miss M asked the seller if there is anyway they could show they 
were genuine. The seller responded saying as soon as Miss M pays, she would have full 
authenticity receipts sent to her. The seller added that the payment wouldnt be in their 
account until Miss M had received the goods and they could prove theyd been received and 
that she had nothing to worry about. The seller also made the offer, if it made Miss M feel 
safer, of accepting an initial payment of £380, with the remaining balance, of £100, to be 
paid once Miss M had received the items.
Miss M responded to the seller explaining it would (make her feel safer), as she said she 
was worried. This was because she said she had bought something before, which turned out 
not to be genuine and she couldnt get her money back. The seller replied to Miss M 
explaining that she had nothing to worry about and also sent Miss M an image of a drivers 
licence, as ID saying they were 100% genuine. The seller asked Miss M to confirm as soon 
as possible if she wanted to buy the items, they said they had somebody else interested in 
the bag, and it was the last one. Believing everything to be genuine Miss M went ahead and 
made a payment for £380 through her mobile banking app.
Shortly after she had sent this payment, the seller contacted her again saying they were 
about to ship the items, but they had been told by their sales manager they couldnt do so, 
without the full payment. So they asked Miss M to send over the remaining £100. Miss M 
went ahead and made the further payment for £100.
When Miss M didnt receive the confirmation email she was expecting, she tried to contact 
the seller, only to find that she had been blocked. Unknown to her at the time she had been 
dealing with a scammer.
Miss M raised the matter with Monzo and it contacted the receiving bank, but it was unable 
to recover any of the money Miss M had sent. Unhappy with this Miss M complained to 
Monzo.
Monzo is not a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to it. This means Monzo has made a 
commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams 
except in limited circumstances. Monzo considered Miss M s complaint under the CRM 
Code and issued its final response on 19 August 2021, not upholding her complaint in 
respect of the money she had lost. In summary, it said Miss M didnt take enough steps to 
check who or what she was paying for. It did however acknowledge the wait times Miss M 
had experienced when raising the matter, and as a gesture of apology credited Miss Ms 
account with a total of £45.
Miss M didnt agree with Monzos findings and so brought her complaint to our service. In 
summary, she said that the seller had over 170,000 followers and she said she had carried 
out some checks, when she expressed some concerns about purchasing this way. She said 
she was reassured when the seller sent her a copy of a drivers licence as ID. She thinks 
Monzo could have done more to help her.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss M bought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, 
she said this because she didnt consider Miss M had met her requisite level of care under 
the CRM code when making the payments. She didnt think Miss M had a reasonable basis 
for believing the payments were for genuine items or that the person she transacted with 
was legitimate. Our investigator thought the price of the items seemed too good to be true 
and that should have led her to being more cautious, she said this especially as Miss M had 
unfortunately been in the position before, where she had purchased goods that didnt turn 
out to be genuine.
Miss M didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, she said that she was 
reassured that this wasnt a scam and the goods were advertised at discounted prices. She 
added that the prices our investigator had indicated the items would cost, were what you 
would pay in a retail store, not an online outlet. She added that she thinks Monzo wasted 
time in trying to get her money back, after she had raised the matter with it.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss M, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Monzos actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfers to 
leave Miss M s account. I also dont think it could have done any more to try and recover the money she sadly lost. So, while I know it will be disappointing for Miss M, having considered 
everything Im not upholding her complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo should have reimbursed Miss M in line with the 
provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect Miss M from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The circumstances where a firm may not choose to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm 
to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code. 
One such circumstance might be when it can be demonstrated that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
Monzo has argued that Miss M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payment she 
was making was for genuine goods or services. 
Ive thought carefully about whether exception(s) to reimbursement applies in Miss Ms case. 
And, on balance, I dont think she has made the payments whilst having a reasonable basis 
for belief that all was genuine. Ill explain why. 
The price of the items being advertised, seemed to be well below what the market value 
appears to be for the luxury brand of bag and trainers Miss M was intending to buy. And I 
can see that the fraudster agreed to a further discount, even against the seemingly already 
very low advertised price. From what Ive seen the market value, for both items, would 
conservatively still be somewhere over £2,000. I dont doubt the offer would have appeared 
enticing, considering how cheap the items were being advertised at (and then further 
discounted), in comparison to what one might typically have expected to pay for them, but 
price can be one indicator that there is potentially something untoward about the seller or the 
proposed deal. And here, where the items are being discounted by in the region of 75%, I 
think this ought to have given cause for Miss M to have questioned in her own mind, whether 
this was too good to be true.
And from seeing the exchange of messages Miss M had with the fraudster, I think its clear 
she did have concerns. From the outset I can see that she has asked the seller whether the 
items were genuine, if she could have proof of their authenticity and expressed that she was 
worried that things might not be legitimate.
Im not persuaded the responses the seller gave Miss M, when she raised her concerns, 
were such that they should have reasonably reassured Miss M that things were genuine. And Im mindful that there were other factors, in the particular circumstances of this case, 
that ought to have caused Miss M to reasonably have had some doubts about what was 
being offered. I say this as;
- the fraudster told Miss M that she would receive confirmation of the authenticity of 
the items, but it seems this would only be provided after the payment was made. 
Whereas I think a legitimate seller is much more likely to have been able to provide 
evidence of authenticity ahead of any payment being made.
- I also dont think its typical for a legitimate seller to agree to accepting partial 
payment, with the remainder on delivery  and I note the seller than reneged on this 
as soon as Miss M had made her initial payment.
- Miss M was told that the payments were guaranteed and that the payment wouldnt 
be with the seller, until Miss M had received the items. But I cant see that there has 
been any plausible explanation for how the payments were going to be protected. 
Nor how the payment wouldnt reach the sellers account until the items were 
received  when Miss M was making a faster payment through her mobile banking 
app, that would typically reach the recipients account almost immediately.
Given the concerns that Miss M clearly had about the legitimacy of the items, I think she 
ought fairly and reasonably to have proceeded with more caution and not taken at face value 
what she was being told, without seeking further clarity. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss M has said, that the fraudster sent her a copy of a 
drivers licence and that they had over 170,000 followers. However, when I consider 
everything in the round, in the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded Miss M should 
have accepted that things were as they were being presented to her. I think its reasonable 
to have expected Miss M to question the plausibility of what was being offered, especially 
given that Miss M has said she had unfortunately paid for items previously, that had not 
turned out to be genuine. 
Weighing it all up, I think it more likely than not it would have been evident to Miss M that 
there was a considerable degree of risk associated with the purchases she was considering, 
which Im persuaded is supported within the messages she exchanged with the fraudster.
In the circumstances, I dont consider Miss M had a reasonable basis for believing she was 
buying genuine items and/or the seller of them was legitimate. All things considered, I dont 
think Miss M had a reasonable basis for believing the payment she was making was for 
genuine goods or services and Im persuaded this was sufficient reason for Monzo to fairly 
decline to reimburse her under the CRM Code. 
Is there any other reason Monzo ought to refund Miss M?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Miss M from financial harm. The 
CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. The CRM Code also says that the assessment of whether a 
firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. 
I am also mindful that when Miss M made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). Having considered this, Im not persuaded the payments Miss M made to the fraudsters 
were so remarkable that Monzo ought fairly and reasonably to have believed there was a 
scam risk. And so, I dont believe Monzo needed to do more than it did, in terms of providing 
warnings about making payments. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Miss M  
lost, once she had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Monzo did contact 
the receiving bank when Miss M raised the matter with it, but unfortunately it hasnt been 
able to recover any funds. But Im satisfied it did what I would have expected of it in 
attempting to recover the money Miss M had lost. 
I am sorry that Miss M has lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I understand the 
whole experience will have been very frustrating and upsetting for her. But in the 
circumstances, for the reasons explained, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order 
Monzo to repay her the money she has sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman