DRN-4512755
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Astrenska Insurance Limited unfairly refused to cover all-terrain 
vehicle use under their travel insurance policy. 
Both Mr and Mrs W are policyholders and have referred their complaint to this service. But 
as Mr Ws been the main correspondent, and for ease of reading, Ive referred to him alone. 
What happened
Mr W was planning a trip abroad for a holiday. It involved time in a rural area. He discovered 
the main mode of transport would be by all-terrain vehicle (ATV).  He checked the terms of 
his Astrenska travel insurance policy. He saw quad bikes listed as an excluded activity. So 
he emailed the insurer seeking clarification on coverage for ATVs. In response it said his 
policy didnt cover ATV use. 
He complained to Astrenska. In response it said it considered ATVs to come under the 
bracket of quad bikes. It said its not something it can provide cover for when in use. Mr W 
wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He said he would have to take out additional 
insurance to cover him for when using an ATV as a means of transport. To resolve his 
complaint he asked that Astrenska confirm cover or reimburse the cost of additional 
insurance. He later took out a different policy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend Astrenska do anything differently. She felt it had 
demonstrated it didnt offer cover for ATV use. Mr W didnt accept that outcome. He asked 
that an Ombudsman consider his complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr W and Astrenska have provided. Instead Ive focused on the key issues. But 
I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything they have submitted. 
I dont consider the terms of the policy to be unclear or ambiguous as Mr W claims. It 
provides a list of covered activities. ATV isnt included. Neither is it in a list of excluded 
activities. The policy reasonably requests, for potential activities that arent listed, for contact 
to be to be made to confirm if cover is provided. Thats what Mr W did, having read the 
terms. 
Mr Ws referred to various unlisted activities, giving hypothetical situations. Im not going 
address those in this complaint that is about what did happen to him. But I will say it wouldnt 
be practical to list, in the policy, every possible activity. And the lists do give a general 
indication of the level of risk involved with those that are covered and those that arent. As 
examples cycling, table tennis and fishing are in. But base jumping, jet skiing and shark 
diving arent. 
In response to Mr Ws request for clarity on ATV use, Astrenska said theyre not covered. Its 
said its limited in what it can cover for motorcycle, quad bike type vehicles. Im satisfied from 
the activities listed in the policy, and comments provided by Astrenskas underwriter, that 
ATV use isnt covered. Im persuaded it isnt the type of risk Astrenska wishes to take on  
regardless of whether use is primarily for transport or leisure. So I cant say its refusal to 
confirm cover was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr Ws made various arguments about what constitutes an ATV or a quad bike. I dont think 
it makes a difference to this complaint. Im satisfied Astrenska understood the basic nature 
and risk of ATVs even if it referred to, or considers them in the same general bracket, as 
quad bikes. 
For the above reasons I cant say Asternska treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably. So Im 
not going to require it to confirm cover or reimburse the cost of his new policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman