DRN-2097965
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the fund management of his endowment policy by The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited, as it hasnt performed as expected. 
What happened
Mr G took out his endowment policy in 1995. It was set up with a target sum assured of 
£27,034 and provided the same level of life cover. It had a term of 25 years and was 
invested 50% in the With-Profits fund and 50% into the Managed fund. 
In April 2020 Mr G was sent information that informed him his policy was due to mature a 
few months later in July 2020. That same information let him know the current value of the 
policy was £15,091.92 and the surrender value was around £19,000. Mr G complained as he 
had been paying £40.41 every month for 25 years to achieve £27,000. Royal London didnt 
uphold the complaint. It explained the areas Mr G was invested into and that returns had 
been lower than expected, but it hadnt found any errors with the administration of his policy. 
Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied the policy didnt contain 
any guarantee as to the maturity value and there wasnt any evidence the policy had been 
mismanaged. 
Mr G has asked for the matter to be reviewed. He is unhappy the policy was only set to 
achieve about 70% of what it was set up for. And he is particularly unhappy the value has 
dropped further between April 2020 and the policys maturity  by about £3,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G is unhappy with the value his policy achieved on maturity. But I can only 
uphold his complaint if I find that Royal London has done something wrong. 
Mr Gs policy is unit linked. It is invested into both the With-Profits fund and the Managed 
fund. The value of the policy is dependant on the value and number of units held in the 
policy. 
The With-Profits fund is invested into a broad area  equities, bonds, property and cash. It is 
generally accepted to be a low-risk investment. And as with all With-Profits funds, when 
investment returns are good, some returns are held back for a period when investment 
returns are poor. This is known as a smoothing effect. But the fund is still dependent on the 
overall performance of the investment to determine what bonuses, if any, are payable. 
The Managed fund is mainly invested into UK and overseas equities with an element of 
property and cash. As the equity proportion of the fund is higher, this is generally accepted 
as a medium risk investment. Because the fund is primarily equities based it means its value 
can rise and fall on a daily basis.  It also means that it can suffer sudden drops in value if 
there is a shock to the financial markets  such as with the terrorist attacks on 9/11, the 
financial crash of 2008, and more recently as a result of the pandemic. 
Mr Gs policy wasnt only building up a sum of money, it was also providing life cover of 
£27,034. That meant his premiums of £40.41 a month were going towards life cover and the 
investment (and management charges). 
That a policy or fund hasnt performed well, is not, of itself, reason enough to uphold this 
complaint. In order to uphold a complaint about the performance of the policy, I would need 
to conclude the business has been negligent in the management of the underlying 
investments, or in some way mismanaged the fund. Such a complaint is very unlikely to 
succeed. I say this because investment decisions necessarily involve subjective judgments 
by professionals and decision makers about the best or most prudent course of action open 
to them. That another set of professionals may have made a different set of investment 
decisions, or the judgments may have turned out to be wrong (in the sense that they did not 
produced the desired returns) it not evidence of negligence. Mr G hasnt provided any 
persuasive evidence that Royal London has been negligent or that it mismanaged his 
investment. 
Investment returns havent been very high for many years. In 1999/2000 the then regulator 
required all endowment providers to regularly write out to its policy holders with projections 
on what policies were likely to achieve on maturity. The very reason this exercise was 
required was due to low investment returns and the high risk of policyholders not having 
sufficient funds from policies to repay their mortgages when due.  The letters were sent to 
give a warning to policyholders and to prompt them into acting to ensure the repayment of 
any mortgage. I understand Mr G has been sent such letters, and so he ought to have been 
aware of how his policy was performing. 
I understand Mr G is particularly unhappy there has been a further drop in value from April 
2020 to the policy maturing. But as the investigator explained, the values given in April 
werent guaranteed. During that time, financial markets across the world had fallen 
substantially due to the pandemic and, although increasing again gradually, have yet to 
return to pre-pandemic levels. These are likely to have had a direct affect on the value of his 
policy. Whilst it is very unfortunate that Mr Gs policy was maturing at a time of volatility in 
the market, that isnt something Royal London had any control over. 
Mr G has also said his money should have been protected more as it came to the end of its 
term. There are some investments that are moved into less volatile investment areas in the 
final years/months of the investment  such as a cash fund. However, having looked at the 
terms of Mr Gs investment, that wasnt a feature of his policy. It was, of course, open to him 
to move his investment into different funds had he wished, but that was something he would 
have needed to ask Royal London to do. 
I do accept and acknowledge Mr Gs disappointment that his policy didnt perform as 
expected. But I can only uphold his complaint if Im satisfied the business has got something 
wrong and it is fair and reasonable to do so in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the 
reasons given, I dont find Royal London has done anything wrong.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020. 
Claire HopkinsOmbudsman