DRN-4198701
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about restrictions that St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP) has put on her 
account. She said she has been told to cease switching in and out of certain unit trusts. She 
doesnt feel she has been treated fairly. She wants to be able to switch without any 
restrictions going forward.
Mrs H has been represented by her husband, Mr H. He has been providing comments and 
responding on Mrs Hs behalf. But for ease of reference and because she is the 
complainant, I have instead used Mrs Hs name and referred to her throughout. 
What happened
Mrs H holds accounts with SJP. She has been investing in unit trusts either through an 
individual savings account (ISA) or an investment account. She said she received a letter 
from SJP in April 2022, notifying her that it was going to place restrictions on her switching 
activities within the accounts. 
Mrs H said SJP agreed that her frequent switching in and out of specific funds was not 
illegal. But, she said, SJP went ahead and imposed restrictions including delaying her 
switching instructions by 24 hours and not allowing her to switch into specific funds 
altogether. 
Mrs H said she was being discriminated against as the restrictions only applied to her and 
not to any other customers. She said SJP are in breach of contract, and she just wants to be 
treated the same as every other SJP client. She said she wants to be able to switch funds 
without restrictions.
SJP said in response, that it had analysed Mrs Hs switch activity. It said Mrs H was carrying 
out frequent short-term switches, usually lasting a day. It said it thought Mrs H was doing this 
with the purpose of her benefiting from an upward movement that had not been priced in. It 
said this was called market timing and had a detrimental impact on other customers.
SJP said it had overriding responsibilities to all its clients. It referred to terms within its own 
documentation along with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulation and in particular 
principles for businesses to adhere to, from the handbook. It said permitting frequent 
switching activity from Mrs H would cause a conflict with its wider interests to be fair to its 
other customers.
Mrs H was not happy with SJPs response and referred her complaint to our service.  
An investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint. He said he didnt think SJP had treated Mrs H 
unfairly. He said Mrs Hs investment strategy was different to that of most other investors 
and this is why SJP treated her differently. He said he found SJPs argument persuasive that 
Mrs Hs frequent switches had a negative impact on other investors returns. He referenced 
guidance issued by the Investment Association and a note from the FCA. He said the 
guidance issued outlined the negative impact of Mrs Hs investment strategy and that firms 
can turn business away in these circumstances. He concluded that SJPs actions were not 
unfair in the circumstances.
Mrs H was not in agreement with the investigators view. She said she did not accept the 
investigators conclusions. She said the investigator was happy to accept that she was being 
discriminated against. She said when a switch into a property fund was cancelled by SJP, 
and she made a loss, it settled and paid compensation. She said it knew what was 
happening so far as its actions were insider dealing, in her opinion. She asked that her 
complaint be appealed. 
So as this is the case, Mrs Hs complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look 
into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is the role of The Financial Ombudsman Service?
I have read all submissions provided by both parties and in doing so I think it is worth 
explaining from the outset about the role of The Financial Ombudsman Service as an 
informal dispute resolution service. As an ombudsman, I make decisions on the balance of 
probabilities, and as an impartial decision maker I look to make findings that are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. My role does not involve applying any 
regulatory or disciplinary powers and it is not in my remit to tell a business how it should or 
shouldnt operate. 
In the circumstances of Mrs Hs complaint, I have looked at two questions. Firstly, was it fair 
of SJP to decide Mrs H had been undertaking a market timing strategy? If it was, then were 
the actions taken by SJP to place restrictions on her account on balance, fair and 
reasonable or not? 
I will not be looking into Mrs Hs comments about SJP and insider dealing. Mrs H has made 
comments that are of a regulatory nature. I am not the regulator, the FCA are. Mrs H can 
send her comments to them if she wants to.  
Did SJP act fairly in deciding Mrs H had been undertaking a market timing strategy? 
It isnt really in dispute that Mrs H is carrying out a market timing strategy. She has not 
denied the strategy she has deployed, what or how she is doing it or why. It is 
acknowledged by both sides here what is happening. Furthermore, Mrs H has stated she is 
willing to encourage more people to engage in the same strategy. She is open about what 
she is doing and doesnt believe she is doing anything wrong.
But for completeness, I would have drawn a conclusion that SJP acted fairly in deciding Mrs 
H was engaged in market timing anyway.  
I say this after considering the analysis provided by SJP that it carried out over a quarter 
during 2022. It could see that Mrs H carried 90 switches that amounted to a total value 
altogether £11,800,000. It said 90% of this by volume and value was in relation to a North 
American unit trust. 
SJP said Mrs H was frequently switching into the North American unit trust when there was 
an upward movement in an underlying US index. It said this wouldnt have been reflected in the unit trust price, due to the price being calculated at the close of the last business day. 
SJP explained that Mrs H was getting what it called a free ride each time she switched, 
and that Mrs Hs activities were what is known as market timing. 
SJP provided persuasive analysis about what Mrs H has been doing and why. Again, I dont 
think SJP has unfairly drawn the conclusions it has here. 
So, with all I have said above, it is not in dispute between the parties what Mrs H is doing. 
What is in dispute is whether Mrs H should be able to carry on with her market timing 
activities or not and whether SJP has acted unfairly in placing restrictions on her accounts.
Did SJP act fairly when it placed restrictions on Mrs Hs accounts?
Mrs H has said she is being discriminated against and is not being treated fairly. She said 
she just wants to be able to make switches on her accounts like other SJP account holders. 
SJP has placed restrictions on Mrs Hs trading activity. It has either stopped Mrs H from 
switching in certain funds or has delayed her switching request by 24 hours. SJP said it has 
a right to refuse Mrs Hs switching requests or take action that it deems appropriate. It says 
it has stated this in its supplementary information document for her accounts.  
Within the SID document, it states under 7.4 Refusal to Act, 
If we reasonably believe that something you ask us to do might not follow the law, 
rules or regulations that apply, we can delay taking action whilst it considers the 
request or refuse to act.
I have looked through and read the SID document that SJP has referred to. I can see that 
by delaying or refusing to act, SJP was seeking to follow the terms provided in this 
document and in particular term 7.4 (given above). It has provided further information that it 
says supports the action it has taken under its own terms here.  
It has referred to two principles for businesses, within the FCA handbook that it thinks are 
relevant here. These are:
Principle 6: Customers interests  a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 8: Conflicts of interest  a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both 
between itself and its customers and between a customer and another client. 
SJP said it has had to in this instance, manage a conflict of interest, between Mrs H and its 
other customers that have holdings in the unit trust that she frequently switches in and out 
of.
SJP has also submitted to our service guidance written by the Investment Association about 
market timing. The guidance was published by the association to highlight the damaging 
effects of market timing on the wider client base of a unit trust. It also gives guidance on 
what a business can do about it including applying restrictions or turning business away. At 
the back of the guidance is a note written by the FCA also about market timing. SJP said it 
had followed the guidance when it applied the restrictions to Mrs Hs accounts.
I have read the Investment Association guidance on market timing and the FCA note that 
was given as an appendix. The guidance outlines the issues with customers engaged with 
market timing and the negative impact this has on most investors that are holding units for the long term. SJP has explained the conflict of interest it had here in allowing Mrs Hs 
trading activity to continue and has referenced FCA principles about this, given above. 
I have also read a report written by the European Securities and Markets Authority about 
market timing, that it issued in 2015. The report was called Investigations of Mis-practices 
in the European Investment Fund Industry. The authority stated the need for a firm to take 
action to ensure the wider protection of its investors. I think when I look through all of this, I 
can see the reasons why SJP has taken the actions it has, and I dont think it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in doing so.  
Mrs H has said on a few occasions that what she is doing is not breaking the law or rules. 
but I dont think thats the point here. SJP have had to balance its responsibilities to Mrs H 
against its wider responsibilities to its other customers, after it has seen Mrs H greatly 
benefit at their expense. SJP has listed guidance, regulation, and its own terms to support 
the action it has taken to protect its wider customer base. In looking through all that it has 
done and the reasons why, I am satisfied it has not acted unfairly to Mrs H.  
In conclusion, based on everything I have read and the findings I have given, I dont uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman