DRN-2142905
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as TSB) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K bought a regular premium MPPI policy in 1994 alongside a mortgage in a 
meeting in one of Lloyds branches. The policy covered Mr K and Mrs K against accidents, 
sickness and unemployment.
Mr K and Mrs K say Lloyds mis-sold the MPPI policy to them. They say they were given the 
impression by Lloyds that they had to have PPI. They add that if they knew it was optional, 
they wouldnt have had it as money was tight at the time they were sold it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint. As Mr K and Mrs K dont agree 
with the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr K and Mrs Ks case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint because of the following reasons:
I first of all looked at whether Mr K and Mrs K were given a choice to have the policy. 
I looked at the sales documentation provided and considered Mr K and Mrs Ks 
recollections to help me understand what more likely happened at the time of sale. 
Lloyds has provided an application form and a credit agreement.
Im not aware of any known issues with the way Lloyds sold these policies around 
this time. And due to the amount of years that have passed since the sale, I have not 
been able to obtain a detailed recollection of the sale either, although this is 
understandable considering how many years has passed. The application form does 
present MPPI as optional. So, with all of this in mind, I think it is more likely Lloyds 
gave Mr K and Mrs K a choice to have MPPI and they agreed to it by signing the 
mortgage application form. 
Moving on, Lloyds has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr K and Mrs K and so, as 
this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mr K and Mrs K, it had to ensure during 
the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr K and Mrs Ks needs. 
After reviewing all that has been provided by the parties, it doesnt look as if the 
MPPI policy was unsuitable for Mr K and Mrs K based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Mr K and Mrs K say they had between 6-12 months sick 
pay, but the policy would also have paid in addition to any provisions they would 
have had. So, the benefit would have been of use to Mr K and Mrs K during a difficult 
time as they could have used their sick pay to pay for other expenses. I think, on 
balance, when I consider the benefit provided by the policy, they had a need for this 
cover for any extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any 
other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would make the policy 
unsuitable for them.
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Mr K and Mrs K took out and it is presented clearly on the credit agreement but even 
though it has provided information detailing how much it cost, I cannot be sure that 
these costs were disclosed to Mr K and Mrs K in a clear and fair way in the meeting. 
That said, even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont think Mr K and Mrs K would 
have done anything different and decided against having the policy for the reasons 
that I have already given for the policy being suitable. Its possible Lloyds didnt point 
out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr K and Mrs K wouldve 
been affected by any of these.
So, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr K and Mrs K this PPI policy. This means Lloyds dont 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K and Mrs K. But Lloyds has agreed to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K and Mrs K because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K and Mrs K about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell    
Mr K and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr K and Mrs K.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr K and Mrs K any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
arranged to do this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman