DRN-2974214
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) was wrong to not reduce his overdraft limit to 
£700 when he asked it to do so via its live online chat facility.
Mr P is represented in his complaint by a third party. However, for ease, I will simply refer to 
any submissions made by Mr Ps representative as if they had been made by him.
What happened
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that TSB had 
done nothing wrong. In summary she said TSB was entitled to refuse to reduce Mr Ps 
overdraft unless he called it, or visited a branch, requesting the same. 
She also said that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold TSB liable for Mr Ps decision to 
continue spending up to, and beyond, his unreduced £1,300 overdraft limit.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view. So his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been 
said.
TSB didnt refuse to reduce Mr Ps overdraft. Instead it advised Mr P that to be able to do so, 
or for it to be able to consider doing so, he would need to telephone it, or visit a branch. And 
I cant see that either of these two options were particularly onerous for Mr P to comply with. 
I would also add that I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to hold Mr P liable for his 
continued spending when it was his decision to continue doing so and when it was his 
decision not to seek an overdraft reduction via the two options TSB gave him.
For the sake of completeness I would also add that in my view TSB hasnt breached any of 
its obligations to Mr P, including regulatory ones and regulatory ones specifically referred to 
by Mr P, in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman