DRN-4222185
Complaint
Miss J has complained about personal loans Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to her. She says that the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have 
been provided to her.
Background
118 118 Money initially provided Miss J with a first loan for £3,500.00 in April 2017. The loan 
had an APR of 99.9% and the total amount to be repaid of £6,663.36, which included 
interest, fees and charges of £3,133.36, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of 
just under £280. This loan was settled early with some of the proceeds from loan 2.
 
118 118 Money then provided Miss J with a second loan for £3,395.72 in November 2018. 
£1,395.72 of the proceeds from this loan went towards settling the outstanding balance on 
loan 1. This loan also had an APR of 99.9% and the total amount to be repaid of £6,409.68, 
which included interest, fees and charges of £3,013.96, was due to be repaid in 24 monthly 
instalments of just under £270.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Js complaint and he didnt think that proportionate 
checks would have prevented 118 118 Money from providing Miss J with either of these 
loans. So he didnt think that Miss Js complaint should be upheld. 
Miss J disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision as per the next step of our dispute resolution process.
 
My provisional decision of 12 June 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 12 June 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Miss Js complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Miss Js complaint. 
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to carry out reasonable checks to be able to understand whether 
Miss J could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information 118 118 Money provided suggested that it carried out credit checks before 
both loans were provided. The results of which showed that Miss J was significantly indebted 
and had had difficulty repaying credit. Indeed she had a number of defaulted accounts and 
an active county court judgement at the time she applied for loan 1. Furthermore, Miss J was 
significantly more indebted by the time that she applied for loan 2 and a significant 
proportion of her monthly income was going towards credit repayments. 
All of this left me persuaded by what Miss J had said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time of these loans. And while I acknowledged that it was possible 
Miss Js financial position wasnt as a result of financial difficulty, I added that my experience 
of these types of cases suggested this was unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or 
plausible arguments from 118 118 Money, I was persuaded to accept Miss Js version of 
events in this instance. 
As this was the case, I thought that Miss Js existing financial position meant that she was 
always unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And I was satisfied that, bearing in mind everything, reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt 
have provided these loans to Miss J. 
As 118 118 Money provided Miss J with these loans, notwithstanding this, I set out that it 
was my intention to issue a final decision which found that it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards her. 
Miss J ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So I was satisfied that Miss J lost out because of what 118 118 Money did 
wrong and I explained that it was my intention to issue a final decision that directed it to put 
things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss J confirmed that she agreed with my provisional decision and that she had nothing 
further to add.
118 118 Money didnt provide anything further for me to consider or ask for any additional 
time to do so. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Miss Js complaint in my provisional 
decision of 12 June 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further to consider by the 
parties, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Miss Js 
complaint. And I remain satisfied that 118 118 Money needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Miss J
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that 118 118 Money should put things right for 
Miss J by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss J paid on her loans;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss J to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Miss Js credit file as a result of these 
loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 12 June 2023, Im 
upholding Miss Js complaint. Madison CF UK Limited should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman