DRN-2475248
The complaint
Mrs S complains Saga Services Limited (Saga) unfairly cancelled her car insurance policy.
What happened
The background circumstances are not really in dispute, so Ive set out a brief summary;
Mrs Ss policy was due for renewal in March 2020.
Sagas adviser took payment from a card already on file which Mrs S agreed (last 
four digits only).
Saga confirmed the policy and payment.
Soon after, Saga realised they were unable to take the card payment so contacted 
Mrs S by email and letter asking her to pay the outstanding balance, but Mrs S didnt 
respond. 
As payment wasnt received, Saga cancelled Mrs Ss policy and charged her a 
cancellation fee. 
Mrs S took out a new policy through Saga, but the premium was higher as they were 
unable to match the price of the previous premium. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs S raised a formal complaint.
Saga agreed it had made an error but maintained the cancellation as Mrs S hadnt 
made contact.
Saga offered her half of the difference between her previous and new policy, which 
was £95.52, for the inconvenience caused. 
Mrs S disagreed with Sagas response and referred the complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He agreed Saga had made a 
mistake during the renewal call but thought Saga had taken reasonable steps to inform 
Mrs S the payment hadnt been successful. And as she hadnt taken further action, Saga 
had been fair to cancel the policy. He thought the offer to pay £92.50 was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mrs S has said the cancellation only occurred because Saga gave her the incorrect 
information over the phone  and so it should pay the full difference and refund the 
cancellation fee. As Mrs S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Sagas error meant payment wasnt successful. What is in dispute is 
whether Saga was fair to cancel the policy after making this error. 
I can see the terms of the policy say: Your insurer or Saga, on their behalf, may cancel your 
policy by giving you seven days notice by recorded delivery letter to your last known 
address. There are a number of reasons why your policy may be cancelled, including non-
payment of premium. 
Following the renewal call, Saga sent Mrs S policy documents and a letter thanking her for 
payment. At this point, Mrs S has said she thought the payment had been taken without any 
problems  this seems reasonable to me. And so, when Saga emailed her around a month 
later saying the payment was still outstanding, I understand why she thought this may have 
been a mistake. However, there were steps Mrs S could have taken to confirm this 
particularly as it was one month on from the renewal.
Saga then wrote to Mrs S after this, informing her the payment was still outstanding. This 
included a letter by recorded delivery to let her know the policy would be cancelled if the 
payment wasnt made within seven days. This was dated 13 April and stated the policy 
would be cancelled on 20 April. 
Mrs S has confirmed she received the letters but didnt contact Saga as shed previously 
received a payment confirmation, and so thought she could disregard the letter.
Ive carefully considered whats happened and what Mrs S has told us. But I think Saga took 
reasonable steps to inform her of the issue by sending several letters, including one by 
recorded delivery that warned the policy would be cancelled. And this shouldve been 
enough to alert Mrs S to check payment had been taken from her account and/or contact 
Saga to discuss further. 
I can see the letters sent said they could be disregarded, but this was only if the payment 
had been made in the last few days. But this wasnt the case as the renewal call was several 
weeks prior. So, I think this shouldve highlighted a problem with the payment and Mrs S 
would need to contact Saga to avoid the policy being cancelled. 
In my view it isnt as simple as saying that because Saga made the initial error it should be 
held responsible for every negative impact that follows. Mistakes can be made and whats 
important are the steps taken to remedy that mistake. The number of letters sent, including 
the clear cancellation date by recorded delivery, couldnt have made it anymore apparent 
that Mrs S needed to make contact. I think the cancellation was fair and reasonable and 
completed in keeping with the policy terms. And so, it follows Im satisfied the cancellation 
fee was applied fairly. 
Unfortunately, when Mrs S reinsured with Saga, the policy had increased in cost. Saga has 
offered Ms S half of the difference between the premiums, and Im satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  strictly speaking Saga didnt have to make any offer.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman