DRN-1721594
 
The complaint
Mr Ms representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable advice by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
Investments (Sun Life).
It says:
Theres no evidence that a more suitable 10-year savings plan was discussed. 
Theres no justification for the level of life cover attached. 
 
What happened
In February 1992, Sun Life advised Mr M to invest £30 a month (for a period of 25 years) 
into a unit-linked savings plan (with life cover) which started in April 1992 and matured on 
5 April 2017. In total Mr M paid £9,000 in contributions and received £14,930 upon maturity. 
Sun Life upheld the complaint. In summary, it said:
The recommendation wasnt suitable given Mr Ms age and circumstances at the 
time. 
There was no justification for recommending life cover or a 25-year term contract 
given his circumstances. 
There was no evidence that alternative products were discussed. 
By way of redress it found that Mr M hadnt suffered a loss. 
 
The CMC disagreed with the business and referred Mr Ms complaint to our service. It thinks 
the excess life cover charges shouldve been taken into account as well as lower charges on 
an alternative product. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and initially thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes satisfied that Sun Lifes approach to the redress methodology is fair. In other 
words, the offer to refund premiums, and pay compensation for investment loss (less 
the maturity value) is fair. However he doesnt think the interest rate should be 1% 
compound. He thinks it should be 8% to reflect the cost of being deprived of the 
money.   
 
The business disagreed with the investigators view. In short, it said:Its objective was to put Mr M back in the position he wouldve been in had it not been 
sold the unsuitable product.
Because Mr M had a recorded need for savings, it believes he wouldve invested in a 
different product. Therefore redress is based on loss of investment opportunity plus 
8% simple interest to any loss. 
As no loss was identified there was no figure to add 8% simple interest to.
 
The CMC also disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, it said:
Mr M intended to be invested as he held the investment until maturity.
He shouldve been offered the best contract from the product range i.e. an 
extendable 10 -ear policy.  
If Mr M had been advised correctly, with all things being equal any surrender value 
wouldve been much greater.
Sun Life concluded that there was no investment loss, and the investigators 
proposed redress would almost certainly produce a lower figure than proposed by 
Sun Life. A comparison should be made with an extendable 10-year plan.  
 
Our investigator having considered the additional points made by the parties said he wasnt 
going to uphold this complaint. Hes satisfied that Sun Lifes approach to calculating redress 
is in line with our approach.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Sun Life accepts that the recommendation was unsuitable the key issue for me to 
consider is redress, and whether or not its suitable in this case.  
Having done so, I agree with the investigators latest conclusion. Im not going to uphold this 
complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that Sun Lifes redress 
methodology is unreasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied that it takes into account 
Mr Ms recorded need for savings and that life cover wasnt suitable.  
Im mindful there are alternative ways of calculating redress and there are arguments for and 
against each of those alternatives. I dont think that theres a set method of redress in this 
case. 
So whilst I appreciate the points made by the CMC about calculating redress using the 10-
year extendable savings plan, I dont think theres any way of knowing, with any degree of 
certainty, what Mr M would have done in the alternative, if hed been advised properly. 
Despite what the CMC says, on balance I think it would be almost impossible to know.
That said, I think if Mr M had been better advised I believe he would have chosen a savingsplan without unnecessary life cover. Therefore hes entitled to compensation based on the 
potential returns he would have achieved via such a suitable plan which is what Sun Life 
appears to have done. 
I also think Sun Life was right to use the Bank of Englands base rate plus 1% compounded, 
which I think in this instance provides a fair and reasonable basis for assessing such 
compensation and not 8% as initially thought by the investigator.
It seems Sun Life has already compared the returns Mr M received via the plan with 
the returns he wouldve achieved if he had invested the same sums on the same dates using 
the comparator above, and found no loss. 
If the comparisons had shown a loss, Sun Life would have to pay this loss and add 8% 
simple interest to this sum from the date on which the policy matured to the date of 
settlement of this complaint.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
I think the redress methodology applied by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman