DRN-4180190
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that TSB Bank plc decided to close his account. He wants TSB to reopen 
his account and pay him compensation for the problems this caused him. 
What happened
Firstly, Im aware that Mr G has previously complained to this service about TSB loading a 
fraud marker against his name. And I can see that he has also mentioned this matter when 
he brought this complaint to our service. Mr Gs complaint regarding the fraud marker has 
already been investigated by our service and a final decision was issued in January 2020. 
So, I wont be addressing this matter any further. This decision will focus on the closure of 
Mr Gs account in November 2021.
Mr G had an account with TSB in 2017 which the bank closed. Following this, TSB recorded 
a marker against Mr Gs name with CIFAS, the UKs fraud prevention agency Credit Industry 
Fraud Avoidance System. 
In August 2021, Mr G went into a TSB branch and opened another current account. TSB 
have said that this account was opened in error. And that Mr G shouldnt have been offered 
another account as hed previously had an account with the bank which it had closed. So, in 
November 2021, once it realised its mistake, it closed Mr Gs new account immediately.
Mr G complained to TSB and asked the bank to reopen his account. Mr G said that his 
account being closed caused him inconvenience as he used his account to receive his 
benefit payments and at the time his account was closed, he was on holiday overseas, 
which meant he couldnt access the money in his account. So, he had to borrow money from 
friends. TSB said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the 
account and relevant regulations when it had closed Mr Gs account.  
Mr G wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that hed been a good customer of the bank and believes that TSB have treated 
him like a money launderer because he made a number of cash deposits and withdrawals. 
Mr G has explained that he did this to exchange smaller notes for larger notes, which he is 
entitled to do. Mr G said that the whole experience had been upsetting and stressful. And 
that overall, hed been treated unfairly by TSB.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint. She thought TSB hadnt done anything 
wrong when it decided to close Mr Gs account. But she said TSB should have given Mr G 
more notice and recommended TSB pay Mr G £150 compensation for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused. Mr G disagreed and said he didnt believe the adjudicator had been 
impartial. He also said that he wanted his account reopened and more compensation. TSB 
also disagreed.
Following this an investigator reviewed what had happened and asked TSB and Mr G for 
more information. The investigator asked Mr G if he had any other accounts at the time and 
how TSBs actions had impacted him. In response Mr G said he had to borrow money from 
strangers whilst he was abroad because TSB closed his account. But he didnt provide any 
evidence to support this. More recently hes told the investigator that he had to borrow 
money from neighbours. He has maintained that he wants TSB to reopen his account. 
TSB clarified that it shouldnt have offered Mr G a new account in 2021 because it had 
previously closed an account, he had with the bank in 2017. So, it says it had been opened 
by mistake. And it wasnt willing to offer Mr G another account.
The investigator looked at everything again and said that TSB hadnt done anything wrong 
when it had closed Mr Gs account. He also said that TSB had made a mistake in opening 
the account but in doing so this hadnt caused Mr G any detriment. Mr G disagreed. He 
wants £1,500 compensation so that he can repay money he has borrowed from others.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says he hasnt done anything wrong and has pointed out that hes been a good 
customer of the bank. He wants TSB to reopen his bank account  he believes its because 
of the cash deposits and withdrawals that he made on his account between September and 
November 2021. Hes argued that he was simply exchanging smaller denomination notes for 
larger ones, which hes entitled to do. So, he feels the bank has treated him unfairly when it 
closed his account.
As the investigator has already explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for 
deciding whether to open or close accounts and providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. TSB also has important 
legal and regulatory obligations it must also meet when providing accounts to customers. 
Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must 
keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed. 
Banks are entitled to end their business relationship with a customer, as long as its done 
fairly and is in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
In this case TSB closed Mr Gs account without notice. Having looked at all the evidence 
available to me, in my view that wasnt unreasonable. Mr G had previously had an account 
with the bank which had been closed because the bank had concerns about how Mr G was 
operating that account. So, I cant say TSB have treated Mr G unfairly when it closed his 
account in November 2021, and I wont be telling the bank to reopen the account.
Mr G has told us that TSB closing his account caused him a lot of problems. Hes said that 
he was overseas when his account was closed, which meant he wasnt able to access the 
money in his account. And that as a result he says he had to borrow £1,500, which is also 
the amount of compensation Mr G is seeking. But his account balance was considerably less 
than £1,500 and Mr G hasnt provided any evidence of his borrowing. I can also see from 
looking at Mr Gs TSB account statements he had access to at least one other bank account 
at the time and wasnt using the account to receive any benefits or wages, so I think the 
impact of the immediate closure would have been reduced. Ive thought carefully about how TSBs actions impacted Mr G. He wants compensation for 
the trouble and upset he says hes been caused. TSB have explained it should never have 
opened another account for Mr G, and that it made a mistake when it allowed Mr G to open 
an account in August 2021. If we think a businesss decision is to the detriment of its 
customer, we can tell it to take action to resolve a complaint including paying a customer 
compensation. But Im not persuaded allowing Mr G to open another account was to Mr Gs 
detriment. I say this because he had the benefit of the use of an account for around four 
months that he shouldnt have had were it not for TSBs mistake. So, when I weigh 
everything up, I cant say that Mr G has actually lost out financially and Im not satisfied that 
he has been caused any trouble and upset by TSBs error. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to award Mr G any compensation.
In summary, I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I cant say TSB have acted unreasonably and treated Mr G unfairly when 
it closed his account. So, I wont be directing TSB to do anything more to resolve Mr Gs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman