DRN-3160292
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax continued to send him monthly 
statements by post after it had assured him this would not happen.
What happened
Mr K had a current account with Halifax. He says he received a paper statement for the 
period from 25 February 2021 to 25 March 2021. He was surprised by this because he says 
hed told Halifax he didnt want monthly statements. He says hed given this instruction to it 
in 2019. And, since that date, apart from annual statements which he accepted Halifax was 
required to send him, he hadnt received any monthly statements.
He contacted Halifax and complained about what had happened. Halifax looked into his 
complaint. It apologised for what had happened. It accepted it had made a mistake. It told 
him it had amended its records and he wouldnt get any more monthly statements posted to 
him. It paid him £50 by way of compensation for the trouble and inconvenience hed 
experienced and a further £18 for the cost of his calls. Mr K accepted this.
Mr K says that the following month he received another statement by post. This statement 
was for the period from 26 March 2021 to 23 April 2021. He complained again to Halifax. 
Halifax re-opened his complaint. It apologised that it hadnt amended its records in the way 
that it should have. It offered to pay him a further £25 by way of compensation and an 
additional £4 for the call hed had to make. Mr K says he didnt accept this offer but Halifax 
nevertheless paid the money into his account. He says he felt pressurised to accept the 
payment during the call.
Mr K complained to our service about what happened. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. She noted that Mr K had been told he couldnt contact the complaint department 
at Halifax to register his complaint himself. Instead hed been told that the adviser he was 
speaking to would register the complaint for him. Halifax said this was due to a change in 
arrangements it had made because of the coronavirus pandemic. Our investigator noted that 
this new arrangement hadnt prevented Mr Ks complaint from being escalated. She thought 
Halifax had acted fairly and reasonably when it had escalated the complaint to the complaint 
team.
She thought Halifax acted appropriately when it apologised for its errors. It also paid 
compensation to Mr K of £75 (in total) and reimbursed him for the cost of his calls (£22 in 
total). She thought this was fair and reasonable and was in line with what our service 
wouldve expected it to do. She didnt think Halifax needed to do anything further to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr K didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Halifax made errors in this case. It accepted that it shouldnt have 
sent Mr K monthly statements. Mr K asked it to send him annual statements only. And, hes 
told Halifax he doesnt want paper statements.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Ks account. These say that statements are 
usually provided monthly. But, Mr K could ask Halifax to provide statements less often than 
that. This was on the proviso that statements would always be provided at least once each 
year. 
Mr K told Halifax in 2019 he only wanted annual statements. 
There is reference to Mr K also wanting paperless statements. The terms and conditions 
state that this option is available where the customer has registered for internet banking.
So, Mr K shouldnt have received a monthly statement in March 2021. Halifax told him, on 31 
March 2021, it had amended this. But in fact, the necessary amendment wasnt made and 
he received a further statement at the end of April 2021.
When a business makes a mistake, such as happened here, its not our role to fine or punish 
it. We look at the impact it had on the customer and consider what, if any, loss the customer 
has experienced. 
Mr K was upset when he got the statement in March. He had to phone Halifax on two 
occasions at that time and was on the phone for about 90 minutes in total. Halifax paid him 
compensation of £50 (plus £18 for his calls) and he accepted that. When he received a 
further statement in April he had to phone Halifax again. He phoned it once and the call 
lasted approximately 15 minutes. His complaint was investigated and he received a call a 
few days later from the complaint team. During that call he was told his complaint was 
upheld and was offered a further £29 (in total).
Mr K says this is not enough compensation. And he says Halifax paid the money into his 
account even though he didnt accept the offer.
Ive thought about what Mr K has said here. I can understand the inconvenience he 
experienced when he had to raise a second complaint after receiving assurances that the 
problem had been resolved. But, taking everything into account I think the compensation 
Halifax paid here was fair and reasonable. It also corrected the matter and Mr K hasnt 
received monthly statements since. 
The compensation was paid directly into Mr Ks account. During the call Mr K said he 
needed further time to think about this offer. The adviser told him he wouldnt be changing 
his view about the level of compensation offered. Mr K responded by saying, if that was the 
case, he would progress his complaint to our service. And, he has been able to progress his 
complaint to our service. So, I dont think hes been disadvantaged because of what 
happened when the money was paid directly into his account.
Ive also thought about the fact Mr K couldnt speak to the complaint department when he 
logged his complaints. I can see that on both occasions (when he complained in March 2021 
and again at the end of April 2021) his complaints were properly logged and escalated to the 
complaint team. I can also see that on both occasions he was contacted by a member of the 
complaint team and told verbally the outcome of his complaint. If there was any matter that 
he thought hadnt been addressed, he had the opportunity to raise it then. So, I dont think Halifax treated him unfairly or unreasonably when it told him hed have to log his complaint 
with the adviser hed first contacted.
Having considered everything here, I dont require Halifax to have to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman