DRN-3750885
The complaint
Mr J complains about the settlement offer made by Covea Insurance plc when he made a 
claim on a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J insured his car with Covea. The car was vandalised and the fire damage caused by this 
meant Covea declared it a write-off. Covea accepted the claim and its final offer in 
settlement of the claim was £12,890.67 less the applicable policy excess. It said this amount 
represented the market value of Mr Js car at the time of the damage.
Mr J complained to Covea. He said the amount offered was significantly less than it would 
cost to replace his car with a similar one. He said he was unable to find a similar car for less 
than £20,000.
When Covea rejected his complaint, Mr J referred it to our service. Our investigator thought 
Coveas offer had been fair. Mr J didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is to consider what the relevant terms and conditions of Mr Js policy 
say. These say that, in cases of loss or damage, The most we will pay is the market value 
of your vehicle, accessories and spare parts at the time of the loss or damage.
The terms and conditions define the market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle with 
a vehicle of the same make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition as your vehicle 
was immediately before the loss or damage you are claiming for. Where we are unable to 
estimate the market value of your vehicle we will use the nearest market equivalent for 
comparison.
Covea said the market value of Mr Js car was £12,890.67, and used this figure as the basis 
for its settlement offer. Ive looked at how it established this value.
The value given by Covea was the average of three values it obtained from different vehicle 
valuation tools. These use data from a number of sources to calculate a likely selling price of 
similar vehicles. The three values it obtained for Mr Js car were £12,650, £12,325 and 
£13,697. Im satisfied from the evidence available to me that Covea obtained these 
valuations using accurate information about Mr Js car, and it hasnt been suggested by Mr J 
that the information relied on by Covea to obtain these valuations was wrong. As part of our 
enquiries, we checked a fourth valuation tool which gave a value of £13,720.
Vehicle valuation isnt an exact science. Our general approach to complaints of this nature is 
that if an insurer makes an offer which is within the range of the values obtained from the 
tools, once any outliers have been excluded for being too high or too low, then well normally 
say thats fair. 
The range of values from the valuation tools gives a range of £12,325 to £13,720. Given the 
spread of the four values, Im not persuaded that any of them should be excluded from 
consideration as being obviously too high or too low. Coveas offer of £12,890.67 is within 
this range. Im satisfied Covea has made a fair offer based on the valuations available from 
the relevant tools.
Mr J says hes unable to find a car similar to his for the amount offered. We usually dont 
consider advertised prices of vehicles to be more persuasive than the valuation tools 
because the advertised price isnt necessarily the selling price. The valuation tools take data 
from a number of sources to establish a likely selling price, including advertised. Hes also 
said that the current used car market has resulted in inflated prices meaning the settlement 
offer is inadequate. The valuation tools give values based on the market at the time of the 
loss, which is what the terms and conditions say is how Covea will establish the market 
value. Increases in prices since the loss dont mean that Covea should increase its 
settlement, when the offer it made was fair.
Im satisfied Covea made a reasonable settlement offer. The evidence available to me 
indicates its in line with valuation tools, and Ive seen nothing which persuades me I should 
discount the valuations from these tools on the basis that the values are inaccurate. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. I dont require Covea Insurance plc to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman