DRN-3344134
The complaint
Miss S says Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Miss S opened a shopping account with Shop Direct in March 2019. Her account limit was 
initially £250. It was then increased on three occasions between September 2019 and 
September 2020, until it reached £1075. The account fell into arrears in November 2020 with 
Miss S subsequently agreeing a payment plan with Shop Direct in January 2021. The 
account however remained in arrears.
Miss S says that Shop Direct shouldnt have lent to her and that the loan became 
unsustainable for her, given that she couldnt keep up with the payments. 
Miss S lost her job after opening the account. 
Shop Direct says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss S  and each time 
when it increased her credit limit. It also says that Miss S was given her first credit limit 
increase in September 2019 after she requested it and the second one in May 2020 after 
shed placed an order that exceeded her credit limit. 
Our adjudicator thought that Miss Ss complaint should be partially upheld. They thought that 
the initial credit and first credit limit increase given to Miss S were acceptable, but that by the 
time her credit was increased for the second time, in May 2020, Shop Direct didnt act fairly 
or reasonably in doing so. So our adjudicator said that Shop Direct should pay back interest 
and charges it made as a result of the credit that was unfairly extended to Miss S.
As Shop Direct disagreed with our adjudicator the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Miss Ss complaint.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Miss Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Shop Direct should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
When Miss S opened her account in March 2019, Shop Direct has told us there were no 
signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and 
based on the information Miss S has given us, I dont think there is anything to suggest that 
it would have been unreasonable for Shop Direct to have approved the account. Shop Direct 
didnt ask about Miss Ss income, and this may have helped it begin to build a picture of 
Miss Ss financial circumstances. But even if it had, at this stage, I dont think it would have 
made a difference to its decision to extend the credit.
Our adjudicator thought that the first increase to the credit limit on the account, in 
September 2019, didnt amount to irresponsible lending. Both parties have seen that 
assessment and Miss S has not raised any objection to those findings. I have reviewed 
the case in its entirety and have reached the same outcome as the adjudicator and for the 
same reasons. I havent seen enough to make me think Shop Direct should have been 
concerned about Miss Ss ability to afford the credit limit given before the increase in May 
2020. In the absence of any argument about that I will turn to the increase of May 2020. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why they thought Shop Direct shouldnt have provided 
Miss S with any further increases in credit from May 2020 onwards. Shop Direct didnt agree. 
It said that the checks it completed when Miss Ss credit were sufficient and it monitored the 
account to ensure that the lending was suitable. It also said that Miss S didnt fully use her 
credit limit and that prior to May 2020 some of the payments she was making were more 
than the minimum payment due. 
Ive therefore looked at the overall pattern of Shop Directs lending history with Miss S to see 
if there was a point at which Shop Direct should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean Shop Direct should 
have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Miss Ss credit limits. Miss S was able 
to provide us with bank statement information to assist us with finding out about her financial 
situation at the time.
In September 2019, Shop Direct increased Miss Ss credit limit to £650. The account history 
shows that Miss S was meeting and sometimes making payments above the minimum 
amount due. While I think it would have been appropriate for Shop Direct to have verified  
Miss Ss income for these limit increases (to help build a picture of her circumstances) at this 
point I havent seen enough to suggest that Shop Direct ought to have thought the credit was 
unaffordable for Miss S at this time. However, by May 2020, when Miss Ss credit limit was increased to £775, Miss S was no 
longer working and therefore receiving no income to help with her account payments. Miss S 
had been using increasingly more of her available credit whilst still making what tended to be 
only minimum payments to her account. So I think at this point it would have been 
proportionate for Shop Direct to do more to find out about Miss Ss verified income and 
committed expenditure, such as her living costs. I say this given that Shop Direct appears to 
not have appreciated that Miss S wasnt working and that her monthly account payments 
were being funded by her partner, who I note took out a short term loan in June 2020 to help 
meet Miss Ss account payments. So I think that proportionate checks will have likely shown 
Shop Direct that Miss S was by May 2020 struggling to manage the credit she already had 
and that there was a significant risk that increasing her credit limit in these circumstances 
would lead to her indebtedness increasing unsustainably.
It follows that I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Shop Direct to have increased the 
limit from May 2020. In my view, Shop Directs actions unfairly prolonged Miss Ss 
indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added got her into further debt. So Shop Direct should put 
things right.
Putting things right  what Shop Direct needs to do
Rework Miss Ss account to ensure that from May 2020 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to £650, including any buy now pay later interest (being 
the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also 
be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Shop Direct should contact Miss S to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Miss S has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file from May 2020 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Shop Direct should 
also remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file from May 2020 
onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to take off tax from this interest. Shop 
Direct must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Ss complaint. Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited should put things right in the way set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman