DRN-2966594
The complaint
Miss E complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard closed her credit card 
despite clearing the outstanding balance.
 
What happened
Miss E held a Barclaycard for a number of years. Last year, Barclaycard wrote to Miss E 
about her account as it had identified her as being in persistent debt. It offered Miss E a 
paydown plan and said the account would be closed to new spending. 
Miss E has explained that she has been going through the probate process in relation to her 
late mothers estate. When the probate process completed, Miss E cleared the outstanding 
balance due on her credit card. 
Earlier this year, Barclaycard says it carried out a review of Miss Es account and decided to 
close it. Miss E complained but Barclaycard didnt agree it had made mistakes. Barclaycard 
said that after Miss E cleared the outstanding balance it completed a review and felt closing 
her account would help avoid getting back into a persistent debt position. 
Miss E complained and said her credit card debt had been caused by factors outside of her 
control and delays in the probate process. Miss E wanted Barclaycard to reopen her credit 
card. Barclaycard didnt agree so Miss E referred her complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened but didnt agree Barclaycard had treated Miss E 
unfairly. Miss E asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss E is concerned about the probate process and that the way her late 
mothers accounts were settled led financial difficulties. I should explain that in this decision 
Im looking at Barclaycards actions in relation to her credit card and its decision to close it. If 
Miss E has wider concerns about the way her late mothers accounts were settled, she will 
need to raise those issues directly with Barclays before we can look at what happened. 
Ive looked at the available evidence and understand Barclaycard contacted Miss E having 
identified her credit card as being in persistent debt. Miss E was later able to clear the 
balance in full which meant the paydown plan was no longer required. I understand Miss E 
feels Barclaycard acted unfairly by then taking the decision to close her credit card, but I 
havent been persuaded thats the case. 
Barclaycards account terms say it can close an account at any time by giving two months 
notice. In this case, Barclaycard did provide Miss E with the relevant notice of its intention to 
close her account. The terms also say the credit card has no fixed term and that either party 
can decide to end it. Barclaycard says it reviewed Miss Es credit card and decided to close 
it. Im sorry to disappoint Miss E but as the terms say Barclaycard can close an account by 
providing two months notice I havent been persuaded it made an error by taking that step. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss E but I havent found that Barclaycard treated her unfairly 
by reviewing her credit card and taking the decision to close it. As Im satisfied Barclaycard 
dealt with Miss Es complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman