DRN-3481192
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Coventry Building Society mis-sold them mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies in 1992 and 2001.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C originally took out their mortgage in 1987 and did not arrange PPI at that time. 
It was when taking out additional borrowing in 1992 and 2001 that they were sold the 
policies. Although the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr C.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I invited both Coventry BS and Mr and Mrs C to provide 
any more evidence or information they wished to before I made a final decision. Neither 
party made any further substantive comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt ask for the PPI and that it wasnt made clear that it was 
optional. They have also said that the PPI was added without their knowledge.
Ive seen the loan application form from1992 which has a section for PPI. Mr and Mrs C 
have ticked to request PPI. They could have ticked No if they had not wanted the policy. 
Ive also seen the lending application form from 2001. This also has a separate section for 
PPI that offers a number of options, such as not requiring PPI, or that PPI has been 
arranged elsewhere. Again, Mr and Mrs C have ticked to request the policy.
Mr and Mrs C have no clear recollection of the sales, which isnt surprising given how long 
ago they took place. They thought they had taken PPI out at the same time as originally 
arranging their mortgage in 1987 and have said themselves that they cant remember how 
the policies were sold. 
The evidence suggests that there would have been some discussion about PPI as the 
paperwork was being filled out. On balance I consider that Mr and Mrs C probably decided to 
buy the policies, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Coventry BS advised Mr and Mrs C to buy the policies. Therefore, in recommending the PPI, 
it needed to ensure that the policies met their needs.
The policy began in November 1992, so Mr C would have needed to be in continuous work 
from at least May 1992 to be eligible under the terms and conditions. We therefore asked Mr 
C what his circumstances were from May 1992 and coincidentally he responded that he had 
given up his job in May 1992 to be a stay at home dad. He said that was due to Mrs C 
having a higher income at the time. However, Mr C then returned to work in August 1992 
and Mrs C then gave up her job.
However, the information in relation to this is somewhat contradictory.
Firstly, Coventry BS has a record of a call it made to Mr and Mrs Cs representative in 
August 2019 in which it asked if there were any gaps in Mr Cs employment. The 
representative put Coventry BS on hold whilst it rang Mr and Mrs C, coming back to say that 
there had been no gaps in employment. Although the representative says it has no record of 
this call, Coventry BS has the actual call recording.
Secondly, Mrs C has said that she knows she wasnt working in May 1992 or August 1992 
because shed given birth to their son in October 1991 and stayed home to look after him. 
Having said that Mr C became the sole wage earner at that time, she has also said that he 
did have a three-month gap in employment. 
Mrs C says she has found a P45 for herself from August 1992, although that in itself would 
not prove that Mr C wasnt working prior to that.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs C have provided their genuine recollection of events. 
However, it would be very difficult to accurately recall their circumstances in 1992. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr C hadnt been continuously working for six months 
at the point of the 1992 sale. Therefore he was eligible for the policy.
Mr C wouldnt have received any sick pay from his job and the couple didnt have any other 
means, such as savings to fall back on. Overall, for the sales in 1992 and 2001, I consider 
that Mr C was eligible for the policies and that the couple had a need for PPI and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time. Therefore it was reasonable of 
Coventry BS to advise them to buy it.
Coventry BS also had to provide Mr and Mrs C with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for them. Its possible that Coventry 
BS could have provided more information about the policies, particularly about the things 
that werent covered. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of those things. For example, he didnt 
have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have limited his ability to make a 
successful claim. As I consider that Mr and Mrs C had an interest in the PPI and decided to 
buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds.
This means that Coventry BS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs C. But Coventry BS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C 
because:
When the policy was sold, Coventry BS expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C 
about that. Because Coventry BS didnt tell Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Coventry BS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
As neither party disagreed, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI was not mis-sold  Coventry Building Society does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. As it has already paid this, I 
do not require Coventry Building Society to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman