DRN-4023526
The complaint
Miss O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc cancelled the direct debit for her commercial 
credit card, causing payments to be missed and charges to be applied.
What happened
Miss O held a commercial credit card with HSBC. She opened this card in 2006 and used it 
regularly for many years, with the monthly balance paid off each month via direct debit from 
her HSBC business current account.
In February 2021 the direct debit was returned unpaid, as a result it was cancelled by HSBC. 
HSBC wrote to Miss O at this time to say she would need to make other arrangements to 
pay the outstanding balance of the card. Miss O says that she had called to cancel the card, 
along with some other services she was paying HSBC for, and that it must have accidentally 
cancelled the direct debit instead. She does not feel she should therefore be held 
responsible for the outstanding balance of the card as she had wanted to cancel it and does 
not feel it is her fault that the direct debit was not being maintained.
HSBC has said that it made attempts to contact Miss O about the status of the account, and 
does not agree that it made any error in cancelling the direct debit. But having considered 
what had happened it did feel that it could have taken steps to stop the account balance 
from deteriorating further at an earlier stage. Specifically, HSBC felt that it should have taken 
steps to begin defaulting the account in around September 2021, when no payment had 
been made for six months. So HSBC offered to begin that default process now, and if the 
account did then default it said it would backdate that default to reflect what should have 
happened if the process began in September 2021. HSBC also offered to refund any 
charges and interest applied to the account from September 2021 onwards, and to pay 
Miss O £300 to recognise any distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss O did not accept this offer, she maintains that it is HSBCs error which caused the 
account to not be maintained, she does not think she should have to repay the outstanding 
balance.
One of our Investigators looked at all that had happened, but overall they were satisfied that 
HSBCs offer was reasonable, and that it was fair for Miss O to be asked to repay the 
remaining outstanding balance of the account.
Miss O remained unhappy, so as no agreement could be reached, this complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
I appreciate that Miss O recalls calling the bank to cancel the card, but not asking to cancel 
the direct debit. But HSBC has provided its records of contact with Miss O and there is no 
record of that call. HSBC has said the direct debit would have been cancelled either because 
there were insufficient funds to meet it or because it was cancelled by Miss O. But without 
supporting evidence from either side I cant know precisely how or why the direct debit was 
cancelled.
But what I have seen shows that when the direct debit was cancelled HSBC wrote to Miss O 
to say she would need to make alternative arrangements for repaying the balance of the 
card. And Ive not seen anything to make me think Miss O didnt receive that letter, or that 
she didnt receive the subsequent letters and statements that were sent to her about the 
account. Miss O has said herself that she received correspondence about the card but 
assumed it was a scam as she thought the account was closed. I cant though see that she 
took any steps to clarify that with HSBC.
So regardless of how or why the direct debit was cancelled, Im satisfied that Miss O would 
have been aware that she needed to make alternative arrangements to repay the 
outstanding balance of the card. And although some charges and interest were then applied, 
the balance was largely made up of spending that she had done using her card, so it is fair 
that she be asked to repay that balance.
Turning to what then happened when no payments were made to the card, I agree with 
HSBCs comments that it should have taken steps to default the account  and therefore to 
stop interest and charges  at an earlier stage. When it became clear that Miss O was not 
maintaining the account, HSBC should have stepped in to stop things from deteriorating 
further. But Im satisfied that the offer HSBC has made is a reasonable resolution to this 
issue. 
HSBC has offered to refund interest and charges from September 2021  around six months 
after the last payment to the account  and agreed to start the default process now, giving 
Miss O the chance to repay the outstanding balance if she can, and then backdate any 
default to September 2021. This offer would essentially mean that Miss O is then in the 
position she would have been in if HSBC had taken the actions it should have in 2021 when 
her account began to deteriorate. HSBC has also offered to pay Miss O £300 to recognise 
that its failure to step in to help her in late 2021 will have caused her some distress and 
inconvenience. Im satisfied that this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint.
I know that this will be disappointing for Miss O, but I wont be asking HSBC to do anything 
more than it has already offered to do.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint HSBC should:
- Refund interest and charges applied to Miss Os account from September 2021 
onwards
- Stop any further interest or charges from being applied to the account
- Begin the process of defaulting the account
- If Miss O does not repay the outstanding balance and the account does default then 
HSBC should backdate that default to September 2021- Pay Miss O £300
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman