DRN-4136090
The complaint
Mr A complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) reported late payment markers on his credit file.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr A made an online purchase and entered into a finance agreement 
with Klarna. 
Mr A set up a direct debit for automatic monthly payments. However, a technical error 
occurred on Klarnas system which meant the direct debit mandate was removed. Because 
of this the payments didnt go through.
Klarna sent messages to Mr A advising him that payments had been missed. Payments 
werent made in December 2021, January 2022 and February 2022. Klarna reported the 
missed payments on Mr As credit file.
Mr A said he didnt respond to the messages from Klarna because he thought they were 
scams. He settled the account in March 2022.
Mr A complained to Klarna about the missed payment markers. Klarna said it would remove 
the markers for December 2021, January 2022 and February 2022 and offered 
compensation of £30.
Mr A remained unhappy. He says he was declined a loan because of the adverse 
information recorded on his credit file. He sought compensation.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained that I though Klarna had acted fairly by 
agreeing to remove the credit markers. I said that although the initial error was caused by 
Klarna removing the direct debit mandate, I thought that Klarna had done enough to make 
Mr A aware that there was an issue with the direct debit and I felt that Mr A was partly 
responsible for the missed payments in January and February.
I said that there wasnt enough evidence to persuade me that Mr As consequential losses 
were caused solely by the missed payment markers. I recommended that Klarna should 
increase the compensation to £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Klarna accepted my provisional decision. Mr A said he hadnt received the initial £30 
compensation because it had been placed in his Klarna account which he no longer used. 
Mr A also said that he thought hed acted reasonably in treating the text messages from 
Klarna about the missed direct debit as a scam.
Ive reviewed the case again and taken on board what Mr A has said. If Mr A is correct about 
the initial compensation of £30 having been paid into an account which he no longer uses, 
and if he is unable to withdraw those funds, then I think Klarna should pay compensation of 
£100 to Mr A to an account of his choice. Beyond this, and for the reasons Ive previously 
explained, my decision remains as set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Klarna must pay compensation of £100 to Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Klarna Bank AB (publ) must take the steps 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman