DRN-2951488
Complaint
Mr B complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided him with an unaffordable 
guarantor loan. He says reasonable checks would have shown the loan to be unaffordable.
  
Background
TFS Loans provided Mr B with a guarantor loan for £3,000.00 in May 2013. The loan was 
secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and had an APR of 86.6% which 
meant the total amount to be repaid of £5,398.80 was due to be repaid in 24 monthly 
instalments of around £224.95. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown TFS Loans Mr B wasnt able to sustainably repay the loan. 
TFS Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.    
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B told TFS Loans that his monthly income was around £2,900.00. TFS Loans asked Mr B 
to provide payslips to verify this and also carried out a credit check. The credit check showed 
that Mr B had a significant amount of existing debts some of which he defaulted on and had 
county court judgements and at least one attachment of earnings order for.
Bearing this in mind, I think TFS Loans ought fairly and reasonably to have realised Mr Bs 
expenditure information was incorrect - there was nothing budgeted for credit repayments 
despite what the credit check showed about Mr Bs existing creditors. As this is the case, I 
would have expected TFS Loans to have carried out further checks on Mr Bs expenditure to 
ascertain his ability to make his payments. As TFS Loans didnt do this, I dont think that the 
checks it carried out before providing this loan were reasonable and proportionate.
I think if TFS Loans had carried out these further enquiries into Mr Bs expenditure it would 
more likely than not have seen that any further lending was simply unsustainable for him. I 
say this because TFS Loans was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably make 
his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the basis that it, in any event, had 
a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover payments from the guarantor. 
In my view, a further look into Mr Bs circumstances would have shown he was in 
arrangements to pay most of his existing creditors, had an extensive recent history of 
payday loans and his defaulted accounts demonstrated that hed had significant difficulty 
meeting his existing commitments to multiple creditors. 
Mr B may have told TFS Loans this wouldnt be a problem going forward but the available 
evidence suggest this was unlikely to be the case. So I think that TFS Loans ought to have 
realised there was a strong possibility Mr B would either borrow further to repay this loan, or 
worse still default on it in the way hed done on previous commitments. And, in these 
circumstances, I think had proportionate checks been carried out they would have shown 
TFS Loans that Mr B was in no position to sustainably make the repayments to this loan. 
So I dont think it was fair for TFS Loans to have provided this guarantor loan to Mr B. As   
Mr B paid interest and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied 
he lost out because of what TFS Loans did wrong. And TFS Loans needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what TFS Loans need to do to put things right for Mr B
Ive thought about Mr B request for additional compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by TFS Loans conduct during his complaint. I accept TFS Loans 
initially not upholding Mr Bs complaint and then asking for a final decision would have made 
its initial actions seem worse to Mr B. But Im not able to make an award for complaint 
handling as this isnt a regulated activity, or one thats covered by our service. And, in any 
event, TFS Loans merely exercised its right to a final decision as it was entitled to. So overall 
and having considered everything, Im not persuaded a further award is warranted here.  
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges (including any broker and loan administration 
fees) Mr B paid as a result of this loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were originally paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. TFS Loans Limited should 
put things right for Mr B in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman