DRN-3175854
The complaint
Miss A and Mr M have complained about a mortgage they took out with OneSavings Bank 
Plc trading as Kent Reliance. They say the property had fire safety issues which were a 
breach of building regulations, and because they felt unsafe living there they moved house 
incurring an early repayment charge on their mortgage.
What happened
Miss A and Mr M applied for their mortgage with Kent Reliance through a mortgage broker. 
They were buying a new-build flat under a shared ownership scheme.
On the application form they had three options for the mortgage valuation; valuation for 
lending purposes, valuation plus homebuyers report, or valuation plus building survey. They 
selected the first option, which was the valuation for lending purposes. The application form 
also stated the property would have an NHBC guarantee in force.
A mortgage valuation was carried out in July 2018. That noted the property was newly 
constructed and completed and that no repairs were required for mortgage security 
purposes. It said the new build guarantee was provided by Premier Guarantee rather than 
NHBC, valued the property at £400,000, and stated it was recommended as suitable security 
for mortgage purposes.
The mortgage and property purchase completed in September 2018.
Miss A and Mr M say they put their property on the market in September 2020, received an 
offer to buy it in January 2021 and the sale completed in July 2021. Although they bought a 
new property they said they couldnt port their existing mortgage due to the amount they 
needed to borrow for the new purchase.
Miss A and Mr M complained to Kent Reliance in March 2021. They said theyd received an 
offer on their property but were unable to proceed at that time as theyd been made aware 
that the building didnt have a valid EWS1 form. They asked for a copy of the valuation 
report and said the surveyor hadnt done their job properly in 2018, and that it was Kent 
Reliances responsibility as the lender to ensure these checks were carried out.
Kent Reliance provided a copy of the valuation report and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with Kent Reliances response, Miss A and Mr M referred their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said that she didnt think Kent Reliance had 
done anything wrong. She said the valuation was just for lending purposes, it wasnt for 
Miss A and Mr Ms benefit, and that Kent Reliance was entitled to rely on the surveyors 
professional opinion of the property. She also said there was no requirement for Kent 
Reliance to look into the fire safety of the building.
Miss A and Mr M didnt agree. They said the surveyor was instructed by Kent Reliance, and 
they were reliant on the information provided by Kent Reliance to proceed. They said there 
was a breach of building regulations, and someone needs to be held responsible.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Kent Reliance is just the mortgage lender and it relies on other professionals to do their parts 
in the process. This includes the property developer building the property, the inspector who 
certified the build was compliant with building regulations, the mortgage broker giving the 
mortgage advice, the surveyor who undertook the mortgage valuation, and the solicitor who 
carried out the conveyancing.
Kent Reliance doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by Kent Reliance appointing a member of the Royal Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors. 
Kent Reliance isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or 
omission) by the surveyor or the firm they work for. All I can consider against Kent Reliance 
is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and having considered 
everything Im satisfied it did. 
Whilst the borrower usually pays for it, a valuation for lending purposes is just for the 
lenders benefit. The borrower can request that, in addition to the basic valuation, a more 
detailed report, such as a homebuyers report be carried out. A valuation is just so the lender 
can decide whether to lend; if the borrower wants information about whether the property is 
a good buy, a homebuyers report or structural survey will be required, and its for the 
borrower to request  and pay for - that. The valuation contained a warning to Miss A and 
Mr M setting out the reports limitations and advising them not to rely on it. 
The valuation did not identify any fire safety issues with the property, and Im satisfied Kent 
Reliance had no other way of knowing there might be a problem with the property either. The 
property fell within its lending criteria at the time.
Miss A and Mr M want to know who is responsible, saying there was a breach in building 
regulations and that someone is liable. Having considered everything Im satisfied it wasnt 
Kent Reliances responsibility to check that the property Miss A and Mr M were buying was 
compliant with building regulations and it was entitled to rely upon the information it received 
from the professional advisers, such as the surveyor and the solicitor. Its not my place to 
say here who  if anyone  is responsible as this is simply a decision about Kent Reliance, 
not any of the other parties involved.
Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Miss A and Mr M found themselves in. For a 
while they  and their young child - were living in a property that they were struggling to sell, 
and that they werent sure if it would be safe in the event of a fire. I can very much 
understand their frustration and that they want answers, and I wish them the best in that. But 
in terms of this complaint, Im satisfied Kent Reliance wasnt responsible for that situation 
and so I simply cant uphold this complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman