DRN-3066276
The complaint
Mr O is complaining that he wasnt made aware that he was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with 3J Finance Limited (3J) to fund an online education course for his 
son with a supplier that I will call E. Hes also unhappy he wasnt allowed to cancel it. 
What happened
Mr O was keen to arrange some additional tutoring for his son, so he contacted E to enquire 
about it. In June 2019 one of Es representatives visited Mr O at his home, following which 
he entered his son onto a maths and English tuition course, which cost £4,935. He entered 
into a five-year finance agreement with 3J to pay for it.
Around 15 months later, Mr O tried to cancel the course, but he was told he wasnt able to 
do so. Mr O thought this was unfair as he says he was told he could cancel at any time. And 
he didnt think it was fair he had to continue to pay for something his son wasnt using 
anymore.
E responded to say Mr O signed the finance agreement, so it was satisfied he was 
reasonably aware he was taking out a finance agreement. It also said the paperwork he 
signed set out the terms and cancellation rights.
E subsequently went into administration, so Mr O referred his complaint to 3J as the finance 
provider. 3J says it understands E always aimed to do all it could to make clear what was 
being entered into when a family chooses to purchase a programme from them. It says Mr O 
signed the agreement which contained a section which set out he had 14 days to withdraw 
from the finance agreement. And it said the paperwork was emailed to him which also set 
out he had 14 days to withdraw from the agreement.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he was satisfied Mr O had been given misleading 
information about whether he could cancel the agreement or not. He said hed found Mr Os 
testimony plausible and persuasive. He acknowledged the paperwork set out Mr O was 
entering into a finance agreement and what the terms of the contract were. But he didnt 
think Mr O was given an opportunity to review the information before he entered into the 
contract.
The investigator was satisfied Mr O had been misled into entering into the finance 
agreement. He was also persuaded the salesman had told him he could cancel the contract 
at any time. And he didnt think Mr O would have entered into the contract had he known it 
was to run for five years.
So the investigator thought 3J should cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to 
pay. But he thought it could retain what Mr O had paid towards the finance agreement. He 
also said 3J should remove any adverse markers from his credit file.
3J didnt accept the investigators opinion. It didnt think it was fair to rely on one persons 
testimony. It said it was safer to refer to tangible, contemporaneous evidence from when 
Mr O entered into the agreement. It said the documentation Mr O signed clearly sets out the 
terms of the contracts. It said theres a general legal principle that when someone has 
signed a document they are taken to have read and understood it.
3J highlighted the investigator had said the documentation was reasonably clear. It said 
Mr O would have had an opportunity to read through the documentation before signing it and 
could have queried anything he didnt understand. It also said hed been given copies of the 
paperwork after he purchased the course. And it said he had 14 days to reconsider if he 
wanted to cancel it.
3J also said Mr O would have been shown an introductory video which explained he was 
entering into an interest free finance agreement to pay for the course. It maintained Mr O 
was given sufficient information that he was entering into a finance agreement and what his 
cancellation rights were.
As 3J didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I shall now explain why.
Mr O paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, 3J is jointly 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E the 
agent of 3J during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr O entering into the loan 
agreement, starting from when he was first approached by E. But essentially, this means 3J 
is responsible for the acts or omissions of E in relation to the sale of the loan to Mr O. In 
other words, 3J has to stand behind the things E said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the 
sales process.
Mr O is unhappy he wasnt allowed to cancel the course when he got into financial 
difficulties. He says he thought he was paying a monthly subscription towards it and was told 
by the salesman he could cancel at any time. He says he was misled into entering into the 
course and the finance agreement.
Under the terms of the finance, Mr O had the right to withdraw from it within 14 days, but 
after that it was a non-cancellable contract. Mr O maintains he was told he could cancel it at 
any time. He says he wouldnt have entered into the course had he known hed have to 
continue to pay for it for five years. He also says he didnt know he was entering into a 
finance agreement. So I think the key issues I have to think about is whether the course and 
finance agreement were misrepresented to him.
I note 3J say the primary focus should be on the paperwork Mr O signed. I agree that we 
must take the paperwork into consideration  particularly in assessing whether theres a 
breach of contract or not. But I also need to take into account the salesmans responsibilities 
to provide clear information to enable Mr O to make an informed choice before he agreed to 
enter into the course. And I dont think the finance agreement is necessarily always an 
accurate description of the conversations that were had before the contract started.In arranging the loan between Mr O and 3J, E was acting as a credit broker. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit broker to do and it 
does so in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). As the lender, these regulations and 
guidance dont apply to 3J directly. But, I think E was acting on 3Js behalf in arranging the 
finance agreement. So it is something I need to think about in this decision.
CONC 4.2.5 R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations, 
which include explanations of the following things:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee; 
(d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments 
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where applicable 
and depending upon the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the 
customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or under-payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, inhibitions), 
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed; and
(e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and 
when this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise or induce a customer to enter into a 
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the 
precontract information under section 55 of the CCA and the explanations provided under 
CONC 4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker 
should conduct itself, explaining that a broker must: 
(2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances;
(3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the 
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before entering 
into it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles which it expects financial firms (including E 
and 3J) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here:
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.7 Communications with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how E sold the 
product Mr O purchased. I think its likely that the nature of this product and the way it was 
sold is likely to have influenced Mr Os assumptions about how he was going to be paying 
for it.
E marketed the programme as an affordable, online alternative to private English and Maths 
tuition for a child. I think parents will typically pay for private tuition by the hour, although 
tutors may sometimes offer discounts for bulk-bookings. There are a number of online-based 
services available. But in my experience, and based on my further research, these are often 
offered on a subscription basis ranging from one month up to a year. E itself appeared, 
based on statements on its website and on other documents its provided us, to have offered 
a monthly subscription or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime Licence 
model that it sold to Mr O.
 
From what Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence model appears to operate differently as the 
applicant has to make a single large upfront payment and this gives the child access Es 
programme for the duration of their schooling up to GCSE. Due to the substantial size of 
payment required, the applicant often had to take out a loan to cover it, and these loans are 
not cancellable. So this ultimately means that, once a person has signed up for the 
programme and the loan, they cant cancel and are committed to repaying the loan after 14 
days have passed. This seems to me to be an unusual model to adopt for a childs tuition 
due to its lack of flexibility. I dont think its uncommon for children to change tutors for a 
variety of reasons. So I think most parents are likely to value flexibility when considering 
either face to face or online tuition. 
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, when a parent asks to learn more about 
the programme, they would assume that it was being offered on a subscription basis. I think 
its unlikely they would think they were going to be signing up for a long-term commitment 
paid for, up front, by a loan. Because E was offering a very different proposition with long-
term financial implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.
In thinking about this case, Ive taken Mr Os testimony into account and, in particular, 
whether Im persuaded by what hes told us given what subsequently happened and what 
we know about the product he ultimately bought.
Weve spoken to Mr O to understand why he enquired about the course in the first place. 
Hes told us that he wanted extra tuition because son was falling behind with Maths and 
English and he was already paying for extra tutoring. I think its most likely Mr O was only 
looking for a short-term arrangement to help his son catch up. I think its likely he would have 
wanted to have the option to cancel the contract once he was satisfied his son had caught 
up with what hed missed. Im persuaded that he was given some assurances that he could 
cancel at any time. And I dont think its likely he would have entered into a five-year 
contract, unless he was told he could cancel it.
Ive considered 3Js comments that Mr O signed the agreement. But I think the evidence 
here supports that Mr O was only asked to tick a series of boxes on a tablet. I can see Mr O 
electronically signed the following: 
the enrolment application
pre-contract information documentthe finance agreement 
direct debit mandate
affordability document
adequate explanations document
But I can also see that he signed them all in a two minute window. I dont think its likely he 
could have signed them all separately and be given the time to read and understand what 
they said in such a short timeframe. So I think its most likely he ticked separate boxes to 
electronically sign the documents. And Im not persuaded he would have been given a copy 
of the documents to review  or at least time to review them  before he signed them.
However, Ive also considered the customer satisfaction and clarification form Mr O hand-
signed. In this I can see Mr O initialled to confirm he only had 14 days to cancel the course 
and finance agreement. But Mr O has explained the salesman assured him he could cancel 
at any time, so he says he signed the agreement on reliance of this. Mr Os testimony is 
consistent with what weve heard from others in a similar situation and from what Ive seen in 
the training material 3J has provided us that E gave its sales people.
I note 3J has said Mr O was given an opportunity to review the finance agreement before he 
ticked the box to enter into the agreement. But I havent seen anything to support this. I dont 
disagree with 3J that it was Mr Os responsibility to understand what he was entering into. 
But, at the same time, CONC particularly sets out that the salesman had a duty to ensure he 
had enough information about the credit agreement  as I set out above  and about the 
finance in respect to Es responsibility as a credit broker before he agreed to enter into the 
course and finance agreement.
Given what I know about what Mr O wanted to use the training for, Im not persuaded he 
would have entered into the course and agreement if hed know it was a five-year 
commitment. I think Mr O has been consistent in what hes told us about what happened. 
And, Ive ultimately found his testimony to be plausible and persuasive.
As I said, Ive seen some of the training material provided by E to its salespeople, which I 
understand was current at the point Mr O entered into the finance agreement. When 
covering how to explain the financial aspects of the sale, E doesnt refer to the word loan 
anywhere in these training materials. Instead, I think the focus seems to have been on 
setting an affordable monthly payment and, it seems to me, the wording is fashioned in such 
a way as to avoid making the arrangement sound like a loan.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think the salesman did explain everything to 
Mr O as clearly as he should have done. And I think Mr O has lost out as a result of whats 
happened.
That said, Mr O has had a benefit from the course because his son did use it for around 15 
months and his son had completed a reasonable proportion of it. So I think its fair he pays 
for some of the amount payable. I understand Mr O stopped paying the finance around 
December 2020.
Taking everything into account, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that 3J 
waives the outstanding balance on the finance agreement. And it can retain the payments 
Mr O has made to reflect the usage his son has had from the course. As I dont think Mr O 
would have entered into this finance agreement had he been given sufficient information at 
the outset, I dont think it fair that it continues to appear on his credit file. So I think 3J should 
remove any record of the agreement from Mr Os credit file.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require 3J Finance Limited to:
1. Waive the outstanding balance on the finance agreement;
2. remove any record of the agreement from Mr Os credit file; and
3. Arrange with Mr O to return any equipment or learning materials received under the 
contract with E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman