DRN-3721065
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him when he 
could not afford it. 
What happened
Morses has provided some information about the loans and here is a brief loan table:
Reference Date TakenDate 
Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 25/09/2014 09/04/2015 34 £200 £10.00
2 05/03/2015 26/11/2015 34 £150 £7.50
3 09/04/2015 03/12/2015 34 £200 £10.00
4 03/12/2015 11/11/2016 52 £500 £17.50
5 11/11/2016 07/09/2018 52 £500 £17.50
Morses did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. After it had been referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, one of our adjudicators thought that loan 5 ought to be upheld as it 
had got to the stage where the overall pattern of lending meant that Morses ought to have 
realised and ceased lending at loan 5. 
Morses disagreed. It said that it was the second loan at £500, which was higher than others, 
but the evidence indicated that Mr M had repaid the earlier loans without any problems. 
Mr M had declared his weekly income as £280 a week and it said that the loan repayment 
for loan 5 was only 8.7% of his uncommitted and available income to meet the repayments. 
It also said that Mr M had a good repayment history, he had regular contact with the Morses 
agent and never said he had a problem with his finances. He had received one arrears letter.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with Morses. 
So they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 5 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Mr M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 5. I say 
this because:
At this point he had been indebted to Morses for over two years.  
Mr Ms first loan was for £200 and loan 5 was for £500. So the amount Mr M was 
borrowing had more than doubled as well as him being indebted to Morses for a 
significant time. 
At this point Morses ought to have known that Mr M was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates his problems may have been 
worsening.  So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mr Ms indebtedness was unsustainable. 
Leading up to loan 5 Mr M was provided with a new loan a very short time after he 
settled his previous loan. 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Mr M had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended 
period.
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. 
I think that Mr M lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing at loan 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 5 and Morses should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr M at loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr M loan 5.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing for loan 5 means any information recorded about 
them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ms credit file. If Morses 
has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman