DRN-3137021
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how ERGO Reiseversicherung AG dealt with their request for 
a refund of premium in relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to ERGO includes 
reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 18 June 2019, Mr and Mrs H bought an annual travel insurance 
policy, underwritten by ERGO. Mr and Mrs L paid a total of £589.71 for the travel insurance 
cover, which included cover for their declared medical conditions, travel disruption extension 
and insurance premium tax. 
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but essential travel abroad. On 6 May 2020, Mr and Mrs H contacted  ERGO 
about their policy. They said that the contract of insurance was frustrated by the FCDO 
advice on 17 March 2020. At that point, Mr and Mrs H were inclined to prefer suspension of 
the policy.     
ERGO offered Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata credit voucher (amounting to £61.77) towards:
a new 15 month annual policy for the price of 12 months cover or
a deferred annual 12 months policy or
a UK only policy. 
ERGO calculated the value of voucher based on the date Mr and Mrs H contacted it about 
the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with ERGOs response and pursued their complaint. They want a 
refund of part of the premium - not a voucher - calculated from 17 March 2020, the date of 
the FCDO advice. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The 
investigator also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the 
insurer had started to bear risk - for however short a time - the premium paid is not 
returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to 
the risk it covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 18 June 2019 and the 
policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought ERGO should calculate the voucher as a pro-rata refund of the premium paid 
for the basic annual cover and the optional travel disruption extension from 6 May 2020 and 
include the proportionate amount of the insurance premium tax. ERGO recalculated its offer 
and the new amount is £69.28. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator and responded at some length, which I wont 
set out here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs H said: 
They didnt cancel the policy.
The contract was frustrated on 17 March 2020 when the FCDO gave its advice about 
non-essential travel.
They want a refund of the premium calculated as the daily premium for the number of 
days remaining on the policy after 17 March 2020  which they calculate to be 
£149.04. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs H said but it didnt change her view.               
Mr and Mrs H asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified and set out the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs insurance policy with ERGO outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say: 
Cancellation provisions
Your right to cancel the policy
[]
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and Ill explain why: 
I dont agree that the FCDO advice on 17 March 2020 frustrated the contract of 
insurance between ERGO and Mr and Mrs H. Thats because ERGO didnt cease 
being on risk on 17 March 2020  it still covered the risk of a claim under the policy. It 
remained the case that Mr and Mrs H may wish to claim for cancellation of trips or 
may wish cover to continue for essential travel. 
Mr and Mrs H dispute that they cancelled the policy on 6 May 2020, but I dont think 
that ERGO acted unfairly or unreasonably in using that date in calculating the       
pro-rata refund. Thats because on that date, Mr and Mrs H effectively indicated that 
they currently had no further use for the policy. That meant that ERGO was aware 
that Mr and Mrs H didnt wish to claim against the policy. Until that date, ERGO 
remained on risk. Theres no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines nor under 
the terms of the policy for ERGO to offer a refund in the circumstances which arose 
here.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. Mr and Mrs H were covered from the 18 June 2019 for a number of listed 
events insured under the policy and I dont think theyve been treated unfairly in the 
way that ERGO responded to their complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H would prefer a cash refund, rather than a pro-rata 
voucher but ERGO isnt obliged to offer that here. As the investigator explained, 
ERGO entered into a contract with Mr and Mrs H and it didnt cancel the policy. 
Offering a pro-rata voucher rather than a cash refund means that the risk ERGO 
offered to take on is moved to a future date. 
Ive looked at the terms of the pro-rata voucher and I dont think that they are unduly 
restrictive. It would need to be redeemed immediately. In the circumstances of this 
case I think that its fair and reasonable for ERGO to offer a pro-rata voucher on the 
terms that it did.
For the reasons Ive explained I think that the recommendation made by the 
investigator is fair and reasonable in this case.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, ERGO should calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Hs voucher on 
the basis of a pro-rata refund of the basic annual premium, the optional travel disruption 
extension cover and a proportion of the insurance premium tax from 6 May 2020 to            
17 June 2020. That voucher may then be used for one of the options Ive referred to above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint to the extent indicated above. 
ERGO Reiseversicherung AG should now take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman