DRN-3030959
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card account, in 1996. The account was a dual Visa and Mastercard account but both were 
applied for on the same day using the same application form, so Im treating them as one 
application.
Mr M says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
NatWests subsequent offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same arguments theyd previously made. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided NatWest should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI 
to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
Given how long ago the sale was, its not entirely clear whether it was a postal sale or at a 
branch of the bank. However, we do still have access to the agreement Mr M signed when 
he applied for his new credit card(s). I note there was a section on the agreement which 
invited Mr M to choose if he did  or he didnt  want PPI with the new account. He ticked the 
yes option and so this demonstrates to me that he wanted this type of protective cover. 
Ive considered whether this might have been done in error, but the PPI charges then 
appeared on his account statements, as CREDIT CARD REPAYMENT PROTECTOR. If 
hed not given his consent, I think Mr M have been prompted to ask what the charges were 
for. Theres no evidence he did this, so I think its much more likely he agreed to the PPI as 
clearly chosen by him on his form. I think NatWest properly obtained his consent.
I cant say whether or not NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr M as part of an advised 
sale. NatWest said it probably didnt advise him, however, in my view this doesnt matter to 
the outcome. If it did so, it had to check that the PPI was suitable for him - and I think it was.
I say this because Mr M was eligible for the cover and he apparently had only limited other 
means to fall back on in the event of something unexpected happening, such as losing his 
job or being unable to work. Its possible Mr M had some sickness protection with his job, 
although he finds remembering the events from 1996 difficult after so long. However, the PPI 
could have paid 10% off his existing credit balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim, 
and this would have been in addition to any other means he had. Ive seen nothing else that 
would have made claiming for back or mental problems especially onerous for Mr M. He 
hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that would have affected his ability 
to successfully claim, other than an infection from the 1960s which I dont think is relevant. 
So I dont think he was affected by any of the main limitations and exclusions.
I think the policy was suitable for him.
Its obviously possible the information NatWest gave to Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been, particularly around certain limitations and exclusions. But as Ive 
said, he wasnt affected by these and he chose to take it out, so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Nor was the policy too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying 
from the information he was likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable for him and I therefore dont think Mr M would have declined the policy even if 
NatWest could have done a better job at explaining some things.
Mr Ms representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these 
policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
NatWest should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. Ive 
thought about these and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case. But these points 
dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NatWest should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that NatWests offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?NatWest didnt tell Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
NatWest and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
NatWest didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint. In summary they have said Mr M should get back all the money 
he paid for the policy because: NatWest failed to tell Mr M about the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and he should 
receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by NatWest not disclosing the high level 
of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for NatWests failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for NatWest to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr M paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mr M with the policy Ive concluded above he 
would still have taken out if NatWest had done everything it should have done  but with 
lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that NatWests subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ms complaint or make any award for this part.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). I understand this was paid in 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman