DRN-2860370
The complaint
Mr T complains that Starling Bank Limited has refused to remove details of an account from 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr T says he found details of a Starling account on his credit file that he doesnt recall 
opening. He says he tried to close the account but found out the account wasnt fully 
opened. Mr T says his credit file has details of the account and shows two missed payments 
which he says cant be correct. He would like the account closed and all information 
removed from his credit file.
Starling says Mr T started the account opening process and provided a video recording of 
his identity. It says Mr T didnt provide the rest of the required information, but the account 
was opened with an account number. Starling says its not made a mistake by reporting the 
open account to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) but will close the account. It also 
says its terms and conditions say that it will share details with the CRAs.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and provided evidence that two missed payments were 
reported on his credit file. Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended Starling 
remove all information from Mr Ts credit file as this was an incomplete application.
Starling doesnt accept that view and says Mr T could have carried out certain transactions if 
he wished.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to a similar overall view to that of the investigator but for 
slightly different reasons. I dont consider those differences require me to issue a provisional 
decision as the outcome I intend to order is the same as recommended by the investigator.
I dont think there can be any doubt here that Mr T applied for the Starling account and 
started the account opening process as well as providing a video confirming his identity. So, 
it follows that I dont think Starling made a mistake by opening the account and I think it was 
Mr Ts responsibility to have cancelled the account if he didnt want it. Im also satisfied that 
the account terms and conditions make clear that Starling would share account information 
as its required to do so with the CRAs.
Im satisfied that Starling has fairly agreed to close the account.
The issue here is that account wasnt properly opened and the impact on Mr Ts credit file. 
Im satisfied Mr T hadnt completed the opening process. And I dont think it clear how Mr T 
could have used the account as Starling says, unless that process was completed. Im 
satisfied that Mr Ts credit file has two late payments recorded on it about his Starling 
account. Its not clear why that happened or by whom the information was reported. But I 
think that information must be incorrect as the account didnt at any stage have any money 
in it or was fully opened. 
I think there is a risk of unfairness to Mr T by the recording of incorrect adverse information. I 
accept Starling may not have made a mistake or acted unfairly. But I think the only way to 
make sure Mr T is not penalised for something that is not his fault either, is for all details of 
the Starling account be removed from his credit file. I appreciate a credit file ought to be an 
accurate summary of a persons financial position and that the Starling account was partially 
open. But as the account was never used or funded then I cant see any real reason why 
Starling would object to it being removed from Mr Ts credit file as there is a clear risk of 
incorrect information being recorded.
Overall, Im satisfied that the fairest approach would be for Starling to remove all details of 
this account from Mr Ts credit file and if it hasnt already done so, close his account. 
Putting things right
I intend to order Starling to remove all details of the partially opened account from Mr Ts 
credit file, but I make clear I dont find that Starling made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
reporting the information to the CRAs.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Starling Bank Limited to remove all 
details of Mr Ts account from his credit file.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman