DRN-3548828
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Forester Life Limited trading as Foresters (Forester) has applied the 
unemployment terms on his income protection policy claim. Hes also unhappy that Forester 
has deducted premiums from the surplus hed accumulated and that the policy had been 
mis-sold to him.
What happened
Mr D had an income protection policy with Forester since 1992. The underwriter is Forester 
and the policy covers Mr D if he is unable to work due to illness or injury.
In July 2020, Mr D was made redundant by his employer and in September 2020, Mr D said 
he first became ill. He therefore submitted a claim to Foresters on his income protection 
policy. Forester accepted the claim but used the terms that applied to unemployed 
policyholders and there was therefore a benefit limit of £72 per week. Also, Forester said 
Mr D would need to show that he was unable to undertake three or more activities of daily 
living (ADLs) unaided. Forester asked for evidence from Mr Ds GP. 
Mr D thought this was unfair and didnt provide any further information to Forester. He didnt 
agree that the terms applied regarding him being unemployed were fair because shortly 
before making a claim, he was employed and that he was made redundant not through his 
own choice.
Having paid premiums since 1992, Mr D cancelled his direct debit payments in August 2021. 
The premiums were being taken from the surplus that was accumulated on Mr Ds policy 
and, after he was made aware of this, he cancelled his policy.  
Unhappy with the claim assessment, Mr D complained to Forester. It said it didnt think the 
terms had been applied incorrectly and Mr D hadnt been treated unfairly. It confirmed the 
claim hadnt been rejected, but it needed further information before it could do this which 
Mr D hadnt provided.
Mr D brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it. She concluded 
Forester hadnt applied the terms and conditions of the policy incorrectly and that it had 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions when it deducted premiums from the 
surplus accumulated. 
She also concluded that this service wasnt able to look into whether the policy was mis-sold 
as the complaint had been brought out of time. And, there werent any exceptional 
circumstances that shed been made aware of which may have prevented Mr D from 
bringing the complaint to this service sooner. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
Id like to confirm that while Mr D says his income protection plan has been mis-sold, Im 
unable to look into this as the complaint has been made out of time. Our rules regarding time 
limits are set out under DISP 2.8.2 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. 
This says we can only look at complaints about events that happened in the past six years or 
where a consumer only became aware of the cause to complain in the last three years. 
Mr D purchased his policy in 1992 which was over six years ago. So, Ive looked at whether 
he would have reasonably been aware there was cause for concern to complain. I can see 
Mr D was provided with the terms and conditions of the policy in 1992 and he was happy 
with these at the time. This was over three years ago. Mr D hasnt made us aware of any 
exceptional circumstances that may have prevented him from making a complaint sooner so 
I dont think we can look at Mr Ds complaint about the policy being mis-sold as its been 
made out of time. Theres been no dispute in this regard. I therefore wont go on to consider 
this further in my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Claim assessment
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds income protection policy. Section 9  
Evidence of Income says:
9.1 Evidence of income may be waived if the level of benefit does not exceed 
£72.00 per week, or such other sum as may be declared by the Board of 
Management from time to time
9.2 The maximum benefit payable is limited to 75% of your normal income
9.5 In the event that you were not in receipt of income prior to the onset of incapacity 
a limited amount of benefit may be payable at the discretion of the Board of 
Management.
When Mr D submitted his claim, he said hed been made redundant on 31 July 2020 and 
hed been unwell from 5 September 2020. As part of his claim, Mr D also provided a copy of 
his seafarer medical certificate and a note from his GP to show he was signed off with back 
pain from 20 October 2020 to 20 November 2020.
Ive considered Mr Ds comments that the claim ought not to be assessed as him being 
unemployed. Ive also considered the evidence hes provided and the fact that he was made 
redundant on 31 July 2020. So, by the time he made his claim, Mr D was unemployed. 
With that in mind, I cant see how Forester would assess the claim other than Mr D being 
unemployed  he wasnt in paid employment when he submitted his claim. I appreciate Mr D 
says he wasnt unemployed through his own choice. But, while I have every empathy in the 
situation Mr D has found himself in and that it wasnt his choice, Forester has to assess a 
claim based on the facts and the circumstances at the time of the claim. Mr D was 
unemployed at the time he submitted his claim and although I understand that would potentially lead to a lower benefit amount, that would be in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Its not necessarily relevant in the context of assessing the claim to know the 
reasons why Mr D was unemployed, but simply that he was. Mr D would not be able to 
evidence income so the terms and conditions are clear that a limited amount of benefit would 
be payable. Im not persuaded that Forester ought to assess the claim in any other way 
except to take into account that Mr D was unemployed. Mr D wasnt in occupation at the time 
he made the claim and therefore there would be no occupation against which Forester could 
assess the claim. Any payment of the limited amount would also be at the discretion of the 
Board of Management or Directors.
Forester hasnt rejected the claim but has asked for further information from Mr D regarding 
what daily duties hes able to perform. Ive considered that Mr D thinks this is unfair. So, Ive 
looked at what the terms and conditions of the policy say.
The Memorandum and Rules of Tunbridge Wells Equitable Friendly Society Limited under 
Part C  Payment of Sickness Benefit say:
In respect of a member not normally and regularly engaged in a remunerative 
occupation or occupations immediately prior to the commencement of the injury, 
illness or disease giving rise to the claim, incapacity shall mean the permanent 
confinement of the member to his normal place of residence, or to a hospital or other 
recognised medical establishment, or to such other such premises as may be agreed 
by the board, or the total inability to perform unaided three or more of the following 
activities: - dressing and undressing; washing and bathing; eating and drinking; 
preparing and cooking food; general household duties such as cleaning and 
laundering clothes; climbing stairs; shopping.
Additionally, notes were included along with the claim form that Mr D was provided to 
complete, on page 6, it says:
4. Definition of incapacity

4.3 For members not normally in paid work immediately before it starts, incapacity 
means that, because of injury, illness or disease, you are confined to hospital or 
similar, or are
totally unable to perform, without help or artificial aids, 3 or more of the following 
activities: dressing and undressing; washing and bathing; eating and drinking; 
preparing and cooking food; general household duties; shopping.

And on page 7, under the sub-heading Amount of benefit payable, it says:

7.5 If you are not normally in paid work when your incapacity starts, the maximum 
amount of benefit we will pay is decided by the Board of Directors from time to time. 
The maximum is currently £72 a week under the Income Protection + plan (£70 a 
week under the PHI+ plan) and applies regardless of the number of plans you hold.

And, further updated terms and conditions were provided by both Forester and Mr D which 
Ive carefully considered. These also confirm that if an incapacity claim is being made and 
there is no occupation to assess the claim against, the claimants ability to perform daily duties would be taken into account and in such situations, the maximum benefit payable 
would be £72 per week.
Having taken everything into account, I understand that Mr D was made redundant and that 
wasnt through his own choice. However, its also not Foresters responsibility to make that 
right for Mr D. Forester has assessed his claim against the terms and conditions of his 
income protection policy and Im not persuaded that, in doing so, Forester have acted 
incorrectly in asking Mr D for further information regarding his incapacity and his ability to 
perform daily activities. As I have confirmed above, Forester hasnt rejected Mr Ds claim 
and the fact that its asked for this information before it can agree to pay any amount to 
Mr D, its not unfair or unreasonable for additional evidence from his GP to be requested. 
Premiums deducted from the surplus
I understand Mr D is unhappy that premiums were deducted from the surplus amount 
accumulated on his policy. Ive looked at what the terms and conditions say. 
Under Section 2  Premiums, it says
2.4 Arrears outstanding at the end of each calendar year will be deducted from your 
Surplus Account.
I can see Mr D cancelled his direct debit when he was no longer happy with his income 
protection policy. But because he cancelled his direct debit, the premium would still need to 
be taken and, in this case, it was taken from the surplus that was accumulated. As soon as 
Mr D became aware of this, he cancelled his policy. Its clear from the above term that the 
premium would be taken from the surplus as the payment agreed to be taken by direct debit 
by Mr D had been cancelled and therefore the policy was in arrears. I therefore dont think it 
was unfair or unreasonable that the premium was deducted from the surplus by Forester. 
Conclusion
Having considered all the available evidence, overall, Im not persuaded that Forester has 
acted outside of whats expected under the terms and conditions of the policy. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Mr D has been treated unfairly or unreasonably. 
It follows that I dont require Forester to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Forester Life Limited 
trading as Foresters. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman