DRN-3493320
The complaint
Ms L complained that Society of Lloyd's declined her travel insurance curtailment claim. My 
references to Lloyds include its agents.
What happened
In 2018 Ms L booked a trip with an adventure sailing travel provider and was due to travel 
abroad from early January 2020 to 30 April 2020. In 2019 Ms L bought an annual travel 
insurance policy, Yachtsmans Gold Topsail Insurance, to cover from 24 August 2019 to 
23 August 2020. Lloyds was the insurer.
Ms L departed on her trip and completed the first part of the trip as planned. However, on 
11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad.
During the second part of Ms Ls trip, on 19 March 2020, the trip organiser suspended the 
trip as countries the boats were due to visit were closing their borders and ports in response 
to Covid-19. The boat Ms L was on went into port at a south pacific island. Ms L says she 
and the rest of the crew had to stay on the boat, apart from one hour of exercise a day, until 
repatriation flights were arranged. On 23 March 2020 the FCDO advised all British travellers 
to return from abroad immediately. To return to the UK Ms L took a flight on 7 April to a 
European country and on 10 April 2020 returned to the UK. The travel provider offered a 
refund for 31% of the original trip cost.
Ms L submitted an insurance claim for the additional travel and accommodation costs she 
paid to return to the UK and 50% of the costs for the second part of the trip as she said shed 
only done 39 of the 80 days of the trip.
Lloyds declined the claim saying the reason the trip was curtailed (cut short) wasnt covered 
by the policy terms. It also noted that the trip organiser had mentioned the possibility of the 
trip recommencing later in 2020 and Ms L hadnt shown the costs claimed couldnt be 
recovered elsewhere.
Ms L complained to us. She said the policy covered curtailment due to being quarantined 
and shed been quarantined when she had stay on the boat at the island while waiting for 
her new return flight.
In the meantime Ms L received a refund for some of the costs she claimed through her travel 
providers trade association as the travel provider had become insolvent. Ms L said the 
payment by the association didnt cover all the costs shed claimed on the policy.
Our investigator said Lloyds unfairly declined the claim. As the policy specifically excluded 
claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice our investigator said Ms L wouldnt 
have been covered if shed continued with their trip but under the policy terms she wasnt 
covered for curtailing it either. She didnt think the exclusion had been highlighted to Ms L 
and left Ms L in an unfair position. She recommended Lloyds reassess the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Lloyds disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said the FCDO exclusion 
wouldnt have applied to Ms Ls circumstances as she was already abroad when the FCDO 
advice changed. Also an exclusion for claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice 
was very common in travel insurance policies and shouldnt be considered to be a significant 
exclusion.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold this complaint but for a different 
reason than our investigator recommended an uphold. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Ms Ls policy and the circumstances of her claim, in deciding whether Lloyds has  
treated her fairly.
Ive noted Lloyds submissions in relation to the FCDO exclusion in this case. However, 
I dont think I need to make a finding on the points Lloyds raises about that exclusion as 
I currently find that Miss Ls claim should be reassessed for another reason, which Ill 
explain.
The Cancellation and disruption section of the policy provides cover for specified costs for a 
range of events, including curtailment, if one of the listed specified occurrences happens. 
Those occurrences include a policyholders quarantine.
The trip organisers say they stopped the trip due to the international response to the Covid-
19 virus pandemic. Lloyds hasnt disputed that the relevant borders and ports were closed 
to Ms Ls boat, and generally, due to relevant government/s restrictions in response to 
Covid-19. The port where Ms L boat was sent was just for her to disembark only to get her 
repatriation flight. She had to wait for the flight to be arranged. Lloyds also hasnt disputed 
what Ms L says about local regulations allowing her one hours exercise off the boat each 
day within the confines of the marina, where she had to carry a permit stating the restrictions 
she was under and needed to have the date and time for each exercise day signed for.
Ms Ls point is that she was in effect in quarantine which meant she couldnt continue her trip 
as planned. Lloyds disagrees with Ms Ls interpretation, it says she hadnt been placed in 
formal quarantine where she was unable to go anywhere for a period of time.
Ive considered whether Ms L could be said to have been quarantined. Theres no policy 
definition of quarantine and in those circumstances we generally look to apply the common 
meaning and understanding of a word, as well as taking into account the context in which 
the word is used within the policy. Ive looked at various dictionary definitions of quarantine 
which include:
a period of isolation or restrictions on movements intended to prevent the spread of 
disease.
a general period of time in which people are not allowed to leave their homes or 
travel freely, so that they do not catch or spread a disease.
a state of enforced isolation.Following the imposition of the regulations Ms L was held on board the boat and wasnt 
allowed to follow her original schedule. It appears this was because of fears that the crew 
and passengers had or may have had Covid-19 and they were isolated on board the boat in 
order to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The trip organisers website at the time said 
crew/passengers had to repatriate to avoid addition strain on local medical services. 
Ultimately, Ms L was only permitted to finally disembark so she could get her repatriation 
flight. While waiting for the flight date she was only allowed closely managed and restricted 
one hours exercise a day in the confined area of the marina. So I think that in line with the 
ordinary and natural meaning of the word quarantine and a reasonable persons view, Ms L 
was in quarantine. And that was the reason her trip had to be curtailed.
I dont dispute that relevant government/s had imposed border restrictions which affected the 
boats itinerary. But Ive considered the wider impact these restrictions had on Ms L and 
what I think is fair and reasonable in these specific circumstances. In my view, the effect of 
the border restrictions was that Ms L was held on the boat, unable to leave apart from the 
restricted one hour exercise a day, to prevent the spread of Covid-19. She was only able to 
permanently leave the boat for her repatriation flight, which meant the potential risk of her 
spreading Covid-19 could be mitigated.
Taking all of the above into account it seems most likely to me that the reason for cutting the 
trip short was because there were concerns that Ms L and the other crew/passengers would 
be carrying and spreading the infection if they continued the trip as planned. So the 
requirement for Ms L to stay on board the boat and then travel home early were linked to 
controlling the spread of Covid-19, and I think its reasonable to conclude that this was a 
form of quarantine.
On this basis I currently find that Ms Ls claim is covered by the quarantine provision in the 
Cancellation and disruption section of the policy. The fair and reasonable outcome is for 
Lloyds to reassess her claim in line with the cover provided under the Cancellation and 
disruption section of the policy and the remaining policy terms and conditions.
As to the other points Lloyds initially raised to decline the claim, Ive seen no evidence that 
the trip organiser did recommence the trip as they had originally hoped and Ms Ls provided 
evidence that she has been able to obtain some costs through the travel providers trade 
association.
If the claim is payable then under the policy terms Lloyds can reasonably take into account 
the money Ms L has recovered for the costs claimed.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds and Ms L accepted my provisional decision. Ms L said she looked forward to 
receiving the balance of her claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both parties accepted my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my mind. For the 
reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings Im satisfied that Ms Ls 
claim is covered by the quarantine provision in the Cancellation and disruption section of 
the policy and the fair and reasonable outcome is for Lloyds to reassess her claim in line 
with the cover provided under the Cancellation and disruption section of the policy and the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
I note Ms Ls comment that she looks forward to receiving the balance of her claim. My 
direction is for Lloyds to reassess her claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. Im not making an award of financial compensation or telling Lloyds what 
costs, if any, it must pay. If once Lloyds has reassessed the claim it thinks there are costs 
not covered it will explain its decision to Ms L and if she disagrees then she can make a 
separate complaint.
Putting things right
Lloyds must reassess Ms Ls claim in line with the cover provided under the Cancellation 
and disruption section of the policy and the remaining policy terms and conditions.
If the claim is payable then under the policy terms Lloyds can reasonably take into account 
the money Ms L has recovered for the costs claimed.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint.
I require Society of Lloyd's to reassess Ms Ls claim in line with the cover provided under the 
Cancellation and disruption section of the policy and the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman