DRN-3688585
The complaint
Mr L complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) and their failure to provide 
him with a new satellite TV box, in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy 
he held with them. Mr L is also unhappy with the way he was spoken to when he queried this 
and feels as though he was discriminated against due to his ongoing health condition.
What happened
In 2019, Mr L took out a Sky Protect insurance policy, which was underwritten by DGI. This 
policy insured several electrical items in Mr Ls property, including his satellite TV box. 
In early 2022, Mr L called DGI to request a box swap, as detailed within the terms and 
conditions of the policy he held. But DGI declined this request, explaining that Mr L was 
already in receipt of the latest version of the box and so, didnt qualify for a box swap under 
the policy. Mr L disputed this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr L felt DGI were unfair to refuse the box swap. He thought there was a newer version of 
the box available which would have better specifications, due to the advancement of 
technology over a period of time. So, he thought he was entitled to ask for a newer box, in 
line with the terms of the policy he held. Mr L was also unhappy with the way he was spoken 
to regarding his complaint and, felt hed been discriminated against due to his ongoing 
health condition. So, he wanted to be compensated for this.
DGI responded to Mr Ls complaint and upheld it in part. They thought theyd acted fairly 
when declining the box swap, as Mr L had received the latest version of the box when it was 
replaced following damage to the original box he had. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more regarding this. But they did agree that the way Mr L had been spoken to on 8 
March was unreasonable and they apologised, explaining the appropriate feedback had 
been given to the call handler. They also offered Mr L £10 to recognise the wait times he 
experienced when calling them. Mr L remained unhappy with this response, so he referred 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought DGI had acted within 
the terms of the policy Mr L held when not replacing his box, as he already had the latest 
version available. So, they didnt think DGI acted unfairly in relation to this. But they thought 
calls on 8 and 14 March couldve been handled better by DGI and they understood why Mr L 
wouldve been left upset. So, they thought DGI should pay Mr L £100 to recognise this 
upset.
DGI accepted this recommendation. But Mr L didnt. He didnt think the £100 was enough to 
compensate him for what he felt was discrimination against him due to his health condition. 
And he maintained his belief that an upgraded version of the box he held was available and 
so, should be supplied to him by DGI under the terms of the policy he held. As Mr L didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Im aware in his correspondence to our service after 
our investigators initial view, Mr L has expressed concerns about the box swap no longer 
being offered in his updated policy documents. I cant see any evidence to show Mr L has 
raised his concerns about this with DGI, or that theyve been given the relevant time frames 
to issue a response. So, this issue isnt within our services jurisdiction to consider at this 
time and isnt something Ive commented on further. Mr L will need to raise this issue 
separately.
What I have considered are the issues Mr L has raised with DGI regarding his request to 
swap his satellite TV box, and the service DGI provided when they handled this request. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr L held at the time of his request. And this 
policy explains that, when a customer has had a Sky Protect policy such as Mr Ls for three 
years, they are able to call DGI to receive the latest Sky box (for your subscription) from Sky 
at no additional charge. This is because for a satellite box to qualify for cover under the 
policy, it needs to be under three years old/
Ive seen that at the time of Mr Ls request, hed held a policy for three years and so, I think 
he was able to make this request.
But crucially, the policy goes on to explain that Note, Sky will only provide you with the 
latest box for the Sky subscription package that you pay for. This means for example that if 
you currently have a 1TB box, you will receive a 1TB box. However, you will get the latest 
version of this box type.
I recognise Mr L doesnt think he has the latest version and so, this is what hes asking for. 
And hes provided screenshots of two different 2 TB boxes available. But crucially, they are 
boxes for two different subscriptions. The one box is for an Ultra High Definition (UHD) 
subscription, which Mr L doesnt have. So, while this may have certain improved capabilities, 
I dont think Mr L was entitled to this box under the terms of the policy, as the term clearly 
states the box provided will only be the latest box for the subscription package he had.
And Im satisfied Mr L had the latest box for this subscription, as hed received a new 
standard subscription 2 TB box through the satellite box provider directly, after his original 
box had been damaged. This box was received in February 2022, around the same time he 
asked DGI to provide him with a new box under the terms of his policy, and so, Im satisfied 
it wouldve been the latest model available. And that it was under three years old, so 
qualified to be covered under the insurance policy.
So, I dont think I can say DGI have acted unfairly when not providing Mr L with a new box, 
as it wouldve been the same box, with the same specification, he already held. And while I 
recognise technology can advance and improve, I dont think a box received a month after a new one is likely to have any improvements or changes. And DGI have confirmed this is the 
case. And because of this, I dont think DGI need to do anything more for this aspect of the 
complaint.
Ive then thought about the service DGI provided when they handled Mr Ls request for a box 
swap. And Ive listened to all of the calls between Mr L and DGI. While most of these calls 
were handled fairly, as Id expect, I do think that on two occasions the call handlers acted 
unreasonably towards Mr L.  On both calls, the call handlers became clearly frustrated 
during the conversation and I think the tone they used with Mr L was unreasonable and 
insensitive. So, as I think DGI acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what DGI should do to 
put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator recommended DGI pay Mr L £100 to recognise the upset he was caused. 
And I note DGI accepted this recommendation. So, I think DGI have accepted their error 
here and I dont intend to discuss this in any further detail. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
think a fair compensatory offer should be.
I recognise Mr L feels as though this level of service evidenced DGI discriminating against 
him due to his health condition, specifically when the call handler asked if they could speak 
to a carer or someone else on Mr Ls behalf. 
I dont dispute the upset this wouldve caused Mr L. I understand the seriousness of Mr Ls 
health condition and the impact it may have on him in situations such as the one hes 
complained about. And I take on board his view that it should be up to him to suggest this 
course of action. 
But I also note this suggestion was only made once to Mr L. And although the tone used 
wasnt appropriate, I do think the suggestion was made in an attempt to find a solution to the 
clear misunderstanding between the handler and Mr L regarding the box replacement. So, I 
dont think the handler in any way purposefully discriminated against Mr L.
So, considering all of the above, I think the £100 recommended by our investigator is a fair 
offer, that falls in line with the payment I wouldve directed had it not already been made. I 
think it recognises the failures of the call handlers, and the fact DGIs service fell below the 
service Id expect in two separate calls. But I also think it takes into consideration the fact 
that, on the second call, the handler made the suggestion in what I believe to be good faith 
in an attempt to help clarify the situation. Thats not to say I dont understand the offence 
caused to Mr L, nor am I intending to discredit the upset he felt at the time. So, I think DGI 
should pay Mr L a compensatory amount of £100.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint about Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr L £100 to recognise the upset he was caused due to the service they 
provided to him on the phone calls mentioned above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Josh HaskeyOmbudsman