DRN-3469372
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aldermore Bank Plc was unfair and misleading about being able to take 
out additional borrowing on his consumer buy to let mortgage. He asks that the period during 
which an early repayment charge (ERC) applies is reduced and for compensation.
What happened
Mr W took out a consumer buy to let mortgage with Aldermore in 2019. He chose a five-year 
fixed interest rate product. This included an ERC payable if the mortgage is repaid. It also 
allowed further borrowing.
In 2021 Mr W applied for further borrowing via a broker. Aldermore said system limitations 
meant it couldnt make a further advance. Mr W would have to re-mortgage for the new 
amount. Although Aldermore waived the ERC, Mr W says he had to take out a new product, 
meaning he paid a product fee and is tied into Aldermore for another five years.
Our investigator said that Aldermores process for additional borrowing is an internal re-
mortgage. It explained this to Mr W before he decided to go ahead. 
Mr W didnt agree. He says Aldermores terms are unfair as his ability to move to another 
lender without paying the ERC is restricted for longer. He says its a breach of good faith, 
consumer protection legislation and mortgage regulations for a lender to mix and match re-
mortgaging with further advances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W took out a consumer buy to let mortgage of £180,000 on an interest only basis with 
Aldermore. In 2021 he asked for additional borrowing of £30,000. He says he urgently 
needed the additional borrowing. While a broker applied for the mortgage and additional 
borrowing on behalf of Mr W, this broker was in fact Mr W himself. 
Aldermore offered Mr W the additional borrowing. Mr Ws complaint is that the terms on 
which he had to take out the additional borrowing were unfair, in that:
He had to follow a re-mortgage process and take out a new product for the whole loan 
amount. 
The new product had an interest rate of 3.78% (as compared to his previous product rate 
of 3.48%). He paid a product fee of about £3,000.
The only product offered by Aldermore was a five-year fixed rate product. An ERC now 
applies if Mr W repays the mortgage within for five years of mid-2021. 
Aldermore says its systems dont allow it to offer a further advance alongside the original 
loan. Aldermore says its process for additional borrowing is an internal re-mortgage. 
Mr W says many lenders offer additional borrowing as a further advance, and this is what he 
expected to happen. 
Mr W says when he took out the mortgage, the mortgage offer said he could take out 
additional borrowing. He says Aldermores terms and conditions define additional borrowing 
as any further advance made after the original borrowing, as set out in an offer for the 
additional borrowing. Mr W also sent a screen shot from Aldermores website about eligibility 
criteria for additional borrowing to supports what he says. I should say though that the 
mortgage offer also says further borrowing isnt guaranteed and is subject to lending policy 
at the time. And just because theres a definition in the terms and conditions doesnt mean 
Aldermore has to offer Mr W additional borrowing in this way  or at all. 
Mr W says Aldermores re-mortgage process left him worse off than he would have been 
with the original loan alongside a further advance. I understand the point Mr W makes. If 
hed kept the original loan and taken out a further advance, hed have kept his original 
product for the remaining three years, at least for the original loan. Hed have kept the lower 
interest rate and paid a lower product fee. 
Mr Ws application was made via an intermediary. Aldermore says an intermediary wouldnt 
see any references to additional borrowing in its sourcing system/intermediary guide. It says 
it would expect an intermediary to get in touch to ask if additional borrowing is possible, and 
what products would be available. The screen shot Mr W sent us says please note  
additional borrowing is only available via our direct mortgage advisers. 
I asked Aldermore for evidence of the products available in June 2021. Its buy to let range 
included a two-year fixed rate at 3.38%. Mr W says his calculations showed he didnt meet 
affordability for a two-year product for the amount he wanted to borrow. He applied for a five-
year product. Im sorry that Mr W didnt meet affordability criteria for a two-year product, but I 
dont think this was due to an error by Aldermore. I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Aldermore to waive the ERC Mr W agreed to when he took out a five year product.
Aldermore says it doesnt charge product fees for additional borrowing for customers that 
apply to it directly (that is, not through a broker). It provided evidence to support this. It says 
it doesnt waive fees for intermediary business. 
If Mr W had applied directly he might have been offered additional borrowing on terms that 
he preferred. However, he applied as an intermediary. This was despite Aldermores website 
saying additional borrowing was only available directly, and not being able to see what he 
wanted on the intermediary system. 
Aldermore told Mr W how his application would be processed. I think it was clear what the 
costs and consequences of the re-mortgage would be, and Mr W decided to go ahead on 
that basis. 
Mr W also complained that Aldermore tried to charge an ERC and took a direct debit 
payment after the loan was repaid.
Aldermore says when Mr Ws solicitor asked for a redemption statement they didnt say he 
was re-mortgaging with Aldermore. As a result, it issued a redemption statement with the 
ERC. Once told about the error, it issued a redemption statement without the ERC. I think 
this was a mis-understanding that was promptly corrected.
I dont think Aldermore made an error when it sent a direct debit request for Mr Ws monthly payment. Its usual for lenders to continue to request direct debit payments until a mortgage 
is redeemed. Aldermore says it was too late to cancel the request once the redemption 
funds were received. It returned the payment, as Id expect it to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman