DRN-1723783
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his credit card account without telling him it 
was doing so.
What happened
Mr S had an HSBC credit card which he hadnt used for some time. In or about July 2019 
HSBC took the decision to close credit card accounts which werent being used  or to 
encourage customers to use them more. It says it contacted around 270,000 of its credit 
card customers, including Mr S, to tell them it would be closing their accounts but that, if they 
didnt want their accounts to be closed, they should use their card within the 60 day notice 
period. 
Mr S didnt use his card within that period and his account was closed in October 2019. He 
complained to HSBC, saying he hadnt received the notice which HSBC said it sent in July 
2019. HSBC didnt feel it had done anything wrong and Mr S referred the matter to this 
service. One of our investigators considered what had happened but agreed that HSBC had 
treated him unfairly. Mr S asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the credit card account included the following:
At least 30 days before we make any change we will tell you about the change and how it 
will affect you. We will do this by including a message in your monthly statement, by writing 
to or emailing you separately or by sending you a mobile message or message using any 
secure storage facility we provide online. [page 6, third paragraph]
The agreement does not have a fixed end date but you and we can end it as explained 
below. [page 6, fifth paragraph]
 We can end the agreement by giving you two months notice in writing. In either case, 
you (and any additional cardholder) must stop using the card  [page 13, clause 10.1]
Im satisfied therefore that HSBC was contractually entitled to end its agreement with Mr S, 
as long as it gave proper notice that it was doing so. It didnt need a specific reason. 
I must therefore consider whether HSBC gave proper notice that it was closing the account. 
That is, did it give Mr S two months notice. It could give notice in a number of ways, 
including by email. Its records show that it sent Mr S an email on 26 July 2019 and that the 
email address it had for him at the time was the correct one. I think it more likely than not 
therefore that it was sent. Mr S says he didnt receive it. Thats possible, of course, and the 
account terms didnt address that possibility as they might have done. It doesnt appear 
however that HSBC received any notification that the email hadnt been delivered and so I 
think it more likely than not that it was. I accept though that Mr S believed his account was 
still open. 
I note however that, once a customer received notice of closure, clause 10.1 of the account 
terms said they could no longer use the card. Mr S says he found out in November 2019 that 
his account had been closed. He hadnt however attempted to use his card in the meantime, 
and so it doesnt appear that he was directly affected by not knowing about the account 
closure until later.
Mr S says that the bank didnt communicate its decision to close the account fairly. It did 
however communicate that decision in line with the agreed terms; in my view that was fair, 
and there was no need to repeat the notice. 
In summary, HSBCs decision to close Mr Ss account was one that it was entitled to make in 
the legitimate exercise of its commercial judgment. It did so in line with the account terms. 
Mr S has said that he expects HSBC to put things right as it says it will if things go wrong. 
But Im afraid I dont share his view that anything has gone wrong here, for the reasons Ive 
explained.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank PLC to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman