DRN-3425309
The complaint
Mrs V complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined the terminal 
illness claim made for her husband Mr V under their joint life policy, and unfairly avoided the 
policy (cancelled it as if it had never existed). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs V had an existing joint life and critical illness policy. But in September 2020 they 
applied for a new joint life policy with Aviva, through an independent financial adviser (IFA). 
The application asked a series of health questions. Mr V said hed been treated for a hernia, 
so Aviva asked Mr Vs GP for a medical report. After considering this report, Aviva offered 
Mr and Mrs V a policy. A new level term joint life policy started on 4 December 2020, with a 
sum assured of £111,015. The same day, Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs V separately to ask 
them to check their application answers were still correct. Aviva also made this letter 
available online.
Sadly, in July 2021 Mr V was diagnosed with tonsil and tongue cancer. He made a terminal 
illness claim, and Aviva considered medical evidence from his doctors. But Aviva declined 
the claim, avoided the policy, and refunded the premiums paid. Because it thought Mr V had 
made a careless misrepresentation in his policy application by incorrectly answering no 
when asked about lumps and whether he was experiencing anything he might go to his 
doctor about. Aviva said the symptoms of fever, weakness, loss of appetite and neck 
swelling Mr V consulted his doctor about in late November and early December 2020 hadnt 
completely resolved before the policy started. And had it known this, it would have 
postponed offering cover. And since Mr V saw his doctor about this again in June 2021 and 
went on to be diagnosed with cancer, there wasnt a time when it would have offered cover. 
Mr and Mrs V complained to Aviva, saying they wouldnt have changed to this new policy in 
2020 if they were concerned about Mr Vs health, and cover didnt start until 4 December 
2020. They suggested Mr V hadnt had a lump  they said English wasnt his first language 
so in trying to explain his swollen neck to the doctor, hed said it felt like he had a lump in his 
neck. They said Mr V was diagnosed with an infection and prescribed antibiotics - the 
swelling went down and blood tests didnt show anything of concern. And doctors werent 
concerned until Mr V went back to the doctor in June 2021 because of a swollen neck and a 
new symptom of difficulty swallowing. So Mr V couldnt have told Aviva about a lump as it 
was resolved with antibiotics and there were no further concerns. 
Aviva didnt change its position, so Mr and Mrs V brought their complaint to our Service. 
They added that they were grieving when they applied for this policy, as their son had 
suddenly passed away. That they didnt receive any letters asking them to check their 
application. And that Aviva had obtained a medical report for Mr V during the application 
process. 
Our Investigator said the medical evidence showed there had been a change in Mr Vs 
health between him completing the application and the policy starting. So she thought it was 
reasonable for Aviva to say Mr V hadnt taken reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when it asked him to check his application answers were still correct on 
4 December 2021. And that it was fair for Aviva to decline the claim, avoid the policy and 
refund the policy premiums. 
Mrs V asked for this complaint to be considered again. She said Mr V had sadly now passed 
away. And she asked for evidence that Aviva had asked Mr V to check his application 
answers were still correct, which our Investigator provided. 
As Mrs V asked for this complaint to be considered again, it came to me for a decision. 
Mrs V provided a final comment. She thought Aviva would still have given Mr V a policy even 
if hed answered yes to the lump question, because Aviva would have postponed his 
application for some weeks while that was resolved. And when Aviva checked back, Mr Vs 
doctor would have confirmed there was nothing of concern. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to say how sorry I am to learn of Mr V passing away, and of Mr and Mrs Vs son 
passing away too. I offer Mrs V my sincerest condolences, and I realise this complaint was 
made under already very upsetting and difficult circumstances. While I dont wish to cause 
Mrs V any further distress, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Mr V failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
answering the policy application questions. Its categorised this as a careless 
misrepresentation.  To think about whether this was a reasonable conclusion for Aviva to 
reach, Ive considered what Mr V was asked, the answers he gave, and the medical 
evidence Ive been provided with.
In the policy application Mr V was asked: 
Within the last four years have you had, or have you taken medication for, or been 
advised to take medication or have treatment for:
A lump, growth, polyp or tumour of any kind, or a mole or freckle that has bled, itched, 
become painful, changed colour or increased in size, regardless of whether or not you 
have consulted a doctor?
Apart from anything you've already told us about:
Are you currently experiencing anything that you might go to your doctor about?I think these two questions are clear. Mr V answered no when he applied for the policy in 
September 2020. The medical evidence Ive been provided with doesnt show Mr V 
answered these questions incorrectly at that time. 
However, Mr Vs medical situation changed quite soon after. On 26 November 2020 he 
sought medical advice because he had a fever, weakness, loss of appetite and neck 
swelling  the medical record says, swelling developed below ear on 1 side 2 mornings ago, 
not painful. Mr V was prescribed antibiotics and tested negative for Covid-19. 
On 5 December 2020, Mr V again sought medical advice. The medical record says that 
twelve days ago Mr V woke up with swelling [right] side of neck. Temp and tired. Saw a 
Dr Given [antibiotics]. Feels much better. No fever now. Went to dentist to get a check up. 
Still has golf ball sized lump [right] side of neck  going down. Was tennis all sized 
Reassuring lump is going down  likely reactive. Mr V was referred for blood tests, and his 
medical records say that at his next discussion with his GP, his blood test results were ok.
I know Mrs V suggests Mr V had a swollen neck, not a lump. But the medical records say 
there was a lump, with the one dated 5 December 2020 specifically saying the lump had 
been tennis ball sized and had reduced to golf ball sized. Based on this, Im persuaded that 
Mr V developed a lump in late November 2020. And Im persuaded this lump didnt simply 
resolved with antibiotics, as Mrs V also suggests. I acknowledge the medical records show 
the lump reduced and Mr Vs blood tests showed nothing of concern. But the lump was still a 
significant size (golf ball sized). 
At the start of January 2021 Mr V was diagnosed with Covid-19 and hospitalised for this for 
several days. And in April 2021 Mr V went back to his doctor with symptoms of cough, throat 
pain on swallowing, and pain in his right ear. By 15 June 2021 Mr V was referred for 
suspected cancer, with his medical records describing a clearly seen large hard 
lumpapprox 10x5cm came on acutely and then halved in size with [antibiotics] last 
December but has got bigger since then. Mr V was then diagnosed with tongue and tonsil 
cancer in July 2021. 
So based on the medical evidence, Im not persuaded the lump was resolved at any point 
after Mr V first consulted a doctor about it on 26 November 2020. And while Mr V and his 
doctor may not have been too concerned about it at that time, Mr V still had this lump when 
Aviva wrote to Mr V on 4 December 2020 to ask if his application answers had changed. 
Aviva has provided a copy of this letter and a system record to show it was both posted to 
Mr V and made available to him online. So Im satisfied Aviva sent this letter to Mr V. It 
included a copy of the application questions and the answers Mr V had given, and asked 
Mr V to check his application details were still correct. Aviva said Please check all the 
information shown, especially any given on your behalf, and let us know if anything isnt 
correct. Please pay particular attention to the health and lifestyle information. Youll need to 
tell us if any of these details changed in the time between completing your initial application 
and when we confirmed cover will start. Its important all the information shown here is 
correct. If anythings wrong, we may amend, or cancel the policy, or we may not pay a 
claim. Ive not seen anything to make me think Mr V contacted Aviva to update his answers.
For these reasons, Im satisfied Aviva was reasonable to conclude Mr V didnt take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation here.
And Im satisfied this misrepresentation made a difference. Thats because Aviva has 
provided its underwriting criteria and comments from one of its underwriters. This shows that 
if Mr V had correctly answered the questions about a lump and whether he was currently 
experiencing anything he might go to his doctor about, then Aviva would have postponed offering cover until a definite diagnosis had been established and a full recovery made  and 
that if there had not been a full recovery, this suggested further investigations and treatment 
were needed. As I say, the medical evidence shows Mr Vs lump never resolved and he was 
sadly diagnosed with cancer a matter of months later. So Im satisfied there wasnt a time 
when Aviva wouldve offered cover here. So if not for Mr Vs misrepresentation, Aviva 
wouldnt have offered this policy.
 
Aviva has categorised this misrepresentation as careless. Sadly, Mr V is no longer here for 
us to ask why he didnt correct his original application answers when given the opportunity to 
do so, after his health changed. Mrs V says there were no concerns and that Mr V had a 
swollen neck that resolved with antibiotics with no further investigation or treatment 
necessary. I acknowledge this. But as I say, the medical evidence shows the lump hadnt 
resolved, even if it had reduced and wasnt causing Mr V or his doctors concern at that time.
Therefore, Im satisfied it was fair for Aviva to categorise Mr Vs misrepresentation as 
careless. In these circumstances, CIDRA entitles Aviva to avoid the policy and says it should 
refund the premiums. This is what Aviva has done here, so Im satisfied it has acted fairly 
and in line with CIDRA. This means theres no policy under which a claim can be paid. 
Taking everything into account, Im not asking Aviva to do anything further here, though I 
realise this will be a very great disappointment to Mrs V.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman