DRN-2176302
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited failed to make him adequately aware that the value 
quoted to him when he asked to surrender a bond might not be the same as the amount he 
would receive. 
What happened
Mr C invested in a Portfolio Bond in 2007. In August 2019 he contacted ReAssure by phone 
with an enquiry about the bonds value  just over £118,000  and its potential surrender. On 
that call he decided to go ahead with a full surrender, and it was confirmed that his request 
would be duly processed.
Several days later Mr C received confirmation of the bonds surrender and the value he was 
to be paid. He was very disappointed to find that the payment would be nearly £2,200 less 
than the surrender value hed been quoted in the phone call.
Mr C complained to ReAssure. It explained that the value given on the call hadnt been 
guaranteed and, in line with the terms of the contract, the sale had been processed based 
on the price on the second working day following the request. So, as the sale had been 
conducted correctly, the complaint wouldnt be upheld.
Mr C referred the matter to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion as 
ReAssure. He noted that on the phone call Mr C had been told that the quoted price was 
yesterdays and wasnt guaranteed. The investigator accepted that greater clarity couldve 
been provided about the forward pricing process but felt ultimately that ReAssures agent 
had followed the correct procedure. He also highlighted the relevant policy term.
The investigator confirmed that ReAssure didnt contact policyholders to inform them about 
changes in price once a surrender request had been accepted, a process that he said was 
common to the rest of the industry. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view, saying, in brief: 
He felt the investigator shouldve instructed ReAssure to inform policyholders of the 
precise process and exact price.
ReAssure promised excellent customer service and then hid behind terms and 
conditions. 
If, as the investigator had indicated, there couldve been more clarity provided, surely 
it was the case that ReAssure hadnt done all it could have to help. 
It would be a simple process to contact policyholders prior to the surrender to inform 
them of the actual price and obtain their agreement to go ahead.
The investigator acknowledged Mr Cs comments but explained that this services role didnt 
extend to instructing businesses to change their procedures. Rather, it looked at individual 
circumstances. And in this respect, he was satisfied ReAssure had followed the correct 
procedure. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.    
     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise Mr C will be very disappointed, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly similar reasons.
That said, I can quite understand his frustration with the situation. The value of his policy did 
fall a significant amount in the two-day period following his call to ReAssure. But in 
considering the complaint, I must determine whether ReAssure acted incorrectly or unfairly 
in its administration of Mr Cs bond surrender. And while I appreciate that he will strongly 
disagree, I dont think it did. 
In terms of the strict procedure, I think its clear ReAssure followed its usual process as set 
out in the policy terms. He was told on the call that the price given to him wasnt guaranteed. 
And following his instruction the matter proceeded as it shouldve done, with payment being 
made within the time limit indicated in the call. 
But I dont think Mr Cs complaint is really focussed upon whether (or not) the correct 
procedure was followed. His concern is more with what he sees as ReAssures failure to 
clearly explain that procedure and what he might otherwise have done if it had been clearer.
Having listened to the call I accept that more information on the process could have been 
provided. But, that said, I dont think the member of staff Mr C spoke with did anything 
wrong. She said that the price quoted wasnt guaranteed and while I can understand
Mr Cs interpretation of her saying that she would get the surrender request processed for 
you today as meaning the price would be that days, I think it was the request she was 
referring to, not the price. 
So, she could have said more about the process. And if prompted by Mr C Ive no reason to 
think that she wouldnt have explained further. But I dont think its the case that she should 
have done more. 
I note what Mr C has said about other businesses, but in my experience the process 
adopted by ReAssure is not at all unusual. This type of surrender is frequently processed on 
a forward pricing basis. While businesses could in theory choose to contact policyholders to 
alert them to a change in price, I dont think this would be as simple a process as Mr C 
suggests. And certainly not one that would be without significant cost  a cost that would 
ultimately be borne by the customer.
Ive thought about what Mr C mightve done had the explanation provided to him in the call 
be more detailed. It seems likely he wouldve been similarly concerned about not being 
guaranteed a price and may well have raised a complaint about the process. But ultimately, 
the process was the correct one and such a complaint wouldve been unlikely to have been 
upheld. Ultimately Mr C wouldve had to accept the terms of the policy and the 
consequences of forward pricing, which do, or course, benefit policyholders as often as they 
disadvantage them.
   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman