DRN-4008949
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc has failed to help him access his account from 
abroad, where he lives.
What happened
In early 2020 Mr C became unable to access his online banking facility, seemingly 
because Santander had introduced a one time password (OTP) security system, and Mr 
C didnt receive OTPs on his mobile phone. It would appear that was because his 
overseas mobile number wasnt correctly recorded in Santanders system.
He continued to access his funds by withdrawing cash abroad.
However, in late 2021, Santander issued a new debit card to Mr C, which it seems he 
needed to authorise in order to use. When he tried to use it, the transactions were blocked 
as a security measure, as it was a new debit card being used abroad, yet Mr Cs address 
with the bank continued to be a UK one. He has been unable to authorise it as he says it 
is virtually impossible for him to communicate with Santander by telephone, and 
Santander says that it cannot be done by email.
He complained by letter to Santander in January 2022, to which it did not respond. So Mr 
C came to this service. Santander accepted that it had failed to respond to his letter of 
January 2022 and awarded him £100 compensation for that oversight.
Beyond that, Santander did not accept that it had done anything wrong. It explained that its 
processes mean that Mr C does have to phone and speak to them sometimes, such as in 
these circumstances, and that it does not consider email to be a secure way to 
communicate on account-sensitive matters with its customers.
Mr C doesnt accept that, insisting that there must be a more convenient way for Santander 
to communicate with him; that he continues to have no access to his funds; and asking an 
Ombudsman to look at his case. He appears to accept that the £100 compensation for failing 
to respond to his letter of complaint is fair. But points out that it is something of an empty 
gesture, as he remains unable to access his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman is to determine when a business has made a mistake that has 
caused a loss for or harm to a consumer, and direct that business to do what is necessary 
to put things right. I have no role in overseeing banking systems or processes, or judging 
their overall quality. In any event, I have found no evidence of a mistake by Santander 
(beyond its failure to respond to his letter of complaint) so am not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
This case essentially comes down to one basic question: is it unfair or unreasonable of 
Santander to require Mr C to contact it by telephone in order to resolve these access 
issues, rather doing so via email? In short, no, in these circumstances, I dont think it is.
I have seen no evidence to suggest that Santander has acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably in its actions here to try and keep Mr Cs account secure. I can empathise 
with it being inconvenient for Mr C to have to telephone Santander, given where he lives. 
But that is a matter for him. Mr C appears to criticise Santander for its apparent concerns 
about his country of residence and enabling the management of his account from there. 
He describes this as ludicrous, adding that, We live in a globalised world and 
have been thus for at least several decades. On that same basis, I anticipate that he 
ought to be able to manage the inconveniences to him in making a successful 
international telephone call to Santander.
I cannot direct Santander to manage Mr Cs account access over email, and it has raised 
what I consider to be reasonable concerns about the security of that.
It does seem that Santanders records held a slightly incorrect mobile telephone number 
for Mr C, which it has held for a long time. Its impossible to identify why that number was 
incorrect; exactly when it was last updated; and how. So I have no evidence to support a 
conclusion that it was as a result of a mistake by Santander.
As previously mentioned, Mr C appears to accept the £100 sum offered by Santander as 
compensation for its failure to respond to Mr Cs letter of complaint. As I have not found that 
Mr Cs lack of access to his account is Santanders fault, I consider the £100 for the lack of 
response to be a fair amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Santander doesnt need to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman