DRN-3971640
The complaint
Mrs X and Mr X complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd has unreasonably refused to honour its 
confirmed offer of underwriting free cover for Mrs X, whilst their application for a joint 
protection policy was being processed. This meant Mr and Mrs X were unable to pursue a 
critical illness claim under the free cover guarantee for Mrs X. They also say they were 
unfairly prevented from seeking full cover elsewhere, which has caused them a £227,000 
loss.
To resolve the complaint, Mrs X and Mr X want Zurich to make good their financial loss.   
What happened
For ease of reading, I will refer collectively to Mrs X and Mr X hereafter as Mr and Mrs X. 
On 11 January 2021, Mr and Mrs X applied to Zurich for a Life Protection policy. This 
comprised decreasing life assurance and critical illness cover with a term of seven years and 
an initial sum assured of £227,000.  
Zurich did not accept the application, as it required further medical information for Mrs X 
based on a number of medical disclosures she had made. It requested a GP report on 12 
January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs X say they chased Zurich from late January 2021 to ascertain the position with 
the awaited report.  
On 1 February 2021, Mr X enquired with Zurich about progress on the application. They say 
they were told by the call handler that they met the criteria for underwriting free cover and as 
such they were fully covered for any illness that arose at any point during the underwriting 
stage, up until insurance terms were offered.   
On 5 February 2021, Zurich notified Mr and Mrs X to say an application was outstanding.  
On 9 February 2021, Mr X called Zurich again regarding the email. The call handler 
explained Mr and Mrs X may have set up two applications erroneously online. Mr X agreed 
that Mrs X would call her GP to speed matters up, as the GP report was still awaited. He 
also raised the matter of the underwriting free cover again and asked for terms of the cover, 
but these werent sent. 
On 1 March 2021, Mrs X received the GP report to consent to, before it was sent across to 
Zurich. However, she did not agree to the whole report being referred right away as it 
contained some erroneous information concerning Mr X. After discussion with both Zurich 
and the GP, Mr and Mrs X agreed with the surgery to send the full report on 11 March 2021.    
The GP report was eventually returned on 23 March 2021. This report gave rise to some 
further questions on underwriting for cardiovascular issues  so Zurich then asked Mrs X for 
further information.  
On 25 March 2021, Zurich addressed Mr Xs concerns regarding the application process as 
a complaint outcome. It said confusion had arisen because Mr X had submitted another 
unfinished single life assurance application around the same time as the joint application  
but this had since been cancelled. It said that it was still underwriting Mrs Xs cover, having 
received a GP report back the previous week.
Zurich received a reply from Mrs X on 8 April 2021. The underwriters responded the same 
day, and agreed to cover her on standard rates.   
On 9 April 2021, Zurich confirmed its offer of insurance to Mr and Mrs X for the term and 
amount of cover theyd asked for, with a joint monthly premium of £89.28. The acceptance 
documentation asked Mr and Mrs X to tell Zurich if their health had changed since they 
completed their original application.  
Mr and Mrs X agreed to start the policy and confirmed as such online. That same day, Mr 
and Mrs X also notified Zurich that Mrs Xs medical circumstances had changed. They sent 
an email which set out:
Further to your letter today, we've started the policy with effect from now. Your letter 
asks us to email you if anything has changed since the application. This email is to 
let you know a couple of things:
1. We applied on 11th January, but obviously unknown at the time, a few weeks 
later [Mrs X] developed a bad cold / mild flu / chest infection (it was not Covid; 
the test was negative). Obviously she had no such symptoms when we 
applied, nor did we suspect anything. She had several courses of antibiotics, 
a Chest X-Ray and CT and some time off work, but now feels 100% 
recovered and is back at work. As part of the treatment the GP has put her on 
an inhaler (NAME) and all her symptoms are resolved. The Chest X-Ray & 
CT showed no disease and no follow up is required. She is now well.
2.Seemingly as part of his review of her 'flu' (i.e. Feb time), [Mrs Xs] GP sent 
her for further blood tests in relation to the raised white blood cell count / 
benign raised lymph nodes suggested by her Thyroid ultrasound consultant 
which we told you about earlier (and as a result of which she was not awaiting 
any tests or results / investigations or treatment over when we applied). The 
GP noted she had Glandular Fever a while back, and has sent her for further 
blood tests through a blood consultant just to be sure. The blood test results 
to date are all clear apart from the ongoing / long term raised white blood cell 
count. The results have not resulted in any diagnosis or treatment. [Mrs X] 
has been reassured by the blood consultant, but he has sent her for a full 
body CT scan (booked for late April) which he hopes will result in her being 
returned to the GP with no further action recommended.
Zurich emailed Mrs X on 18 April 2021 to confirm that it will await the outcome of her scan. 
On 26 April 2021, Mrs X told Zurich she had sadly been diagnosed with a type of blood 
cancer, which appeared to have been confirmed on 19 April 2021. Zurich therefore sought 
further medical information about Mrs Xs condition. 
On 5 May 2021, Zurichs underwriters confirmed it could not have insured Mrs X, as her GP 
had instigated medical investigations in February 2021 which sadly led to her diagnosis of 19 
April 2021. These investigations pre-dated the policys start date.  Despite this, Mrs X submitted a claim form on 28 May 2021. Zurich investigated the claim for 
completeness and received a consultants report on 29 July 2021. 
On 26 August 2021, Zurich told Mrs X that it could not consider any claim. It explained that 
its underwriters would not have been able to offer Mrs X any critical illness benefit. This was 
because Mrs X had undergone a blood test showing an increased white blood count and she 
had been referred for a CT scan. This took place before Zurichs underwriting decision of 8 
April 2021. 
 
In an email of 10 September 2021, Mr X then queried why a claim could not be met under 
the underwriting free option previously discussed with Zurich.  
On 29 September 2021, a claim handler told Mr X that the free cover option didnt apply to 
Mr and Mrs X was it would have expired 30 days after the GP report was requested on 12 
January 2021. There was no free cover in place at the date of Mrs Xs diagnosis. 
Mr X said it was unfair for one call handler to indicate free cover applied, yet another call 
handler could simply remove it at a later date. A discussion was had about Mr X pursuing a 
complaint, but he wasnt able to articulate that during the call due to the stress of the news. 
So, the call handler noted he could pursue it at a later date.    
The claim handler also wrote to Mr and Mrs X the same day confirming the terms of 
underwriting free cover, and why it did not apply to Mrs X.  
In October 2021, Mr X asked the call handler to confirm by email that there wasnt a time 
limit for them to further a complaint. He reiterated that there wasnt a deadline. 
However, Zurich then wrote to Mr and Mrs X explaining it was dealing with their complaint.  
On 4 November 2021, Zurich issued a complaint outcome to Mr and Mrs X, rejecting the 
complaint.   
On 5 January 2022, Mr X complained about Zurich having issued a complaint response 
when he and Mrs X hadnt had any input into a complaint procedure. He explained how in 
late September and October 2021 a separate serious incident stopped Mr and Mrs X from 
pursuing the matter further at that time. They were then shocked to receive the 4 November 
2021 letter where Zurich deemed the matter closed. They asked Zurich to retract the 
complaint outcome, but it would not do so. 
On 24 January 2022, Mr and Mrs X submitted a full written complaint to Zurich. In summary, 
they said:
this was their first formal complaint, secondary to legal advice;
Zurich mis-sold them insurance, and furthermore it repeatedly failed to respond to 
reasonable requests for written details about the insurance product it was selling;
these mistakes on Zurichs part left Mr and Mrs X exposed to a risk of £227,000 that 
they would otherwise have been fully insured against;
Zurich failed to adhere to the expectations of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
in respect of how it should have treated them as potential customers who were 
subject to delays caused by the coronavirus pandemic;
it knew medical reports took longer than they should have during this period, and the 
free cover ought to have been equally adjusted to reflect that;Zurichs underwriting free cover terms meant that it had made a mistake in citing the 
changes in Mrs Xs health during the underwriting period as a reason for not 
honouring the full terms of the policy in place from 9 April 2021;
as a result, the claim should now be paid on the original policy;
Zurichs communication processes have fallen below reasonable standards on 
several occasions, not just in relation to the loss of cover;
it also conducted an unjust complaints process by investigating a concern from them 
without involving them or informing them;
it proceeded with a complaint in September 2021 without considering the evidence 
and details they would have wished it to review and in spite of leading them to 
understand that it was not processing a complaint;
these cumulative failures were likely to be negatively impacting Mrs Xs health.   
In addition, Mr and Mrs X supplied a five-page chronological table of events which had 
precipitated their complaint. They submitted that this service puts consumers in the position 
they would be in, but for a business making a mistake. In their view, this meant that their loss 
of a £227,000 claim should be settled now.
On 18 March 2022, Zurich upheld the complaint in part. It said:
it had taken Mr Xs concerns of September 2021 as a complaint, because it was 
required to do so if a customer expressed dissatisfaction or upset  as Mr X had 
done at the time;
it did update him by sending two holding letters of September and October 2021;
nonetheless, this new letter gave fresh referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, and it would not affect Mr and Mrs X from pursuing the matter if required;
when it looked at whether a claim could be met under the underwriting free cover 
option, it was clear that the terms had not been met;
however, the call handler did not make this clear to Mr X during the call in February 
2021;
Zurich recognised the disappointment and upset this had caused so it sent Mr and 
Mrs X £525 compensation - £500 for upset and the £25 for the cost of the calls Mr X 
had made;
it otherwise confirmed it was still unable to make a claim payment, free cover policy 
payment or reinstate Mr and Mrs Xs policy, as it had correctly followed its 
procedures and the terms and condition of the policy.
Mr and Mrs X then referred their complaint to this service, where they reiterated its 
chronology. They also said that they wanted Zurich to be compelled to answer all of the 
various grounds of complaint raised (because it hadnt done so)  specifically, those 
concerning its customer service. 
The complaint was then reviewed by one of our investigators. 
Mr X also said that he had anonymously applied for critical illness cover for Mrs X using the 
answers Mrs X would have given on 1 February 2021  if Zurich had told them that they 
would not be insured; as they would have gone to another insurer. In doing so, another 
insurer would have offered Mrs X critical illness cover, with or without a medical report to 
confirm that her thyroid cyst was something that didnt affect underwriting. 
Mr X said he now knew cover wouldve been agreed by LV, Royal London, and two other 
insurers without any need for a medical report, on the strength of the answers of 1 February 
2021. He said the 'applications' had only been made by himself for the purposes of being 
able to prove that Zurich's mistake cost him and Mrs X £227,000. Our investigator asked for evidence; and Mr X supplied documentation relating to the Royal London and LV 
applications, made on 24 June and 29 June 2022 respectively.  
Over the course of two views on the complaint, our investigator said he did not believe the 
complaint should succeed. 
He noted that Mr and Mrs X didnt know about free cover until 1 February 2021, when they 
were wrongly informed about it. But the investigator did not think that this meant Mrs X would 
have obtained insurance somewhere else. He believed that the applications Mr X had 
undertaken elsewhere did not accurately answer questions in respect of Mrs Xs medical 
history  specifically where she had been asked to undergo a scan relating to her chest 
infection.  
Mr X then supplied a further document to outline where he felt our investigator had 
misinterpreted the facts of the case; in doing so he highlighted 18 different parts of the 
investigators view which he said contained factual errors. Given its length and detail, I will 
not be repeating that document here; however, I confirm that I have read it in full, along with 
everything else supplied by the parties on the complaint file.  
Some key points Mr X made included:
he disagrees that the Royal London and LV applications were wrongly answered;
in mid-February, Mrs X was fit and well;
nothing happened in January 2021 in relation to Mrs Xs health;
they now know that some people can be instantly approved for critical illness cover 
online;
until then, they had thought that all companies would want GP checks;
they previously had no experience or knowledge of the fact that some companies 
could offer instant cover;
some of the quotes for other cover were financially competitive  even though the 
Royal London one was more costly;
the cost wouldnt have been a factor anyway;
in summer 2021, Mr X was obviously uninsured and so he immediately took his own 
instantly available critical illness cover at quite a high premium whilst he also ran an 
application with another company who had a lower price policy but wanted a medical 
report before approval;
they would have, at the latest, applied on 9 February 2021, as this was the date of 
the call with evidence of Mr X clearly stating he would have shopped around;
many people have raised white blood counts on results for many reasons such as a 
common cold, only very rare cases actually turn out to be leukaemia;
a separate investigation (thyroid scan) was done in November 2020 and it was 
noticed that Mrs X had lymph nodes with extra white blood cells in them;
but Mrs X disclosed that, and the consultant also fully discharged her, concluding this 
was of no concern; 
so it is a matter of medical fact to state that Mrs Xs medical record was 100% clear 
at the time of application;
they were not in a particular rush, but things were stalled by the pandemic;
it would be nonsense to expect a customer who has just been told they are insured 
to go and pay for insurance that they have already been freely given;
the relevant part of the call on 9 February 2021 was ignored  but that was where the 
call handler assured Mr X that he and Mrs X were covered.
Our investigator issued a further view noting he did not consider the complaint should 
succeed. He said he did not believe Mrs X could have secured instant cover elsewhere in the timescale Mr X had suggested. He did agree that Zurich had wrongly informed Mr and 
Mrs X about the underwriting free cover, and for this the payment of £525 was appropriate in 
the circumstances.  
After our investigators second view, Mr X made a complaint about the service he received 
from our investigator. That separate matter was passed to one of our ombudsmen. 
Mr and Mrs X said they wanted this complaint to be passed to a different ombudsman, with 
an extended deadline for them to make any other comments and/or supply evidence such as 
telephone records  which was agreed. They also explained felt concerned about the 
principles of natural justice, specifically that they did not want the investigator issuing any 
further outcomes on their complaint. 
During the correspondence relating to the service complaint, Mr X also made submissions 
about this complaint. These were:
he and Mrs X wanted to know the name of the ombudsman to ensure it was not any 
of the people who have worked on their complaint to date;
they wanted assurances that the new ombudsman was entirely independent;
they wanted to liaise with the deciding ombudsman to discuss each of the following 
pieces of evidence which they deem to be key to the matter:
a. their executive summary of the complaint;
b. their appeal reasons contrary to the investigators view;
c. their initial complaint to Zurich with the associated documents;
d. the telephone transcripts and call recordings with the two Zurich call handlers;
e. thirteen documents and six emails which they say prove without any doubt 
whatsoever that Royal London and LV would have instantly covered Mrs X 
had she applied for insurance in early February 2021;
f. the medical chronology supplied by Mr X to our investigator on 2 February 
2023; and 
g. their document entitled statement for [investigator] of the same date.     
The executive summary referred to in point a) above is Mr Xs assessment of the facts of the 
complaint. These are:
during Autumn 2020 Mr and Mrs X took on a new financial liability of £227,000;
they knew they required critical illness cover for such a large debt  so set about 
finding cover over Christmas 2020;
they applied to Zurich through a price comparison site on 11 January 2021;
having heard nothing from Zurich and being keen to get things in place, they chased 
Zurich by call and email on 26 January, 1 February, 5 February and 9 February 2021;
Zurich accepts it told them on 1 February 2021 about underwriting free cover  
meaning that during the underwriting stage they would be fully covered should either 
of them fall ill, for as long as that stage took, for the entire proposed sum assured;
on this basis, they were happy to sit back and wait  and this is reaffirmed by the 
calls held with Zurichs call handlers at that time;
Mrs X was diagnosed with leukaemia in April 2021;
Zurichs complaint outcome letter acknowledges and accepts that Mrs Xs health did 
change after application and during the underwriting stage;
they therefore sought to claim for critical illness benefit under the free cover, but 
Zurich will not pay the claim and honour its previously given promise.  
Mr X also contended that our investigator had reached an unfair, illogical, irrational and 
flawed outcome to the complaint. He said this was because:the investigator said he was not of the view that Mr and Mrs X would have sought 
other insurance elsewhere  but this is despite:
oMr and Mrs X telling Zurich they would have gone elsewhere;
othem demonstrating they wanted cover  because they sought it in the first 
place; and
othem not seeking other cover because they presumed Zurich had already 
covered them under the free cover promise.   
the investigator has failed to explain what sort of evidence would have persuaded 
him that Mr and Mrs X would have gone elsewhere;
the investigator has set a natural justice-defying and impossible test  that they 
should have gone elsewhere but couldnt because of Zurichs promise, meaning it is 
now unfairly presumed that they would not have done so;
the investigator made a material mistake in saying Mrs X could not have been 
insured anywhere else;
their retrospective critical illness application shows this to be untrue;
the investigator has failed to understand the medical chronology of this complaint;
there can be no doubt whatsoever that Mrs X could have been instantly insured in 
February 2021  if an insurer had chosen to do so;
Mr X said on a call to Zurich of 9 February 2021 that we ought to just get our critical 
illness insurance elsewhere it seems;
this demonstrates they had a strong motivation to get their insurance as quickly as 
they could;
they would and could have got instant cover from other insurers at the time  but 
were prevented from doing so by the reassurances from Zurich. 
Whilst the matter was awaiting an ombudsmans review, Mr X submitted several further 
comments to our investigator, including:
he questions if the investigator answered his and Mrs Xs point that they are 
convinced the evidence shows they would have gone elsewhere if they had 
opportunity to do so; 
they also question whether it is reasonable and rational to expect a customer should 
have looked for insurance elsewhere after they are told by their insurer that they are 
fully covered;
they are confused as to whether the investigator has answered their questions or not;
they feel the investigator has been evasive;
the Financial Ombudsman Service website says that a consumer can question a 
case handlers assessment  so why can they no longer do so?;
if the investigator had worked alongside an ombudsman, they want reassurance that 
the person was completely impartial of the investigators input;
though they asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman, they wanted to 
await the outcome of the separate service complaint first from the other ombudsman.  
Our investigator explained that Mr X had already asked for an ombudsmans review and his 
service complaint required a different case handler. He did give further reasoning to his view, 
to aid Mr Xs additional questions. He said that:
on the first question, Mr and Mrs X said they didn't go elsewhere for cover because 
Zurich's mistake led them to believe that they were fully covered. However, he was 
not persuaded that Mr and Mrs X would, without a doubt, have gone elsewhere for 
cover had Zurich not made a mistake, within the narrow time frame set out;on the second question, he would not speculate as to what Mr and Mrs X had to 
show to alter his view  it was merely the case that he did not agree they would have 
done anything differently in the defined circumstances;
his opinion remains the same and he considered the outcome to be fair;
he could not make any further comments in respect of the service complaint. 
The ombudsman completed the separate service complaint outcome effective March 2023. 
Zurich had no further comments to make. The complaint was thereafter referred to me for 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. This complaint has a considerable volume of correspondence, which 
consequentially impacts the time taken to undertake a complete review of all the evidence.  
I know that this process has been upsetting for Mr and Mrs X. I do not intend to make 
matters worse for them, but I wont be addressing every individual submission Mr X has 
made or giving my view on each incident within the extensive timeline of this complaint. 
My decision will not address any aspect of the concerns about the service Mr X has received 
from various members of staff handling his complaint. That is a distinct issue relating to 
customer service at the Financial Ombudsman Service, with separate recourse to the 
Independent Assessor  a route I understand Mr and Mrs X are aware of. 
I also wont be issuing any findings on concerns Mr and Mrs X have about the way Zurich 
has undertaken the complaint handling process. Firstly, we are not the regulator; as Mr X is 
aware, that role falls to the FCA. And secondly, complaints to this service do need to be 
about specific regulated activities (e.g. the arranging of insurance) or any ancillary activities, 
including advice carried out by a business in relation to regulated activities. Complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity in its own right and does not fall within our jurisdiction.  
I can see that following our investigators view, one of Mr Xs concerns has been regarding 
natural justice. He has referred to due process, noting how a judge may investigate a case. 
He has also asked our investigator on several occasions to reiterate his reasoning. Whilst I 
understand why Mr X is compelled to do so, I will not be reinvestigating the outcome 
supplied by our investigator before me  instead, I have reviewed this complaint afresh. 
We are not a court; and though there are rules I may rely on in respect of complaint handling 
procedures, I am not required to comment on each point or make specific determinations on 
every submission put forward by the parties. 
However, I can assure Mr X that I have reviewed all of the evidence on file. To that end, Ive 
included a detailed chronology of the complaint in the what happened section of this 
decision, which greatly exceeds the customary background summary usually contained in a 
final decision. I also confirm that I have reviewed this file entirely independently of any 
previous case handlers. 
I do not deem it necessary to liaise with Mr X regarding the various pieces of evidence that 
he considers fundamental. We must give both parties in a complaint opportunity to make 
submissions, and to liaise with one party may counter natural justice principles. I must remain impartial; therefore, both parties have been able to provide additional comments, 
evidence or information before the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans review.  
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. My remit is to make 
findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances and 
this does not follow a prescribed format. Instead, I will set out my reasons for my findings on 
what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint, based on the evidence before me. 
Having looked at everything, I do not believe this complaint should be upheld. I will set out 
my reasons for reaching that conclusion below.  
It is clear that a claim under Mr and Mrs Xs policy for the critical illness benefit of Cancer 
excluding less advanced cases could not be considered by Zurich  and it has made no 
attempts to confirm if a claim would have met the severity level of the policy wording or not. 
Though Mr and Mrs X were not made aware until much later, laboratory results of 19 March 
2021 (following the haematologist consultation of 9 March 2021) confirmed Mrs Xs type of 
cancer. So, by the time Mr and Mrs Xs policy was agreed on 8 April 2021, Mrs Xs health 
circumstances had changed  and this would have affected the terms Zurich could offer. 
I have seen Zurichs underwriting manual pages used by the underwriters when assessing 
applicants with Mrs Xs type of cancer. Neither life nor critical illness cover could be offered 
to an applicant in Mrs Xs circumstances (based on her age and the date of diagnosis). So, 
no claim for the £227,000 sum assured could ever have been covered by Zurich.  
The dispute which remains is that Mr and Mrs X say they ought to have been allowed to 
claim under Zurichs Underwriting - Free Cover policy (for a lower sum assured  which 
they were not aware of), or otherwise, to have been properly informed about the policy not 
offering protection, so they could have sought £227,000 of critical illness cover elsewhere.  
Taking the free cover policy first, I have looked at what the terms of that policy require Zurich 
to do. The cover begins when Zurich receives a fully and correctly completed application. 
That was on 11 January 2021. 
The cover also says, variously, that:
What is free cover? 
It can provide you with a cash sum if you die or are diagnosed with a critical illness 
that meets our policy definition during the free cover period
How much free cover is provided?
The type and amount of free cover depends on the type of cover you have applied 
for. It is limited to the lower of:
£250,000 if you die, or
£150,000 if you are diagnosed with a critical illness that meets our policy 
definition
When does the free cover stop?
The free cover period stops as soon as any of the following events happen:
our underwriters accept or decline your application
seven days after our underwriters offer you different terms
30 days after our underwriters have asked for further information to 
enable them to make a decision on your application [my emphasis]
90 days after we have acknowledged receipt of your applicationyou withdraw your application for the policy
your policy starts. 
So, Mr and Mrs Xs underwriting free cover of £150,000 ceased on 11 February 2021  30 
days after the GP report was requested.  
I understand that neither Mr nor Mrs X knew of the free cover until the call of 1 February 
2021. And they did not have the policy terms before them to realise all of the conditions that 
applied to free cover. 
During that call, the call handler erroneously led Mr X to believe the free cover applied until 
the date terms could be offered. He mentioned only three conditions relating to age, not 
having any other applications in place elsewhere, and residence in the UK. He made no 
other mention of the various terms and conditions Ive set out above. 
Mr X asked in that call if he and Mrs X were covered while the GP report matter was 
resolved. The call handler reviewed the first part of the policy and told Mr X in unequivocal 
terms that they were eligible for our underwriting cover. this will end as soon as terms are 
offered for your wife and then obviously its up to you to get the policy started at that point. 
The call of 9 February 2021 did not dispel the incorrect understanding of the underwriting 
free cover mistakenly given to Mr and Mrs X on 1 February 2021. In that call, the call handler 
noted:
We do offer something called free cover...unfortunately its not just as straight 
forward as saying yes or no on an application, there is (sic) criteria that we have to 
look at so is that something that my previous colleague went through with you on that 
call Mr [X]?
Mr X confirmed that the previous call handler had told him about free cover having three 
conditions. He went on to ask for the call handler to provide him and Mrs X with an email to 
reassure them that they were covered by the free cover until such time that the medical 
report came back and terms were agreed. 
The call handler confirmed she would certainly need to pass this information over... you 
know just for that toyou know, be looked into as well and I will certainly see if theres 
something that we can arrange to get something in writing to you in terms of a resolution, so 
if you leave that with me, then I will need to get that documented.
Mr X reiterated he wanted an email to confirm that they were, in fact, covered. No email was 
given, and neither party followed the matter up further.  
Zurichs call handlers both dealt with Mr Xs calls incorrectly. He was not told about the true 
nature of the free cover and its contractual restrictions; yet those call handlers were in the 
informed position of being able to look at the terms and conditions.  
So, I agree errors took place by both Zurich call handlers. Mr X has rightly noted on our 
website how this service addresses errors made by a business in the course of undertaking 
a regulated activity with eligible consumers. Notwithstanding the upset Mr and Mrs X have 
been placed under, the correct response to a businesss mistake is to put consumers in the 
position they would have been in, but for that mistake.
What is clear from the evidence is that Zurichs actions were misleading and confusing for 
Mr and Mrs X because they placed reliance on Zurich having intimated that the free cover 
protected them unequivocally, up until terms were offered  and no email had been sent to correct that presumption. This created a loss of expectation, as Mr and Mrs X were later 
informed that the call handlers (notably the first one) had gotten that wrong.    
I agree that some compensation was due for those errors, but in my view, Zurich has already 
paid it. I do not agree that consequential loss of £227,000 flows from this mistake, such that 
Zurichs actions have prevented Mrs X from securing cover elsewhere and having a valid 
claim paid out for cancer of a specified severity under a different critical illness policy.  
The correct position should have been that Zurich told Mr X on either 1 February or 9 
February 2021 that the free cover was due to end on 11 February 2021  and what the 
correct terms and conditions were. It would have then been for Mr and Mrs X to decide what 
to do with their policy application.
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs X wanted their cover set up promptly. They have told us 
this was the case despite there being no obvious reason for accelerating matters beyond 
general concerns about the coronavirus pandemic (with a national lockdown at that time). 
However, I do not agree, on the balance of probabilities, that the evidence Mr X has supplied 
determines that Mrs X would likely have secured instant cover elsewhere  that is cover 
approved on standard terms, based on medical disclosures being made.  
I say that noting the applications Mr X made sixteen months later, on the assumption of the 
same information given by Mrs X in January 2021, as if she had sought fresh cover 
sometime between 1 February 2021 and 11 February 2021.
It is my view that two of the policy questions (but certainly, the second of the two) would 
need to have been answered differently. In the reconstructed application to Royal London, 
two questions put to Mrs X (and answered by Mr X as no) said:
Do you have existing Life insurance or are you applying for any other Life 
insurance?
You don't need to tell us about: Life cover that is provided by your employer, Life 
cover that is going to be replaced by this application; and
Have any of these applied to you in the last 3 years? 
You don't need to include things you've already told us about
Please select all that apply...
I've taken or been prescribed treatment for 4 weeks or more
I've been asked to attend a follow-up or regular reviews with a GP, hospital or 
clinic
I've been advised to see a specialist or to have any tests, scans, 
investigations or counselling
You don't need to tell us about: Antibiotics for one-off chest infections, Infertility 
treatments, pregnancy and terminations
Mrs X did not disclose her ongoing medication in relation to the second question. This was 
distinct and unrelated to her ongoing chest infection that had begun on 22 January 2021 and 
escalated into a cough on 27 January 2021  for which the GP had prescribed two courses 
of antibiotics to date. That had yet to reach a four-week window. But Mrs X was also 
prescribed two types of migraine medication from 2019 onwards, on repeat prescription. 
Our investigator asked Royal London for a hypothetical view on the correct medical evidence 
had Mrs X presented the same application (with an amendment for the second question 
being answered positively instead) in early February 2021.  Royal London has confirmed it would have required further answers about Mrs Xs health, 
including time off work, and whether there were any investigations outstanding. It also could 
not say conclusively that it would have offered immediate cover to Mrs X. It told us that it 
may have had to investigate further, depending on the answers Mrs X had given at the time.  
In relation to the first question, Mr X has told us when he sought his own cover, he did so 
across two insurers. And this likely would have applied here, as I cannot see why the Zurich 
application would have been cancelled when a medical report was due to be returned in 
favour of the (projected) more expensive Royal London policy. That would or should have 
changed the answer to the above question. 
In the alternative, if Mr X correctly answered the question then he would have hypothetically 
cancelled the Zurich policy (because the free cover provision that he knew about required 
him and Mrs X to not be making any other application elsewhere). If so, it is more likely than 
not that Mr X would have sought cover to commence from 12 February 2021, because he 
and Mrs X were partially insured under the underwriting free cover until 11 February 2021. 
However, Mrs X was off work on 1 February 2021 due to her chest infection, for which a CT 
scan was ordered on 15 February 2021, giving results on 20 February 2021 which the GP 
then escalated to haematology on 24 and 25 February 2021. 
I realise that at no time did Mrs X know or realise she would go on to receive her cancer 
diagnosis  I can see how it was an incidental haematology finding which was only related to 
her previous white blood cell abnormality of October 2020 with the application of hindsight. 
However, I am not persuaded that the hypothetical applications Mr X undertook in June 2022 
demonstrate what any insurer would have done in February 2021. I know Mr X has relied on 
FCA guidance issued at the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in March 2020 to show what 
insurers should do to preserve ongoing good customer service. But it remains the case that 
things were delayed by the pandemic  notably a delay in obtaining a GP report for Mrs X, 
which both Mr X and Zurich accepted was impacted by government restrictions at the time. 
Mr and Mrs X also confirmed they took on a mortgage liability in the autumn of 2020, but 
they did not apply for critical illness cover until 11 January 2021. Though it is not disputed 
that Mr X wanted reassurance that some cover was in place, I cannot postulate that he and 
Mrs X would have acted contrastingly with a degree of urgency to obtain cover in a matter of 
days in February 2021, without clear reason for doing so. 
I say that noting how Mr X has submitted in clear terms that right up to 19 April 2021, Mrs X 
was feeling much better all seemed like a simple case of bad winter chest infection, now 
cleared and looking forward to the summer. I accept that being insured was of notable 
importance, but I am not persuaded that it was of such paramount significance that Mr and 
Mrs X would have decided to cease their (almost resolved) application with Zurich and 
started a fresh application with another insurer at additional time and cost. 
More significantly, I dont believe that it can be said with sufficient certainty, how, in light of 
being told the correct nature of the free cover (that the £150,000 protection ended on 11 
February 2021), Mr and Mrs X would have applied for cover and - most notably secured it 
without the need for underwriting for Mrs X  instantly or within just a few days. By 15 
February 2021, a further duty of disclosure had arisen in relation to the GP sending Mrs X for 
a CT scan. Any other insurer would have needed to know about that, and in my view, would 
likely awaited the outcome of that scan. 
It is not clear what Royal London, LV or another insurer would have done upon receipt of a 
correct application, because Mr Xs assumed applications were not identical; they did not make complete disclosures and they were undertaken sixteen months apart.  
It is speculative to infer that another insurer would pay out a critical illness claim for Mrs X, 
for an assumed policy that would have to be accepted on standard terms and put on risk 
before 15 February 2021. I am not accordingly persuaded that a loss of a possible £227,000 
claim payment occurred as a direct consequence of Zurichs erroneous communication 
about the free cover. I realise this conclusion will be upsetting for Mr and Mrs X, but Im not 
able to uphold a complaint merely because of my sympathy for a complainants 
circumstances; I must be fair to both parties.  
What this service does is consider if a business has treated a customer unfairly because of 
actions or inactions. And if it has done so, we then go on to consider what ought to be done 
to put the mistake(s) right. In this case, that was for Zurich to tell Mr and Mrs X that their 
underwriting free cover would end on 11 February 2021; and to compensate them for the 
loss of expectation they suffered, upon realising the call handlers assertions were 
inaccurate. 
As well as putting right any financial losses in a complaint (though for the reasons set out 
above, I do not believe there are any in this circumstance), we also consider the emotional 
or practical impact of any errors on complainants  in this case, Mr and Mrs X. In doing so, 
we do not fine or punish businesses; we are not a regulator - that duty falls to the FCA.  
It may be helpful for Mr and Mrs X to review to the guidance available on our website around 
the amounts and types of awards made in instances of upset, trouble, inconvenience and 
distress caused by businesses in the complaints we see at this service.  
Taking into account the impact of the misinformation about the underwriting free cover, I 
believe the payment of £525 was reasonable in the circumstances where two instances of 
repeating an incorrect understanding of the provisions caused considerable upset and 
anguish for Mr and Mrs X later down the line. The misconception also took several months to 
be rectified, and it had a notable short-term impact on Mr and Mrs X at an already 
distressing time, following her diagnosis. The amount of £525 is an amount I believe 
appropriate for combined errors of this nature, and I do not make any other award. 
My final decision
Though I appreciate my decision will not be what Mr and Mrs X have hoped for, I do not 
believe Zurich Assurance Ltd needs to do anything further to settle the complaint. It has 
rightly compensated them for the circumstances of the upset they have suffered, as 
explained above. 
I disagree that any other financial loss flows from the mistakes made by Zurichs call 
handlers and I do not find it liable to any claim of critical illness benefit under the voided 
policy or the lower sum assured under the underwriting free cover policy. 
As payment of £525 compensation has already been made, I make no award and do not 
require Zurich to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs X to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman