DRN-2874581
The complaint
Mr B and Ms R complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have declined their 
buildings insurance claim for two areas of damage in their home. They also complain that 
RSAs plans for dealing with damage in a third area are disproportionate. Finally, they say 
that RSA have failed to handle their claim efficiently and the process has been chaotic and 
unpleasant. Any references to RSA include RSAs agents.
What happened
In 2019 Mr B and Ms R noticed a problem with an internal wall between two windows in their 
basement  a gap between the plasterboard and the wall. In order to sort it out they 
appointed builders to come in and look at the problem. When their builders removed the 
plasterboard in June 2019, a sheet of brick work fell in. Ill refer to this as Area 1. Mr B felt 
this damage was covered under their buildings insurance policy, and told RSA that a large 
Plane tree on the pavement above, adjacent to the property, might have caused the 
damage.
Mr B and Ms R engaged their own structural engineer (A) to explore the problem in Area 1. 
And when A was doing this, they also noted damage to a second area of the property. This 
was a damaged retaining wall to the north of the propertys lightwell (an open, sunken area 
to the north and east of the basement). So, A inspected this too. Ill refer to this as Area 2.
A took measurements and produced drawings of Areas 1 and 2 detailing the direction and 
size of multiple cracks visible in the render. They also recommended a trial pit was dug to 
expose the foundations of the wall in Area 1. On digging and reviewing the trial pit it was 
found that vegetation roots were there, and these were sent for identification. The results 
showed that these were Virginia Creeper roots, rather than roots from the Plane tree 
mentioned above.
As initial report, dated 1 August 2019, said:
Area 1  The bulging plasterboard had been due to brickwork leaning against the back of it. 
They described the problem as serious and unusual and concluded the delamination 
(separation) of the brickwork had likely been caused by subsidence.
Area 2  The retaining wall was in distress as a result of the lateral expansion of the major 
[Plane tree] roots, pushing the whole wall south at the base by 50 mm or so. They 
recommended that the Plane tree be removed, as it will continue to cause serious problems 
from its roots to the adjacent and very close north area wall and possibly the main house 
wall there too.
RSAs loss adjuster inspected the site in mid-August 2019. They noted there was a 15- 
metre-tall Plane tree stood about one metre from the property and described three areas of 
damage; these being the two areas above, and Area 3 being a newer extension at the rear 
of the house about which Mr B and Ms R had had no prior concerns. RSAs technical report 
gave the following conclusions about each area:
Area 1  They said, This damage is not the result of subsidence because the pattern and 
nature of the cracks is not consistent with foundation movement.
Area 2  They noted that the retaining wall was suffering a significant lean towards the 
house but said, This damage is not the result of subsidence because the pattern and nature 
of the cracks is not consistent with vertical foundation movement  the damage is a result of 
lateral pressure from the retained ground and from ground water. It is also possible that 
roots from the Plane tree are applying pressure where impacting the back of the wall. The 
base of the wall is bowed in plan indicating that this lateral pressure is pushing the 
foundations towards the house. This in turn has led to the upward buckling of the path 
between the retaining wall and the main wall of the house.
Area 3  They concluded that the damage here was indicative of an episode of subsidence 
likely caused by root induced clay shrinkage. They said that further investigations would be 
required to demonstrate the influence of the Plane tree.
Mr B and Ms R were advised that the damage in Areas 1 and 2 was, not consistent with 
subsidence or the operation of any other insured event. RSA said Area 1 was likely due to 
age-related decay, and Area 2 was due to the inadequate strength of the wall to sustain 
lateral earth loads. They explained that damage in those areas was excluded from cover 
because it happened gradually, and that Area 2 was further excluded because that 
wouldnt be covered unless the house was damaged by the same cause and at the same 
time.
A, having reviewed RSAs conclusions, issued a further report dated 6 September 2019. 
They said in their opinion the damage in Area 1 was due to root induced subsidence which 
has caused cyclical movements leading to the delamination of the wall. With regard to 
Area 2, A said:
 Given the proximity of the tree it would be surprising if the wall was not subject to 
subsidence like the house. The damage to the paving in the north area and the bowing, 
leaning and cracking of the wall is indicative of lateral movement from the tree roots, pushing 
the wall south. This has been exacerbated by the lean of the tree to the north. This is likely 
to get worse and we have recommended that the tree should be removed and the wall 
repaired and reconstructed where necessary.
In September Mr B and Ms R complained to RSA that policy exclusions where being used to 
block a reasonable claim. They said the fall of bricks in Area 1 was a sudden event and 
should be covered.
Mr B and Ms R asked us to get involved in November 2019. They said precipitous 
delamination should be covered by the policy. They also explained the problem in Area 2 
was affecting the flagstones within the house and so should be covered. Mr B and Ms R said 
theyd found communication between all parties to be inadequate.
Meanwhile an arborcultural expert had visited the property to assess whether moisture 
abstraction by vegetation was a causal factor in the damage to Area 3. They concluded, in a 
report dated 8 November 2019, that it was. And they recommended that the Plane tree and 
a wisteria both be removed. In April 2020 RSA reviewed recent level monitoring readings 
and explained: The consultant has reviewed your claim and confirmed there is no adverse 
risk of heave. We have informed the councils appointed representative this (sic) and asked 
them to confirm when they will carry out the tree works.Mr B and Ms R raised concern that removal of the tree might result in further damage to their 
house. RSAs technical experts said they thought any potential heave to the house would be 
sustainable especially as the tree is younger than the property.
In May 2020 Mr B and Ms R were in contact with the local councils tree officer and felling 
was deferred. But they highlighted that the wall in Area 2 was now seriously bulging, that 
the flagstones on the path to [their] front [were] raised, and that Plane tree roots had been 
found in their laundry room, close to the rear extension and previously (in 2004) under their 
doorstep. They expressed concern about what would happen to their house if the whole tree 
were felled, because theyd experienced movement of flagstones on their property 
previously when the tree was only pollarded.
In June 2020 the policyholders were given further reassurance by RSAs loss adjusters that 
it would be safe to remove the tree. They were also advised that if they continued to object 
to the trees removal RSA might remove subsidence cover.
On 8 July 2020 RSAs loss adjuster wrote to Mr B and Ms R to summarise the position. They 
reiterated that RSA had no liability for repairing the damage in Areas 1 and 2 because it 
wasnt the result of subsidence. They went on to strongly recommend that the policy holders 
allow the tree to be felled so that the claim for Area 3 could be progressed.
Mr B and Ms R didnt find a further heave report commissioned by RSA conclusive, and they 
explained that before a beautiful and protected tree is felled they wanted the local council 
or RSA to accept liability for any future problems. RSA confirmed the tree needed to be 
removed to enable matters to progress.
Policy terms and conditions
Mr B and Ms Rs policy included cover for physical damage to the buildings (described in the 
policy) caused by Subsidence or heave of the site on which the buildings stand or of land 
belonging to it, or landslip. The Policy Wording explained:
Subsidence means downward movement of the site on which your buildings stand 
by a cause other than the weight of the buildings themselves.
Heave means upward and/or lateral movement of the site on which the buildings 
stand caused by swelling of the ground 
It went on to say that damage to walls, patios, paved terraces, footpaths etc wouldnt be 
covered unless the insured home was damaged by the same cause and at the same time.
Mr B and Ms R had also selected an Accidental Damage Option. This covered accidental 
damage to buildings and explained: Accidental damage means sudden, unexpected and 
visible damage which has not been caused on purpose.
The Policy Exclusions section applied to the whole policy. It explained the insurance didnt 
cover:
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused directly or indirectly 
by or resulting from wear and tear or anything which happens gradually 
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr B and Ms Rs complaint. She came to the following 
conclusions about each area:Area 1  She didnt think As report adequately explained why theyd concluded the 
delamination was caused by subsidence, or shown the link between the presence of the 
roots and the damage. She said RSAs report was more persuasive.
Area 2  She said both experts have identified that roots from the Plane tree are applying 
lateral pressure to the back of the retaining wall, and the movement of the wall is consistent 
with this lateral pressure, rather than subsidence (downward movement). She didnt think 
RSAs decision to decline the claim was unfair.
Area 3  She thought RSA had acted reasonably, and said that the weight of expert 
evidence pointing towards the removal of the tree outweighed Mr B and Ms Rs concerns 
about felling and subsequent heave.
With regard to Mr B and Ms Rs complaint that the claim had been poorly handled, the 
investigator noted that the claim had been logged incorrectly at the start. But she didnt think 
thered been any unreasonable delays or poor communication, and pointed out that 
insurance claims can be inherently inconvenient and stressful.
Responses to the view
Mr B and Ms R didnt accept this. They said they remained open minded about the cause of 
the damage in Area 1 but considered it should still be covered by their policy. They accepted 
that soil and root pressure is the likely cause of damage to Area 2, but said this should also 
be covered because its damaging the flagstones in the laundry room of their house. They 
also expressed concern that RSA might be using Area 3 as an excuse to remove the tree 
rather than accepting their claims for Areas 1 and 2. Finally, they said they fear removing the 
tree will itself have a detrimental effect on the house and are concerned about the future 
insurance position.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Further information
Mr B and Ms R explained that when the damage in Area 1 was repaired this included new 
mass concrete strip footing. The Virginia Creeper was also removed into large pots. There 
have been no further signs of damage since the repairs were done. They also told me that 
none of the other walls in the basement have suffered a similar problem.
Mr B and Ms R also provided me with photographs of the laundry room floor which they said 
was being damaged by the same cause as the damage in Area 2.
RSA also provided some further comments. They said that the cracked render detailed in As 
drawings is not consistent with subsidence damage or the operation of other insured perils. 
Irregular cracking, de-bonding or crazing of render finishes, with no distinct pattern is due to 
one, or a combination of different non subsidence related causes. They also commented 
that the trial pit dug by A simply exposed shallow foundations on clay soils with roots and 
did not establish that subsidence had occurred.
With regard to the laundry room floor, RSA said that this original flagstone flooring was 
traditionally laid directly onto the ground without sub-base. So, they said its not unusual for 
roots to be present underneath, or for the floor to become uneven over time, and neither 
indicates the presence of subsidence or heave.In March 2021 Mr B and Ms R informed us that the Plane tree had been felled without 
notice. RSA confirmed this had been arranged by the local council.
My provisional decision
Having considered all the available evidence, I agreed with the investigator that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld, but I wanted to provide more detail about that decision. So, I 
issued a provisional decision on 11 May 2021 giving both parties a further opportunity to 
respond. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, although I know 
Mr B and Ms R will be deeply disappointed, I dont intend to uphold it. Ill explain why 
and, for ease of reference, Ill set out my decision in relation to each area of damage.
Area 1  the central pier between the basement windows
In cases such as this its for the policy holder to show that an insured event has 
happened. So, Ive looked at what Mr B and Ms R have said about Area 1 carefully, 
and Ive examined their experts, As, reports in detail. But the evidence theyve 
presented doesnt lead me to conclude its more likely than not the bricks separated 
and fell in as the result of subsidence or heave. And so, I dont think RSAs 
assessment that the damage wasnt caused by subsidence is unfair.
For this claim to be successful thered have to be firm evidence of downward 
movement (subsidence) or upward and/or lateral movement (heave) of the site on 
which the buildings stand.
A says that the property is founded on shrinkable clay and that Virginia Creeper 
roots and dry weather followed by wetter weather in 2018 probably caused the clay 
to shrink and then expand leading to cyclical movement of the foundations and 
delamination of the wall. In support of their finding of subsidence they refer to 
cracking in the external render, observe that paving in this area has lifted and refer to 
the proximity of the Plane tree. But I dont think A has provided enough detail to show 
subsidence is more likely than not the cause here.
RSAs expert has also inspected the property. And theyve concluded that there is no 
evidence of downward movement in Area 1. Theyve said this because the pattern 
and nature of the cracks is random and not consistent with foundation movement. 
Theyve highlighted that cracking with no distinct pattern can have several non-
subsidence related causes. RSA have also explained that the findings from the trial 
pit (Virginia Creeper roots and shallow foundations) do not, on their own, establish 
that theres been recent or current downward movement. RSAs expert has said the 
delamination is possibly the result of age-related decay. And having looked at the 
photographs the images do appear to be consistent with that possibility.
So, Im inclined to conclude that As conclusions about whats happened arent 
supported by firm evidence, and that what RSAs expert has said is more persuasive. 
Indeed, I note that the policy holders have said theyre open minded about the cause 
of the damage in Area 1; suggesting theyre not convinced its subsidence related 
themselves.
Mr B and Ms R do, however, believe that the damage should still be covered even if 
it is, as RSAs expert suggested, caused by a gradual age-related process which 
didnt become apparent until the bricks started to lean on the plaster board and create a gap. But if that was the cause of the delamination, I think it would still be 
excluded from cover by the general policy exclusion for damage caused by wear and 
tear. And it wouldnt fit the policy definition of accidental damage either, as the bricks 
delaminated and leant on the plasterboard over time, not suddenly.
It follows that I currently dont think RSA have acted unfairly by declining Mr B and 
Ms Rs claim for Area 1.
Area 2  the retaining wall to the north of the propertys lightwell
Having considered the expert opinion from both parties about Area 2 I think theres a 
substantial degree of agreement that the damage to the retaining wall is being 
caused by lateral pressure which involves the roots of the Plane tree growing at 
street level. Ive seen no evidence that this wall is moving downwards (subsiding).
A, Mr B and Ms Rs expert, has said that hed be surprised if there wasnt also 
subsidence affecting this wall, but I dont think his comment about that is enough to 
say theres evidence of downward movement of the retaining walls foundations. 
Particularly when he doesnt appear to have disagreed with RSAs view that the 
pattern and nature of the cracks is not consistent with vertical foundation movement 
 As said the cracking of this wall is due to lateral pressure from the trees roots.
But in either scenario  whether the damage here is being caused by lateral pressure 
or both lateral pressure and vertical movement of the foundations  I provisionally 
find that this isnt damage which is covered under the policy; and thats for two 
reasons.
Firstly, the lateral movement involved here is not of the site on which the [insured] 
buildings stand. Its the ground under the public pavement, where the Plane tree 
grows, which is moving. Given that it must be the site Mr B and Ms Rs property 
stands on that is moving laterally, and that isnt the case here, Im currently satisfied 
RSA has acted fairly by saying Area 2 isnt covered under the policy.
Secondly, a perimeter wall damaged by subsidence or heave isnt covered under the 
policy unless the insured home is damaged by the same cause and at the same 
time. In acknowledgement of this term, Mr B and Ms R have sought to show that the 
lateral pressure pushing the retaining wall is also damaging the laundry room floor. 
But I havent seen persuasive evidence which shows the most likely cause of the 
damage in the laundry room area is vertical or sideways movement of the ground the 
site is on.
There isnt any expert evidence that confirms this or provides reasoning as to why 
they think this is the most likely scenario. And whilst photos have been provided of 
the laundry room, these arent clear on the damage or cause  having no expert 
commentary on this. But, of course, if Mr B and Ms R wish to provide an expert report 
which confirms the presence of an insured peril affecting the laundry room floor, Id 
take that into account before finalising my decision.
Area 3 - the newer extension at the rear of the house
RSA have accepted that the damage in this area is covered under the policy as its 
considered to be caused by subsidence. So, the dispute here is confined to whether 
the remedy (removal of vegetation including the Plane tree) is proportionate. Mr B 
and Ms R are also concerned about whether RSA will cover/assume responsibility for 
any problems which might result in future from the removal of the tree.Whilst I do sympathise with Mr B and Ms Rs concern that a tree, which they consider 
to be valuable to the local environment, should only be removed if necessary, I 
consider that the weight of professional evidence has recommended that the tree be 
removed. Both A and RSAs experts agreed on this point. And RSA maintained this 
position after the period of monitoring which took place between October 2019 and 
April 2020. I therefore provisionally find RSAs decision to arrange removal of the tree 
before proceeding with the works to remedy the damage in Area 3, a fair and 
reasonable one. I note that RSA have also tried several times to reassure Mr B and 
Ms R about this course of action, responding to their policyholders concerns.
Mr B and Ms R have remained concerned about what will happen in the future 
despite RSAs reassurances. But I cant make findings about something that hasnt 
happened yet. I can only say that RSAs decision to arrange removal of the tree is 
reasonable. If Mr B or Ms R identifies an issue resulting (or possibly resulting) from 
the trees removal in the future, they will need to raise that with RSA in the first 
instance.
I also dont think RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably by letting Mr B and Ms R know 
that if they continued to ask for deferral of the trees removal (should that be possible 
given that the tree belonged to the local council, not the policyholders), they might 
remove subsidence cover going forward. Policyholders have an obligation to mitigate 
risk and once a causal factor in damage has been identified its not unreasonable to 
expect that risk to be managed in line with expert recommendations. If its not 
managed because a policyholder objects to the proposed management plan, then its 
for an insurer to review whether it can continue to accept that risk at the point of 
renewal.
Claim handling
Mr B and Ms R also complain that RSA have failed to handle their claim efficiently, 
that communication has been poor throughout, and that the process of making the 
claim has been chaotic and unpleasant. For example, theyve explained that their 
claim was initially logged incorrectly, that communication with RSAs experts about 
site visits has been poor, that they werent kept updated about RSAs discussions 
with the local council (particularly about potential legal action), that theyve often felt 
like theyre the ones co-ordinating everything (receiving contact from several different 
parties), and that theyve been unfairly accused of blocking the removal of the 
Plane tree.
I agree that the claim didnt get off to a good start because of an error on RSAs part; 
they mistook Mr Bs description of the damage in Area 1 as relating to a garden wall 
and rejected it. This caused an initial delay meaning that RSAs expert didnt visit the 
site until mid-August 2019. But very shortly after that visit I find that Mr B and Ms R 
were clearly informed of the outcome of their claim, and the need for a period of 
investigation and monitoring in relation to Area 3.
Aside from that initial error and some slow responses from RSA at times (it took RSA 
almost two months to send Mr B and Ms R the monitoring data they requested in 
August 2020, and the policyholders had to chase a response to an email they sent to 
RSAs experts in September 2020 about questions they wanted answers to prior to a 
further site visit), Ive seen nothing in RSAs handling of the claim to suggest Mr B 
and Ms Rs experience has been unusual or unreasonable in the circumstances.In the context of a dispute between the parties about insurance cover and the plan 
for remedying the damage in Area 3, I think a certain amount of frustration and 
dissatisfaction was to be expected. I accept that at times Mr B and Ms R have found 
themselves in the middle of communications between the insurer, the experts and 
the local council. But thats inevitable when those communications are about their 
property. These types of case are complex, can be time-consuming and necessarily 
involve multiple parties.
With regard to RSAs description of the policy holders as blocking the removal of 
the Plane tree, I do appreciate that this wording upset Mr B and Ms R deeply. 
Theyve said it was a serious and inaccurate allegation. But Ive seen nothing to 
suggest this description was intended maliciously or to influence our review of the 
case; I read it as a shorthand, albeit blunt, way of RSA summarising the position in 
July 2020  the position at that point being that tree works had been deferred as Mr B 
and Ms R were cautious about that action going ahead.
So, I dont think RSA have failed significantly in their handling of the claim. Its usual 
for an insurer to delegate much of the ongoing correspondence about a claim to their 
experts. Its also usual for an insurer to communicate with a local council, and talk 
about potential legal action, if something within the councils control is identified as 
posing a risk to the insured property. The Claims conditions of the policy explained 
that RSA reserved the right to start legal action against third parties in the policy 
holders name/s.
Its also not unreasonable for RSA to expect the policyholders to be involved in 
arranging the experts visits to their property. And Mr B and Ms Rs dissatisfaction 
that those experts didnt continue to review Areas 1 and 2 is down to the rejection of 
those parts of the claim earlier on, not an issue of claim handling.
Overall, I dont agree that RSAs handling of this claim has been poor since July 2019 
when their initial error was rectified. Whilst Im sorry that Mr B and Ms R have found 
the whole process slow and frustrating, I think much of their experience is inherent to 
any contested claim of this nature.
Responses to my provisional decision
In reply to my provisional decision RSA said they had nothing further to add.
Mr B and Ms R accepted that there is no evidence of subsidence in Area 1 or Area 2 but 
described themselves as irritated by the exclusions relied on to decline their claim, and 
asked me to consider the following points:
They said the problem they experienced in Area 1 was unusual  just the kind of 
unexpected event for which we take out insurance and the provisional decision 
didnt set out the evidential basis for age/wear and tear being the cause. They said 
age/wear and tear are being used to deny a claim for a sudden and unexpected 
event.
They said the lateral pressure causing the damage in Area 2 is affecting the 
flagstones in the lightwell and the laundry room, and should be covered because the 
policy covers all forms of earth pressure and RSAs loss adjuster who inspected the 
site in mid-August 2019 confirmed that lateral pressure had led to the upward 
buckling of the path between the retaining wall and the main wall of the house. They 
said, there is no distinction between the paving in the area/light well, and that in the 
laundry room which is part of the house.They remain concerned about their future insurance premiums and would like to 
know that these will not increase as a result of RSAs acceptance of the claim for 
Area 3  where the movement has never been a concern to them.
Theyd like confirmation that RSA will be liable should the removal of the Plane tree 
result in damage to the house.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I understand Mr B and Ms R are likely to be disappointed, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision. Once again, for ease of reference I will set 
out my decision against each area of damage.
Area 1  the central pier between the basement windows
As Mr B and Ms R accept there is no evidence of subsidence causing the damage in Area 1, 
I wont repeat what I said about that in my provisional decision. Mr B and Ms R, however, 
remain of the view that their claim for this area should be covered under the Accidental 
Damage part of their policy as this responds to sudden, unexpected and visible damage 
which has not been caused on purpose. They feel strongly about this matter and believe 
they had a reasonable expectation of cover.
Most insurance policies only cover the events that the insurer wishes to be on risk for. This 
means that there will be events that arent covered at all, and other events which are 
covered but might be subject to exclusions and/or limitations. So, its the policy terms I must 
consider when deciding whether RSA has dealt with the claim fairly. This is why I made 
reference to the relevant parts of the Accidental Damage cover above, and in my provisional 
decision.
Whilst I understand Mr B and Ms Rs perspective about their cover for Area 1 because their 
discovery of the damage was unexpected and sudden, I cant agree that theres any 
evidence that the damage which caused the sheet of brick work to fall was sudden. I cant 
fairly say that a sudden event caused the brick work to separate, and I think its more likely 
the delamination (a process whereby bricks separate from the bricks behind them) 
happened over time. Although I do appreciate that what happened was not expected by the 
policyholders and not caused on purpose.
Mr B and Ms R have said that there is no evidential basis for age/wear and tear being the 
cause for the bricks delaminating. But the point here is that Mr B and Ms R havent been 
able to provide anything to suggest an insured event (for example, subsidence or accidental 
damage) caused the problem in Area 1. And without evidence of an insured event I dont 
think it was unreasonable of RSAs expert to say the delamination occurred gradually and 
was possibly the result of age-related decay. So, for all the reasons set out here, and in my 
provisional decision, I find that RSA declined the claim for Area 1 fairly in line with the terms 
of the policy.
Area 2  the retaining wall to the north of the propertys lightwellAgain, as Mr B and Ms R accept there is no evidence of subsidence causing the damage in 
Area 2, I wont repeat what I said about that in my provisional decision and will focus instead 
on what theyve said regarding the relationship between the damage in Area 2 and the 
damage to the flooring of their basement laundry room.
Mr B and Ms R maintain that the damaged perimeter retaining wall (and the paved area 
within the lightwell) should be covered under their policy because the insured home  
specifically the laundry room  is being damaged by the same cause and at the same time. 
They say, the flooring in the laundry room and the paving in the lightwell cannot be 
distinguished from one another. But, having thought carefully about what theyve said, I still 
dont think RSA have yet been provided with any evidence that the damage to the laundry 
room flooring has been caused by an insured event.
I agree that RSAs expert found that lateral pressure pushing the foundations of the bowed 
retaining wall towards the house has led to the upward buckling of the path between the 
retaining wall and the main wall of the house, but that report makes no comment on the 
flooring in the laundry room. And I dont think this finding by RSAs expert can be taken as 
evidence that heave (upward and/or lateral movement) is damaging the laundry room floor.
The photographs Ive seen of the buckled paving in the lightwell suggest a correlation 
between the walls movement and the upward movement of the paving slabs  the paving 
slabs no longer lay flat in the area in front of the bowed wall because theyre being pushed 
together and upwards. But the photographs of the laundry room flagstones dont 
demonstrate a similar pattern of movement there. Ive also seen no evidence that the 
foundations of the laundry room wall (which is in line with the retaining wall outside but is an 
internal wall) are being pushed towards the house. Indeed, Mr B and Ms R have previously 
told me that the wall of the laundry room is fine; so, there is no evidence that the laundry 
room wall is bowed or that its foundations have moved in a way thats similar to whats 
happened to the retaining wall outside.
So, I remain of the view set out in my provisional decision. I dont think the damage to Area 2 
is covered because, although there is evidence of lateral earth pressure, the lateral 
movement is not of the site on which the buildings stand, and because its a retaining wall 
and paved area that have been damaged by this lateral pressure. Those structures (walls, 
patios, paved terraces, footpaths etc) arent covered under the policy unless the insured 
home is damaged by the same cause and at the same time, and I dont agree that what 
Mr B and Ms R have put forward regarding the laundry room floor amounts to evidence of 
damage caused by an insured event.
It follows that Id dont think RSA have acted unfairly by declining their claim in respect of 
Area 2.
Future insurance premiums and future liability
Finally, with regard to Mr B and Ms Rs concerns about their future insurance premiums and 
RSAs liability if the Plane trees removal causes problems for their home in the future, I can 
only repeat what I said in my provisional decision. The trees removal was endorsed by 
experts from both sides in this case and, on that basis, I cant say RSAs decision to arrange 
removal of the tree was an unreasonable one.
If the trees removal causes, or is suspected to have caused, problems in the future, Mr B 
and Ms R will have to raise that with the parties involved in its removal, including RSA. 
I cant make findings about something that hasnt happened yet, nor can I direct RSA to 
accept responsibility for something that hasnt happened yet. Similarly, I cant make findings 
about Mr B and Ms Rs future insurance premiums. If, at the point of renewal, Mr B and Ms R are unhappy with the cost of their insurance policy it will be open to them to shop around and 
to make a separate complaint about any increase they consider to be unfair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs and Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman