DRN-3314900
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund a £10,000 payment he says he 
made as a result of fraud.
What happened
What Mr F says
Mr F says he wanted to send funds to his account abroad. He tried to make debit card 
payments to a money transfer company from his Lloyds account, but they were declined. Mr 
F wasnt given a reason for this. As he was experiencing problems, Mr F called the money 
transfer company in July 2021. He says that an agent at that company said the transfer 
could be completed manually instead and generated a contact in the app for him to send 
money to. The contact was in the name of someone Ill refer to as A. Mr F says he was 
advised to make the payment to A and the money transfer company would forward it to his 
account abroad, but this never happened. 
Mr F says the agent he spoke to at the money transfer company got him to transfer funds 
fraudulently. He would like Lloyds to refund the £10,000 he lost. 
What Lloyds say
Lloyds say it cant consider Mr Fs complaint under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code because his payment was made to his own account and isnt covered by the 
Code.  And after considering the information Lloyds received from the money transfer 
company Lloyds said there was insufficient evidence to conclude the payment was as a 
result of fraud. Lloyds explained it could only consider Mr Fs complaint as a scam if there 
was evidence the agent at the money transfer service deliberately set the payment up to a 
different account. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Fs complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
said that shed listened to the recording of the call Mr F had with the money transfer 
company and was satisfied Mr F set up the payments to A himself and that although the 
company pointed this out to Mr F, he continued to make the payment. She felt Mr F made a 
mistake when he made the payment. The investigator also said that the £10,000 payment 
wasnt so unusual shed expect Lloyds to step in and ask Mr F questions about it as hed 
made similar payments shortly before. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision. He still felt he was the 
victim of a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has raised a complaint about the money transfer company which Ive considered 
separately. 
Ive not seen any evidence that leads me to believe Mr F is the victim of a scam. Ive had the 
opportunity to listen to the call recording with the money transfer company when Mr F says 
the scam happened and have also seen evidence from that company and am satisfied Mr F 
completed the steps to process the transaction himself, including choosing the recipient. Im 
also persuaded Mr F was warned multiple times that he wasnt paying his own account. As I 
dont consider Mr F was the victim of a scam, I cant consider any possible remedy available 
to a victim of a scam.
Ive also considered whether Mr Fs payment was so unusual and out of character given his 
usual account activity that Lloyds should have asked him proportionate questions about it. 
Having considered Mr Fs bank statements for the 12-month period before the payment Im 
not satisfied it was. Mr F made multiple payments for similar amounts in the months before 
the £10,000 payment he has complained about. The payment reference was also Mr Fs 
name. So, I think the payment was in line with Mr Fs normal account activity and I dont 
believe Lloyds had any reason to be concerned.
I also dont consider Lloyds could have done anything to recover Mr Fs lost funds. Mr F sent 
the funds to a money transfer company, so it was up to that company to attempt to recover 
them. In any event, the funds were removed from the payee account before Mr F reported 
the problem.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of Mr Fs loss, I cant conclude Lloyds has acted 
unreasonably or should do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman