DRN-4130440
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) increasing 
the premiums on renewal of their pet insurance policy.
References to RSA include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr M took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for their dog through RSA in 
September 2017, at an annual premium of £299.19. They believed the premium was fixed 
(and werent provided with information about premiums increasing over time). Since the 
policy was taken out, the premiums increased at subsequent annual renewals, as follows:
Date Premium Increase
over previous year
2018 £388.71 29.9%
2019 £427.57 10.0% 
2020 £468.05 9.5%
2021 £905.14 93.4%
2022 £1,013.77 12.0%
Unhappy at the increase in premiums, thinking they were fixed when they took out he policy, 
they challenged RSA. RSA treated it as a [stage one] complaint. RSA responded that when 
setting premiums they considered several factors, some specific to the pet insured, others 
more generally to pet insurance policies. In respect of the former, RSA noted they would 
take account of the dogs age and breed, as well as the claims history (including, where a 
claim was made, the likelihood of that claim occurring again within the next 12 months) and 
the area in which a policyholder lived. All these factors would mean an increase in premium 
in most years.
RSA also referred to a claim in June 2020 for the £3,000 policy limit for vet fees, saying it led 
to a large premium increase at the following renewal. But RSA acknowledged when the 
policy was taken out, they may not have set out these factors (and the consequent increase 
in premiums) as clearly as they could have done. RSA awarded £50 in the period 202/21 as 
an apology (but the cheque wasnt cashed).
Unhappy at RSAs response, Mrs M and Mr M asked for their complaint to be escalated (to 
stage 2). RSA partly upheld the complaint. In their final response they said the policy wasnt 
issued on the basis the premiums would be fixed, referring to welcome documents when the 
policy was taken out. So, they didnt accept the policy had been mis-sold to Mrs M and Mr M. 
Regarding the increase in premium at the first renewal, RSA said the renewal premium was 
correct and in line with the risk analysis. The premium reflected factors including the age of 
the pet and its breed, the claims history and average vet bills in Mrs M and Mr Ms area. As 
Mrs M and Mr M made a claim, RSA noted a pet where a claim had been made was more at 
risk of needing further treatment for future conditions (either for the same condition, or a 
different condition). There was also the risk where a pre-existing condition hadnt been 
declared, which RSA reflected in all renewal premiums. 
However, RSA recognised the increase in premium may have come as a surprise to Mrs M 
and Mr M. Given this, and as a way of apologising for the upset it may have caused, they 
awarded compensation of £250.
Mrs M and Mr M then complained to this service, saying the policy had been mis-sold to 
them when taken out. They also thought the premium at renewal had been unreasonably 
and unjustifiably increased. This had affected them financially by having to pay a significantly 
increased premium. They wanted RSA to fix the monthly premium at £24.93 and/or to offer 
compensation. They also wanted the premium to be reduced to what they thought was a 
market facing (competitive) figure.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding there was no evidence to suggest 
the policy had been mis-sold as a fixed premium policy and that RSA had made Mrs M and 
Mr M aware that premiums could and would increase over time. He also thought RSA had 
assessed the risk in the policy and set premiums in line with that. He also thought RSAs 
ward of £250 compensation for RSA accepting premium increases could have been 
explained better was reasonable. So he concluded RSA hadnt done anything wrong, so 
wouldnt be asking them to do anything further.
Mrs M and Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint.  In disagreeing, they referred to the covering letter and 
Schedule of Insurance issued when the policy was taken out indicating what they thought 
was a fixed premium and the policy summary and policy wording they thought didnt clearly 
indicate future premiums would increase. They also questioned why RSA awarded 
compensation of £50 in 2020/21, thinking it was as admission that policyholders had been 
misled. They also restated their concern at the premium rising from £299.19 when taken out 
to £1,013.77 in 2022 (when cover was limited to £3,000 per year). This was an increase of 
239% over the period, which they thought unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mrs M and Mr M. 
The main issues in Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint are, firstly, they believe they were mis-sold 
the policy at its inception in 2017. Specifically they say they thought the policy premium was 
fixed (so, it wouldnt change  or increase). RSA say Mrs M and Mr M were aware that 
premiums werent fixed and were subject to change, as set out in policy documentation they 
were provided with when they took out the policy. 
The second issue is the significant increase in premiums at renewal following the policy 
inception. Mrs M and Mr M think the premium at renewal has been unreasonably and 
unjustifiably increased. RSA say the renewal premium(s) are correct and in line with the risk 
analysis. They refer to various factors affecting renewal premiums, including the age of the 
pet and its breed, the claims history and average vet bills in Mrs M and Mr Ms area. They 
also refer to the specific impact of the claim made by Mrs M and Mr M, noting a pet where a 
claim had been made was more at risk of needing further treatment for future conditions 
(either for the same condition, or a different condition). There was also the risk where a pre-
existing condition hadnt been declared.On the first issue, whether the policy was mis-sold at inception, as Mrs M and Mr M thought 
the premiums would be fixed, Ive considered both views carefully, including the supporting 
information and evidence. Given the elapse of time since the policy was taken out, RSA 
havent retained the relevant call recording(s). So, it isnt possible to determine what Mrs M 
and Mr M may have been told, or what they understood to be the case.
However, I have considered what RSA have said about what Mrs M and Mr M would have 
been provided with by way of policy documentation when the policy was taken out. There 
would also have been the cooling off period during which Mrs M and Mr M could have 
cancelled the policy if they were unhappy at the terms offered (including the premium). 
Based on this, Ive concluded it was clear to Mrs M and Mr M the policy premium wasnt 
fixed and would be subject to change (at subsequent policy renewals). I recognise this will 
be disappointing to Mrs M and Mr M, so Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
In their final response, RSA say the policy schedule states the policy is an annual insurance 
contract. While this doesnt explicitly state that premiums are subject to change (and not 
fixed) I think the term indicates premiums would be subject to change. RSA also refer to the 
following extract from the policy document issued alongside the policy schedule: 
We can choose not to offer renewal of a policy. If we do. We would let you know in 
advance of your renewal date so that you have enough time to make alternative 
insurance arrangements.
This does not mean that your premium, excess, benefits and policy terms and 
condition will not change. Treatment fees that vets charge increase yearly and the 
number of visits to the vet can increase as pet gets older.
If your premium excess, benefits or policy terms and conditions change, we will 
always provide full details to you before your renewal date.
RSA also refer to similar policy terms about renewals.
Insurers have a duty to provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. I think this 
wording makes it clear premiums are not fixed and are subject to change (increase) over the 
life of the policy. Nor have I seen any evidence from Mrs M and Mr M to support their view 
that the policy premiums were fixed. The above wording also indicates premiums are subject 
to change and the references to treatment fees increasing and numbers of visits to the vet 
increasing as the pet grows older further indicate premiums are likely to increase. 
In responding to our investigators view, Mrs M and Mr M refer to the covering letter and 
schedule of insurance issued when the policy was taken out, where the annual premium of 
£299.19 was set out. However, I dont agree this could reasonably be interpreted to mean 
the premium was fixed. I say this because its clear it is an annual premium (not a lifetime 
premium). Together with a renewal date being stated (and the extract above from the policy 
document indicating the premium can change) I think this makes it clear the premium is an 
annual one, subject to change (and not fixed).
However, RSA have accepted the information could have been clearer and I agree. It could 
have highlighted that
The premium will almost certainly increase year on year and as the pet gets 
older these increases can be significant; and
The increases are not capped so theres no limit on how much the policy might 
increase by.Ive then considered the second issue, whether the increase in premiums since the policy 
was taken out are (as Mrs M and Mr M believe) unreasonable and unjustifiable). In doing so, 
Ive considered all the renewals since the policy was taken out.
RSA have supplied the detailed rating factors applied to the calculation of Mrs M and Mr Ms 
renewal premiums since the policy was taken out. While this is commercially sensitive, it 
indicates the main factors underpinning the increase in premiums were:
the age of the dog increasing each year;
claims inflation;
reassessment of risk (and removal of new business discount): and
a general review of rates, changing RSAs view of risk.
It also indicates the impact of the claim made in 2020 on the subsequent renewal premium 
(93%). Given the size of the claim, together with RSAs point about the likelihood of future 
claims (either for the same condition or a different condition) I dont think such a significant 
increase should have been unexpected at the following renewal. 
Alongside this, its also a commercial decision by RSA about how they set premiums and the 
factors they take account of (and the weighting/loading of those factors).  Its not for me to 
tell insurers how to price their policies but I do need to make sure theyre treating all their 
customers consistently and fairly.
Taking this into account, Ive concluded RSA have calculated the renewal premium in 
accordance with their approach to setting renewal premiums. So, Ive concluded they 
havent acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M and Mr M as they have been treated 
consistently with RSAs general approach. I recognise Mrs M and Mr M are concerned at a 
239% increase in the premium between 2017 and 2022, but as Ive set out above, I dont 
think RSA have acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Ive also considered Mrs M and Mr Ms point about the £50 compensation awarded by RSA 
This was an acknowledgement that when the policy was taken out, they may not have set 
out the factors affecting premiums (and the consequent increase in premiums) as clearly as 
they could have done. As an acknowledgment that their communication could have been 
better, I think thats reasonable  but I dont agree it indicates Mrs M and Mr M were misled 
(for the reasons Ive set out above).
As mentioned above, the information at the point of sale didnt highlight the extent to which 
premiums might increase. And RSA have  acknowledged they didnt make it as clear as they 
could have done when the policy was taken out that premiums would subsequently increase. 
From the evidence and information Ive seen, I agree this is the case.
Its likely Mrs M and M would still have taken out the policy even if the information had been 
clearer. They wanted the more comprehensive cover offered by a lifetime policy. And if they 
had looked for a policy elsewhere, it would also have been subject to increased premiums as 
their pet got older. In the circumstances of the case, I think £250 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable, and I would expect RSA to pay the sum 
(if they havent already done so). 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms 
complaint.Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay Mrs M and Mr M 
£250 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay £250.
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman