DRN-3629985
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way Domestic and General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled his claim 
under his boiler protection policy. In particular, he says he is unhappy with delays and the 
amount of time the property was left without heating or hot water.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R is understandably unhappy that after reporting a fault with his boiler on              
9 November 2021, he was being asked to wait until at least 23 November 2021 
before the issue could be resolved. (this was after two previous visits by an engineer 
and an order of parts had failed to resolve the issue). 
Mr R accepted D&Gs offer to write off the boiler and pay him the £750 replacement 
limit that the policy provided for. However, after this had been agreed on                  
18 November 2021, he was unhappy when he hadnt received the payment by        
10 December 2021. 
D&G have paid Mr R £195 compensation for the initial delays and unsuccessful 
appointments. They have also paid Mr R a further £60 compensation for the delay in 
sending him the £750 and for sending it as a cheque rather than the requested BACS 
payment. Considering the circumstances and the impact this had on Mr R, I think this 
is fair. 
I can see that an attempt to fix the boiler was made on 12 November 2021, with 
spare parts ordered and chased on 13 and 15 November 2021, before arriving on   
18 November 2021. Whilst I understand how frustrating this will have been for Mr R 
and his tenants, I think D&G were doing all they could, as quickly as they could, to 
resolve the issue at this point. Unfortunately, the installing of the spare parts didnt 
resolve the matter, but I havent seen enough evidence to conclude that they 
shouldnt have been ordered, or that an attempt to repair was unreasonable. 
I think D&G then acted fairly in offering to write-off the boiler and pay the policy 
replacement limit of £750 (despite a lack of evidence to show it couldnt be repaired). 
Mr R has said that tenants moved out of the property due to the time without heating 
and hot water and he wants to be compensated for a loss of rent. However, the 
policy doesnt provide protection for loss of rent. D&G arent responsible for the boiler 
breaking down, only the repair. 
Whilst I understand there was a delay of up to a few days in resolving the issue, I 
cant safely conclude that it was solely this delay that saw the tenants move out. It 
therefore wouldnt be fair to ask D&G to compensate Mr R for any loss of rent. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Rs frustration, I do not uphold this complaint 
and I think the compensation already paid is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. The 
compensation already paid by Domestic & General Insurance Plc is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman