DRN-3666496
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British 
Steel (BSPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP.) He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr B was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so around August 2017 he approached CST for advice. CST 
completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Bs circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr B was 44; he was married with one dependent 
child (he also had a step child); he jointly owned his home which had an outstanding 
mortgage of around £58,000 with a remaining term of 12 years; he had a loan of around 
£8,000; he had no savings or investments to speak of; and he wanted to retire between 57 
and 60. CST also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
medium although Mr B appears to have been amended this to moderately cautious - the 
ultimate investment recommendation was deemed to be a cautious approach.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Around the same time Mr B met with CST again and shortly afterwards, on 31 October 2017, 
CST advised Mr B to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and invest the proceeds using 
the services of a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
In summary, the suitability report said the main reasons for this recommendation were to 
provide Mr B with flexibility  the opportunity to withdraw income and/or lump sums in a tax-
efficient manner as and when required  and to improve death benefits by enabling Mr B to 
leave the residual balance of his pension fund to his beneficiaries. 
CST also recommended that Mr B invest his excess income into his personal pension to 
provide tax efficiency and the potential for a larger capital sum. 
Mr B accepted the recommendation and in March 2018 around £339,600 was transferred to 
his new SIPP.
Mr B complained to CST in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice, using the 
services of a representative. Mr B said he believed he should not have been advised to 
transfer his pension benefits to a private arrangement as he was unlikely to be able to match 
the benefits he was giving up by transferring.
CST didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It provided a substantive 12-page response. While I 
have read it in full, I havent set everything out here. But it included detailing its regulatory 
requirements at the time, the background to the BSPS, a detailed account of Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives at the time, including how Mr B wanted to be able to gradually 
reduce his working hours adopting a phased retirement stage and a detailed account of the 
investment strategy recommended. It also provided cashflow modelling to demonstrate that, 
in its view, the recommendation could meet Mr Bs income need based on the annualised 
growth rate the portfolio had achieved. It said Mr B couldnt achieve the flexibility to vary his 
pension income, take a cash lump sum and defer taking an income or provide for his 
daughter by remaining in the DB scheme  whether the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
CST also set out why it believed the advice was suitable for Mr B. In summary it said Mr B 
could withdraw a lump sum of £100,000 at age 57, withdraw flexible amounts to facilitate a 
phased retirement and potentially reduce his withdrawals from age 67 by transferring. It said 
if Mr B wanted to reduce his pension income in favour of providing a legacy for his family, at 
age 80 the sum would be around £980,000. It said the cost of insurance cover to provide this 
amount would be around £1,300 a month. It said there is no evidence Mr B has suffered a 
loss as a result of the transfer.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr B referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required CST to pay compensation. In summary they said the 
transfer wasnt financially viable because the growth rate required to match Mr Bs DB 
scheme benefits wasnt likely achievable. They said Mr B was likely to receive lower 
retirement benefits as a result. They also said there were no other compelling reasons to 
justify the transfer as being suitable: Mr B was 44 at the time, so his plans for retirement 
werent set  there was no need for him to make an irreversible decision to give up his 
guaranteed benefits; he didnt need flexibility albeit he already had flexibility in retirement 
because he was contributing to his workplace Defined Contribution (DC) pension scheme, 
which wouldve provided flexibility to retire early if thats what he ultimately decided; death 
benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over his income need in retirement; and they 
expressed concerns about the accuracy and reliability of the attitude to risk assessment 
carried out because there were too many inconsistencies in Mr Bs responses to the 
questions posed, some of which indicated he wasnt willing or comfortable investing. They 
said if suitable advice had been given, Mr B wouldve likely remained in the DB scheme and 
moved to the BSPS2.
CST disagreed. It provided a detailed response, which again while I have read it in full, I 
havent set it all out here. In summary it said, Mr Bs highest priority was maximum tax-free 
cash and the lowest was a guaranteed income for life. It said Mr B wanted access to a lump 
sum at age 57 and to have continued to work until age 60. It said the BSPS2 was not 
guaranteed to go ahead at the time, so this might have been the only opportunity Mr B had 
to transfer. It asked if the investigator had used the FCAs Defined Benefit Advice 
Assessment Tool (DBAAT) guidance in reaching their assessment. 
It said it believed its cash modelling demonstrates a strong financial outcome, which it says 
the investigator has ignored. 
It provided various examples referring to the analysis it provided in its final response letter 
including, at an annual growth rate of 4.68% (less than the average annualised return of the 
portfolio) Mr B could match his scheme benefits and at age 80 still have a pension pot of 
over £900,000. Or based on a growth rate of 1.38% - what it described as a bank account rate  Mr Bs DB scheme benefits could be matched until age 90.
It also said it disagreed with the investigators point about death benefits. It said if Mr B died 
before age 75 his wife wouldve received 50% of his scheme pension which wouldve been 
taxable compared to inheriting the whole of Mr Bs pension without payment of tax. It said it 
wouldve cost over £900 a month to provide similar death benefits through a whole of life 
policy. It said it also wanted to appeal against the use of the BSPS2 as a comparator in 
calculating compensation because it was not in existence at the time  the PPF should be 
the basis of any redress calculation. 
Mr Bs representative accepted the investigators opinion. They added that it should be made 
clear that the loss calculation should be based on Mr B taking his retirement benefits at age 
65. And they said the 15% deduction in the redress payable, to take into account the tax 
Mr B would've paid had this been taken as income, is unfair as it doesn't account for the 
charges that would've been deducted from the fund value over that time. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They replied to CST saying they 
wanted to clarify that, the financial projections didnt automatically make the transfer suitable 
or mean it was in Mr Bs best interests. They said there were key reasons why they thought 
Mr B shouldve retained his safeguarded benefits, including the fact Mr B didnt have other 
major assets, his answers on the attitude to risk assessment indicated he wanted the 
security and guarantee of income and flexibility couldve been provided by his DC scheme. 
They said the FCAs advice checker was a useful tool, but theyd also considered things 
more broadly. They also said in their opinion the information available at the time indicated 
the BSPS2 would go ahead, so they thought it was appropriate to use it as the redress 
comparator.
CST replied. They again provided a lengthy response. They repeated many of the points 
theyd already made. And in addition they said, its not evident that the investigator 
determined the case by reference to whether CST took reasonable steps to ensure its 
recommendation was suitable for Mr B  COBS 9.2.1R. They said the investigator failed to 
place adequate weight on the fact Mr B made a fully informed decision. They said unfounded 
assumptions about causation were made and there is no evidence Mr B has suffered a loss. 
They also said the investigator placed disproportionate weight on the critical yield and 
reference to the discount rate was not a requirement at the time.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
For the sake of clarity, I can see CST has referred on several occasions to its requirement to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave was suitable for Mr B. And I agree that 
under COBS, CST was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal
recommendation to Mr B was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). But additional regulations
apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These are set out in COBS 19.1.6G in 
which the regulator, the FCA, states that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CST should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
CST carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see that, despite what CST has said 
about the BSPS2 not being guaranteed to go ahead at this time, its analysis was based on 
the benefits that would be available to Mr B through the BSPS2. At the time of the advice 
Mr B wouldve received his Time to Choose information and because in my view all of the 
available information from the scheme trustees was positive that it would go ahead, I think 
including the BSPS2 benefits in the analysis was a fair and reasonable approach for CST to 
take and would allow Mr B the necessary information to help him make an informed 
decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr B was 44 at the time of the advice and it was recorded in the advice paperwork that
he wanted to retire between 57 and 60. The critical yields required to match Mr Bs benefits 
at age 57 were set out in the TVAS report of 29 October 2017  these were 7.96% if Mr B 
took a full pension and 6.68% if he took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. The 
critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 57 was quoted as 7.05% 
per year if Mr B took a full pension and 6.59% on a reduced pension basis.CST also produced figures based on the BSPS2s normal retirement age of 65  these were 
6.23% and 5.4% respectively. The critical yields to match the benefits available through the 
PPF at age 65 were 5.19% and 4.85% respectively.
Id add here that, given Mr B indicated he wanted to retire between 57 and 60, I think it might 
have been helpful to Mr B if CST had also produced critical yield figures based on the 
benefits available to him at age 60, so he was able to make a fully informed decision.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and
was 4% per year for 12 years to retirement (age 57). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate,
Mr Bs cautious approach to investment risk given the ultimate recommendation and also 
the term to retirement. In my view, there would be little point in Mr B giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme. But here, the lowest critical yield was 6.59% based on Mr B 
taking a cash lump sum and a reduced pension through the PPF at age 57. The rate was 
marginally higher - 6.68% - assuming Mr B took the same benefits at 57 through the BSPS2. 
These were more than 2.5% higher than the discount rate and still some way above the 
regulators middle projection rate. So I think it was clear that Mr B was likely to receive 
benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by either the BSPS or the PPF at 
retirement (57) as a result of transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. In my 
view, to have come close to consistently achieving the level of growth needed, it would have 
required Mr B to take a higher level of investment risk than I think he indicated he was 
prepared to take.
I can see CST has said there was no regulatory rule or guidance requirement to refer to the 
discount rate. And I accept businesses didnt have to refer to it. But while I havent based my 
findings solely on this, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses, like CST, were free to use the discount rate as this was 
considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, Ive considered 
this in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required 
to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Bs attitude to risk, which leads me to be 
believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
I can also see that CST has questioned the weight the investigator placed on the critical 
yield figures, It considers it is a blunt tool because it assumes Mr B would purchase an 
annuity on the same basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme and he wasnt 
contemplating that. But I dont think the importance of the critical yield figure should be 
downplayed here. I still consider it gives a good indication of the value of benefits Mr B was 
considering giving up. Its also the case that the regulator required CST to provide it and so 
deems it a necessary and important part of the decision-making process. 
So CST needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I think it is a relevant 
consideration here. And crucially I think it is still relevant, particularly given Mr Bs 
circumstances and the fact that I dont think he could realistically say with any certainty 
whether he would want to take a fixed regular income at retirement or not. Mr B wasnt 
expecting to retire for at least another 12 years or more  so its entirely possible that he would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement, which he could achieve by 
taking benefits from the DB scheme.
CST has provided a number of cashflow model examples, which it also provided in its final 
response to Mr Bs complaint and referred to the drawdown analysis in the TVAS to support 
its view that Mr B wouldve been able to meet his needs despite the high critical yields. And 
Ive considered these.
Firstly, I can see that in two of the scenarios (and the TVAS drawdown analysis) these are 
based on Mr B taking the same level of benefits as he was entitled to under the DB scheme 
at age 57  an annual income of around £10,000 and a cash lump sum of around £66,000. 
But Im mindful, as I said above, that I consider there would be little point in Mr B transferring 
just to have the same level of benefits outside the scheme (at risk) as he could have had by 
remaining in it. By remaining in the scheme Mr Bs benefits were guaranteed and they were 
payable for life. 
Secondly CSTs analysis here assumes both a consistent level of return and annual inflation 
rate. For example it has demonstrated that with an annual return (net) of 4.68% Mr Bs 
pension (assuming he took the same level of benefits as the DB scheme) would last until 
age 777, while at a lower rate of 1.38% (net) his pension wouldnt run out until he was 90. I 
can see CST has likened this lower return to a bank account rate of return. Despite the fact 
that I dont think it is appropriate to compare the lower rate of return with a bank account  
Mr Bs pension was not in a bank account where the capital was guaranteed, it was invested 
in risk- based assets where the capital value could fall and fall below the original invested 
sum  the modelling does not include any stress testing of the scenarios. I think it wouldve 
been good practice and helpful to show differing scenarios - for example including periods 
where growth was lower than expected and/or inflation was higher, to show the impact this 
would have on the ability of Mr Bs pension fund to sustain the level of withdrawals during his 
life expectancy. I think the same wouldve been useful for the other modelling scenarios CST 
produced, including the one where Mr B took his tax-free lump sum at age 57 and then 
deferred taking his income at a higher level of £33,000, which shows it was sustainable until 
age 60 assuming a 4.68% consistent net annual return. 
Without some kind of stress testing of the model, Im not persuaded the analysis 
demonstrates that Mr B wouldve been able to meet his needs despite the high critical yields.
Notwithstanding the above, Im not persuaded that Mr B had the attitude to risk and the 
capacity for loss to accommodate drawdown. I say this because, while CST has argued that 
Mr Bs lowest recorded priority was for a guaranteed income for life, Im not persuaded this 
fairly or accurately reflects Mr Bs attitude when looking in detail at Mr Bs answers to what I 
consider were key questions CST posed at the time in assessing Mr Bs attitude towards 
investing. I also think there were inconsistencies in the views Mr B expressed in his answers 
 some of which I think were likely driven by the nature and wording of the questions. But, 
looking at the key questions, in the risk profile questionnaire Mr B indicated that he had no 
experience of investing and that he was not very comfortable with investing. He also agreed 
that he did not feel comfortable with financial uncertainty and disagreed that he was 
prepared to accept potential losses to pursue long-term investment growth.
 
In addition to this, in the retirement options questionnaire Mr B was asked to tick a box that 
best reflected his income requirements. I can see the first box has been ticked This pension 
fund will be an important source of income. I need to be sure that the income it provides is 
secure and will be guaranteed. It appears from what I can make out that the tick has been 
crossed through in favour of another answer   For the foreseeable future the income that I receive from this plan is not important to me. I want the pension fund to grow for my future 
benefit.
But despite this apparently being crossed through, Mr B then goes on to tick an answer in 
another section of this document   This pension fund is an important source of income to 
me. I would not be happy if external factors caused it to fluctuate and would like to consider 
the option of a built-in guarantee.
Furthermore, the answer Mr B gave in another document Mr B completed  a Pension 
Transfer Questionnaire  would also in my view support Mr Bs preference for a guaranteed 
income. He said here that his pension benefits should be protected as far as reasonably 
possible. 
In my view, individually and collectively these were important answers CST ought to have 
taken careful note of. In my view, when viewed alongside Mr Bs capacity for loss, which I 
consider was low given his DB pension was the primary source of his private retirement 
income at the time and he didnt have other cash or investment-based assets to support his 
retirement (his DC scheme at this stage had not long begun) I dont think Mr B had the true 
attitude to risk or capacity to accommodate drawdown in any event. 
Overall, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Bs benefits were reduced, he was 
unlikely to be able to improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. By 
transferring his pension, it was in my view likely Mr B would be financially worse off in 
retirement. So based on this alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. But I 
accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as CST 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the key reasons CST recommended the transfer was to provide Mr B with flexibility  
the ability to decide how and when he would withdraw his pension.
But Im not persuaded that Mr B knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in 
retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits at 
this stage to achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr B was 44 at the time of the advice. And while I accept its possible he might have given 
some thought to his retirement, given it was still at least 12 years away, I dont think he had 
anything that could reasonably be described as a concrete retirement plan. And I think the 
evidence supports this. The suitability report said Mr B wanted to retire between 57 and 60 
depending on the workplace conditions and your health at the time. I can also see in the 
fact-find document there are handwritten notes  presumably from the adviser  which also 
reflect what the suitability report said and in addition they say: ? days, ? reduced hours. 
Options open. Closer to home better. In my view this indicates Mr B did not really know at 
this stage what his retirement would look like or crucially precisely when  it appears it would 
be dictated by circumstances at, or nearer the time.
Nevertheless, I accept Mr B liked the idea of retiring early and before the schemes normal 
retirement age. But Mr B already had this option available to him  he didnt have to transfer 
out to achieve this. I also accept that Mr B couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. 
Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension, Mr B had 
to take those benefits at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr B had a strong need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking his income or that he needed variable income 
throughout retirement. 
I can see in the suitability report it said Mr B wanted the option of accessing his tax-free lump 
sum whilst continuing to work. But having the option does not automatically translate to a 
need. As I said above, it doesnt appear Mr B had a firm retirement plan. It strikes me the 
reference to this was simply a feature or consequence of transferring to a personal 
arrangement rather than a real objective of Mr Bs. Mr B didnt for example have debts he 
needed to repay prior to his normal retirement age, which wouldve given him a need to 
access his lump sum benefits and not income  Mr Bs mortgage was due to be repaid prior 
to his target retirement age. His other debt would also have long been repaid. I can see from 
the advice paperwork and CSTs final response letter to Mr Bs complaint that Mr B wanted 
access to a lump sum to help his daughter on the property ladder, go on holiday and buy a 
car. But again, none of these things demonstrate a strong need to access a lump sum and 
defer taking an income. As I said above, I dont think Mr B knew with any certainty this is 
what he wanted to do - it was still some 12 years or more in the future. Im mindful too that 
Mr Bs daughter was only seven years old at the time of the advice, so I dont think he was in 
a position at this time to say with any certainty what his daughters needs might be in 12- or 
13-years time let alone know that shed want to purchase a property at this time.
I can see CST has talked much about Mr Bs need or desire for a phased retirement 
between 57 and 60  reducing his hours / working part-time and supplementing his income 
from his pension. And it has produced modelling and analysis to demonstrate, in its view, 
how Mr B could only achieve this with his personal pension arrangement  it wasnt 
something he could do if he remained in the DB scheme. But I cannot see that this is what 
the advice was based on at the time. Ive indicated above what the advice paperwork 
recorded at the time, including the handwritten notes with question marks against them, 
which I think demonstrates Mr B did not know at the time what his retirement looked like or 
precisely when. Ive not seen clear evidence of a discussion about a phased retirement 
approach. Its possible a phased retirement approach is something Mr B has subsequently 
discussed with CST  but because Im not persuaded this is what the advice was predicated 
on at the time, I dont think it is necessary to engage with this point further.
In any event, it seems to me that Mr B already had flexibility, which could be provided by his 
workplace DC pension. As CST documented at the time, Mr B was contributing to his 
workplace pension, which along with his employers contribution amounted to 16% of his 
salary. I can see CST recommended Mr B increase his contribution rate by 4% to achieve a 
total of 20%. But without this increased rate, CSTs own analysis recorded that Mr B could 
expect somewhere in the region of around £140,000 or more based on his increasing salary 
and expected investment growth. 
The nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr B with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. Mr B couldve taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr B 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve likely 
given him the flexibility to retire early, or indeed adopt a phased retirement approach - if 
thats what he ultimately decided.
So in any event, Mr B didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. But if Mr B did in 
fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve 
been explored closer to his intended retirement age. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr B 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed it was required. I think CST couldve explained this more clearly to Mr B.
Turning to Mr Bs income need  it was recorded that given Mr Bs expenditure would reduce 
in retirement, his income need was £15,000 (as at 2017 prices), so around £20,000 at age 
57. And based on this, Ive seen nothing to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the 
PPF (if the new scheme didnt go ahead) wouldnt have provided Mr B with a solid 
guaranteed income foundation upon which his other provision could supplement, to likely 
meet his overall income need.
For example, CSTs analysis showed that at age 57, the BSPS2 would provide Mr B with a 
full pension of just under £13,700 a year, or if Mr B did want access to a lump sum (his 
entitlement was around £66,000) his reduced income was around £10,000 a year. Although 
this alone wouldnt meet Mr Bs income need, I think he couldve used his workplace DC 
pension to supplement things  at least until his state pension became payable at age 67, 
which was forecast to be around £14,000 a year. Mr Bs DC pension wouldve likely had a 
not insignificant amount at this stage, as CST noted, that he could draw on flexibly as and 
when needed, to top up his income or take a lump sum. And if Mr B delayed his retirement to 
age 60 or beyond, his DB scheme income would be greater still (as would his tax-free cash 
entitlement) meaning that the gap he needed to fill using his DC scheme wouldve been 
smaller. Either way, I still think Mr B had a better chance of achieving his future retirement 
and income needs by remaining in the DB scheme and opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits 
under which were guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a 
personal pension to achieve things.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr B wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr B would receive was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower such that it wouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr Bs retirement plans werent 
formulated and he wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on flexibly until his state pension 
became payable.
So overall, I think Mr B couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF and I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his 
pension at this time just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
CST also recommended the transfer to provide better death benefits  to enable Mr B to 
pass on what remained of his pension fund to his family in the event of his death. CST said 
that leaving the benefits within the BSPS would mean Mr Bs nominated beneficiaries would 
potentially receive nothing from the scheme.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement - not as a legacy provision tool. 
And I dont think CST really explored to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a lower 
retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits. Much of what CST has said in its 
defence of the advice, indicates that Mr B could either prioritise his income or prioritise death 
benefits for his family  he couldnt do both.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr B predeceased her. I dont think CST made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr B. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, 
CST should not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Anyway, Mr B already had lump sum death benefits available. CST knew that Mr B had 
death-in-service benefit of four times his salary through his employer if he died before 
retirement. And it also knew that Mr B was paying into his DC scheme and he wouldve been 
able to nominate his spouse as beneficiary of this if he hadnt already done so.
But if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife / daughter over and above that 
which was already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns, I think CST 
ought to have explored and ultimately recommended, additional life cover. I can see CST 
has argued that the cost of providing the alternative option of a whole of life policy for the 
equivalent amount of benefit it said Mr Bs pension pot could be worth, would be in the 
region of £900 a month (I believe based on a sum assured in excess of £600,000.)
But I dont think this is a balanced way of presenting this option. Ultimately, Mr B wanted to 
leave whatever remained of his pension to his spouse/daughter. And as CSTs own analysis 
shows, if Mr B chose to prioritise a higher income in retirement, or if he took the same 
benefits as he would be entitled to under the DB scheme and he lived a long life and  
investment returns were poor, the sum remaining could be significantly less than in the more 
optimistic scenario CST refers to. So, I think the starting point ought to have been to ask 
Mr B how much he would ideally like to leave to his family to provide for their needs and this 
couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which in my view was 
likely to be cheaper and affordable to provide given Mr Bs circumstances.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Suitability of investments
CST recommended that Mr B use a DFM to manage his pension funds. And while I have 
some concerns about this and whether in the circumstances it was appropriate for Mr B, as 
Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr B, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr B should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the DFM would not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I accept that Mr B was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS given the circumstances 
at the time. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to 
Mr B. But CST wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. 
The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in 
his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income at a time when I dont think he needed to. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr B didnt 
in my view have any firm retirement plans, so he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed, and the 
potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his 
DB scheme. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension arrangement at this time when he had the opportunity of opting into the 
BSPS2.
I can see that CST says the 2017 CETV may have been the only opportunity to transfer out 
and at a time of near zero interest rates. But that in itself does not in my view clearly 
demonstrate that it was in Mr Bs best interests to transfer out of his DB scheme altogether.
So, I think CST shouldve advised Mr B to opt into the BSPS2.
While Mr B indicated he might want to retire at 57, as Ive already explained this was more 
than 12 years away and Mr Bs plans couldve changed. So, I don't think that it would've 
been in his best interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme 
entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr B wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of 
the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if his needs later demanded it. Mr B was married, 
and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this 
would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr B chose to do so). The 
annual indexation of her pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the 
BSPS2.
As I said earlier on, CST believes it couldnt advise on the BSPS2 because there was no 
certainty it would come into existence  it wasnt an option at the time. I appreciate that the 
BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But as Ive already said, I think 
everything pointed to it going ahead, so this ought to have been the position CST adopted  
I think it is fair and reasonable for it to have done so. In any event, CST based its TVAS 
analysis on the BSPS2 benefits, so it seems its advice did take into account the benefits 
available through the new scheme. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against CSTs 
advice. CST argues this is the case saying Mr B was attracted by the beneficial 
characteristics of the personal pension and the alignment with his objectives. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against CSTs advice. I say this because, while as Ive already 
said Mr B was likely motivated to transfer when he approached CST, on balance, I still think 
he wouldve listened to and followed its advice if things had happened as they should have 
and CST had recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Importantly, Mr B was an 
inexperienced investor, so Im not persuaded he possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or 
confidence to against the advice he was given, particularly in complex pension matters. 
Mr Bs pension accounted for all of his private retirement provision at the time and I think his 
attitude to risk was on the cautious side. 
So, if CST had provided Mr B with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
I appreciate this circumstances surrounding the BSPS at the time  but Im not persuaded 
that Mr Bs concerns about his employer or the scheme were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if CST 
had explained that Mr B could likely meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr B wouldve 
insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if CST had given suitable advice that he not do so 
and that he should opt into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think CST should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, in line 
with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. And for the 
reasons Ive already explained, it is the benefits available to Mr B through the BSPS2 that 
should be used for comparison purposes.
I've thought about Mr B's representative's point regarding the 15% deduction from any 
redress payable, to take into account the tax Mr B would've paid had this been taken as 
income. It believes this is unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been 
deducted from the fund value over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this 
may unfairly reduce the redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact 
compensation in these circumstances. The only way to achieve this would be to put 
Mr B back into the scheme as if the transfer out hadn't happened  but that isnt possible. 
So, overall, I remain of the view that the redress proposed fairly compensates Mr B for the 
impact of the unsuitable advice he received.
For the sake of clarity, I can see that in CSTs submission in defence of its advice, it referred 
to the FCAs DBAAT tool and asked whether the guidance here had been taken into account 
in our determination of the case. While this is a tool for businesses to use and it is not the 
only means by which a business can assess the suitability of DB transfer advice, Im 
satisfied it is based on existing regulatory rules and guidance, which as I said at the outset, I 
have taken into account in deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Finally, I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr B. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
CST  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr B. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr Bs retirement provision is of great importance to him given its significance in his overall 
retirement income provision, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So 
I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
CST must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CST should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no firm plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts CSTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, CST may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman