DRN-3421088
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as H has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr H, a director or H, has brought the complaint on Hs behalf. H is also represented in this
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of H.
What happened
H held a business protection insurance policy with AXA. H claimed on its policy after its
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Welsh Governments response to the 
pandemic.
AXA turned down Hs claim as they said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. They
added that while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the
diseases covered.
Unhappy with AXAs response, H brought its complaint to us. It thought its claim should be
covered under different sections of the policy.
Damage
H said the core business interruption section of the policy covers damage but makes no 
reference to physical damage. Therefore, H said the definition of damage should extend to 
losses flowing from its closure as a result of Covid-19. H referred to the case of MDS Inc. v 
Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020) in support of why its claim should be paid.
Disease
H said the list of diseases set out in this extension of the policy arent an exhaustive list and
theres nothing in the policy to say that new diseases cant be added or are excluded. H said 
the list of diseases are very similar to the Governments list of Notifiable Diseases and 
therefore its reasonable to conclude that Covid-19 should be added. H said that its director 
had been diagnosed with Covid-19 in December 2020 and referred to the Case No. 11 O 
66/20, which was considered in Germany, in support of its claim. 
Sanitary arrangements
H said this clause required it to have closed due to sanitary reasons and didnt require there 
to be a defect in those arrangements. It said it was required to close due to health and 
sanitation issues as it wasnt safe for people in be in close proximity to each other.
Other factors
H said that it had expected to be covered following a statement made by the Government 
towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its policy would 
provide cover in these circumstances. 
H said that Covid-19 wasnt excluded by the policy and that where the policy is ambiguous it
should be read in the favour of the insured.
Initial investigation
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It referred to the judges comments in
Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & AXA Insurance
Designated Activity Company [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield) in support of why its claim
should be covered under the clause regarding sanitary arrangements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
H has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all in this decision 
but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Welsh Governments related actions have had 
an impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Hs claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of Hs policy says:
If any property used by you at your premises for the purpose of the business 
suffers damage during the period of insurance, and as a result your business 
is interrupted or interfered with then we will pay you for loss of profit by paying
The policy defines damage as:
Accidental loss or destruction or damage caused by
1 an insured Cause under the Buildings or Contents section
2 damage to fixed glass or damage to the shop front where shown as covered in 
your schedule.
Therefore, for cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Hs business
interruption would need to be as a result of accidental loss or destruction or damage to 
property caused by an insured cause under the buildings or contents section, or damage to 
fixed glass or the shop front. I dont think this would provide cover for Hs claim, because I 
dont think the business interruption was as a result of damage.
H has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020).
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. Ive considered this,
but Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Hs claim, including
TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v BritishNuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Hs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of
potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Hs premises.
However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt
recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of
SARS-CoV-2 on Hs property. And the presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically
amount to damage. So, Hs claim isnt covered under this section of the policy. 
Disease
This extension covers business interruption or interference due to, the occurrence of any of 
the following specified human infectious or human contagious diseases suffered by any 
person at your premises or within a one mile radius of it. 
The policy goes on to set out a list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19. As Covid-19 
isnt in that list, its not covered by the policy. When reaching this finding Im mindful that 
Covid-19 wasnt something AXA might have known about when the policy was drafted. 
However, there were policies that provided cover for all notifiable diseases. While I accept 
that the list in Hs policy reflects some of the Governments list of notifiable diseases, other 
notifiable diseases also arent included. Hs policy does not say that it covers notifiable 
diseases and instead sets out a specified list of diseases which are covered by the policy.
H has referred to Case No.11 O 66/20 which was considered in Germany. While Ive 
considered this, I think Rockliffe Hall Limited v Travelers Insurance Company Limited: [2021] 
EWHC 412 (Comm) is more relevant. At paragraph 36-37 the judge said:
The appearance of the list itself also suggests that the list of diseases in the 
definition is exhaustive. That is because it begins with the words "Infectious 
Disease means". That reading is supported by authority. Arden LJ held 
in Singapore Airlines Ltd v Buck Consultants Ltd [2011] EWCA Civ 1542; [2012] 2 
Costs LO 132 at [19]:
"Definitions in statutes and deeds can be exhaustive or non-exhaustive. Non-
exhaustive definitions are usually prefaced by the word "include". More often 
however, a definition is intended to be exhaustive and it will then generally begin 
with the word "mean" or "means". It is difficult to read a definition which begins 
with the word "means" as other than exhaustive."
The starting point therefore is that there is good reason to posit that only the 
diseases on the list count as "Infectious Diseases", as defined.
While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new diseases are excluded,
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not
included, including any new diseases which emerge. The policy says that it covers the 
followingdiseases which I think indicates that it is a closed list. I dont think this extension 
can fairly be read to cover any and all diseases and therefore this doesnt cover Hs claim, 
irrespective of whether anyone at the premises, or within one mile, had Covid-19.Sanitary arrangements
The extension also covers business interruption or interference as a result of:
the closing of the whole or part of your premises by order of a competent public 
authority as a result of a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at 
your premises
H says that the use of or before other sanitary arrangements means it should be 
considered separately to defective drains and therefore provide cover because Hs closure 
was due to sanitary arrangements. I think an ordinary reading of the extension would 
suggest that there would need to be a defect in Hs drains or other sanitary arrangements to 
provide cover.
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, the case of
Brushfield as H has specifically referred to it. This case took place in the Irish courts so, as H 
says, this is not binding on English courts. However, I dont think the judges comments in 
Brushfield mean that Hs claim should be paid.
The judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves some element of 
deficiency or fault. I havent seen anything to persuade me that there was any deficiency or 
fault in Hs sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business 
can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Hs premises which led to its 
closure. I also havent been provided with any evidence to persuade me that it was the 
circumstances at Hs premises in particular that led to the governments decision to 
introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I dont think this extension covers Hs 
claim.
Other factors
Although H might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Hs policy provides cover
for its claim.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be considered ambiguous and
I dont think it matters that Covid-19 isnt excluded as there isnt a clause in the policy that
provides cover.
I understand this isnt the outcome H was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay Hs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman