DRN-3219504
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the advice Mike Norris Financial Services Limited (MNFSL) gave to 
transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes to a 
personal pension plan. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mrs N to bring her complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mrs Ns.
What happened
Mrs N was introduced to MNFSL IN 2019 in order to discuss her pension and retirement 
needs. 
MNFSL gathered information about Mrs Ns circumstances and objectives, it carried out an 
assessment of her attitude to risk and it produced at least one pension transfer report. On 
1 October 2019 it sent Mrs N a pension transfer advice letter. That said:
Mrs N Was 55 years old, married, with one adult son.
She was working as was her husband. MNFSL didnt record her salary.
She owned her home and had a small outstanding mortgage, although the figure 
wasnt given.
She had nominal savings.
She hoped to retire at 60.
She was a member of her current employers pension scheme.
Her attitude to risk was balanced.
She had no investment experience.
She was a deferred member of two DB schemes from her former employer who 
shed worked for over a period of around 14 years. The two schemes had a 
combined cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £146,795 and would give her a 
combined yearly income of around £5,257.
The investment required in order to provide equivalent, risk free, benefits to the two 
DB schemes (known as a transfer value comparator or TVC) could cost Mrs N 
almost £277,000.
MNFSL advised Mrs N to transfer her pension benefits from the DB schemes into a named 
personal pension plan. It said the reasons for this recommendation were because:
 
MNFSL deemed the hurdle rate (the amount of growth required to match the DB 
scheme but without a spouses pension or adjustment for inflation) as acceptable, 
based on the assumption that Mrs Ns husband was likely to die before her. 
It would meet her needs to access her pension benefits flexibly.
Her fund would benefit from tax advantaged growth
She could take her benefits from age 55.
She could take 25% of the fund as tax free cash (TFC).
A broad range of investment opportunities offering greater choice and enhanced 
flexibility compared to other schemes.
Greater freedom and flexibility to access her pension benefits including the phasing 
in of benefits in line with her objectives.
Greater entitlement to death benefits which would not be taxed and she could 
nominate the beneficiary.
The invested fund would be in addition to her other pension provision.
She would avoid any future underfunding of the DB scheme.
If required it would allow her financial adviser to provide ongoing investment advice.
MNFSL said it would charge Mrs N £3,000 for its transfer advice and service, with an 
ongoing annual fee of £500 for investment advice should she choose that.
Mrs N went ahead with the transfer which was completed the following month.
Mrs N complained in 2021 to MNFSL about the suitability of the transfer advice because, 
amongst other things, she said:
MNFSL led her to believe she would be better off by transferring out of the DB 
schemes.
The advice was unsuitable, inappropriate and negligent and was not in line with the 
regulators rules to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
Mrs N was an inexperienced investor and didnt understand the differences and 
losses by moving from the DB scheme to a personal pension and MNFSL didnt 
explain this to her. 
MNFSL acknowledged receipt of the complaint but said that it didnt consider it to be valid 
and refused to respond further. 
Mrs N referred her complaint to our service. We asked MNFSL to provide its file but it didnt 
do so. It told us that it had provided everything it had to Mrs N (via her representatives). It 
also said that its former adviser, who had provided the advice to Mrs N, had taken some 
documents with him when he left MNFSLs employment, so MNFSL no longer had access to 
those. Our investigator asked Mrs N to provide what information she had. Having considered 
that he upheld the complaint and required MNFSL to pay compensation. In short our 
investigator said that Mrs N was likely to receive lower pension benefits by transferring out of 
her DB schemes and as such the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable. 
MNFSL disagreed, saying that it had discussed the figures with Mrs N and that the transfer 
allowed her the flexibility to access her pension as she wanted. It said that the transfer also 
provided substantially better death benefits. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.I've noted above that MNFSL didnt provide us with its file directly. And Mrs N wasnt able to 
send us all of the documents I would usually expect to see. So, I've had to arrive at my 
decision based on the limited evidence which is available. And, where necessary, I've done 
so based on the balance of probabilities, that is whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, MNFSL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that it was in Mrs Ns best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mrs N was 55 at the time of the advice and she would have been entitled to draw her full DB 
scheme benefits at 60. MNFSL carried out pension transfer analysis including a TVC which 
showed that it could cost her over £130,000 more to provide the same income as her DB 
schemes through a personal pension. Also, the growth rates required to match Mrs Ns 
benefits at age 60 (known as the critical yield) was 13.92% for her first DB pension if she 
took a full pension and 10.56% if she took TFC and a reduced pension. The critical yields 
required for her second DB pension were 15.08% and 11.93% respectively.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3% a year for 4 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% a year.
MNFSLs transfer advice letter says that Mrs N had a balanced attitude to risk. But it no 
longer has the answers Mrs N gave to its questions by which it arrived at that result. But, for 
the purposes of this decision, and given that I'm upholding the complaint anyway, I've 
accepted that is accurate. So I've taken it into account, along with the composition of assets 
in the discount rate, Mrs Ns balanced attitude to risk and the term to retirement. There 
would be little point in Mrs N giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB 
schemes only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the schemes. But here, 
given the lowest critical yield was 10.56%, I think Mrs N was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value than the DB schemes at retirement, as a result of investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. 
I've noted that when MNFSL gave Mrs N its recommendation, it said that the growth required 
to match the benefits in the existing schemes was achievable. I think this was seriously 
misleading. Its advice was based on the hurdle rate, rather than the critical yields, discount 
rate or TVC. But the hurdle rate doesn't typically allow for fund or adviser charges, nor for 
increases in pension income over time, which is a guaranteed benefit from the DB schemes. Nor does the hurdle rate factor in any spouses benefits. So I don't think this was a fair 
comparison and could have given Mrs N the impression that the growth required from the 
personal pension was likely to be able to match her DB scheme benefits when that wasn't 
the case. 
MNFSL has provided cashflow models for Mrs Ns first and larger DB schemes benefits. I 
havent been provided with any cashflow models for the second DB scheme, although 
MNFSL has referred to some of the figures from such models in its transfer advice letter. 
The figures MNFSL have quoted show that Mrs N would need a total pension pot of around 
£277,000 to allow her to match the benefits from her DB schemes, if she were to take those 
from a personal pension on a drawdown basis. But such a figure was only really achievable 
from a personal pension if her invested funds grew at a high rate (assumed to be 8% a year 
at that time). And given her balanced attitude to investment risk that seems extremely 
unlikely. 
Further, MNFSL has shown that, if Mrs N transferred her benefits, her funds would likely run 
out by the time she was 83, if she didnt take TFC, and 85 if she did. But that was on the 
expectation that her funds grew at the mid-level growth of 5%. But even if I accepted that 
such a growth was achievable, if Mrs N lived longer than expected, or there was a period of 
poor investment performance, there was a real possibility that her funds could run out 
sooner than expected. So overall, I think it ought to have been clear to MNFSL that Mrs N 
was likely to be worse off financially if she transferred out of the DB scheme.
For the reasons given above a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Ns best 
interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, 
as MNFSL has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mrs N required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access her pension earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age. I say this because while MNFSL has recorded that Mrs Ns 
investment objectives included flexible access to her pension funds, it hasn't recorded any 
reason why Mrs N might need access to her funds before the schemes retirement age. 
Neither has it recorded why accessing those funds flexibly would be worth giving up the 
guaranteed benefits that her DB schemes offered her. 
I also cant see evidence that Mrs N had a strong need for variable income throughout her 
retirement or before. At the time Mrs N and her husband were both still working and MNFSL 
hasnt shown any evidence that they had significant debt or were struggling to manage on 
their employment income. So there doesn't appear to have been any pressing need for 
Mrs N to access the funds in her DB schemes early or more flexibly. I can understand that 
the ability to access TFC immediately might have been a desirable prospect for Mrs N, it 
doesn't mean that meeting those desires was in her best interests. Thats because in order 
to have access to those funds before retirement or to do so on a more flexible basis meant 
giving up a guaranteed income at retirement age.
Also, I can't see any detail within MNFSLs transfer advice letter showing how it analysed the 
likely income Mrs N would need at retirement and how she intended to meet that need. So it 
seems that MNFSL gave its advice without a full picture of Mrs Ns likely income needs in 
her retirement and whether it was in her best interest to access her DB pension funds 
flexibly. What I can say for certain is Mrs N had the prospect of a guaranteed return from her 
DB schemes which would increase each year. A return she stood to lose some or all of by 
moving it into a personal pension which had no guarantees of any return whatsoever. Also, 
in going ahead with that transfer the funds would instantly be subject to a £3,000 transfer 
fee. She would also be charged an administration fee of 0.45% each year and a further 
charge of £500 each year for financial advice. Those are charges that would potentially 
continue to reduce the size of Mrs Ns investment but are charges that wouldnt have been 
deducted from her DB scheme benefits had she remained in those schemes. It seems to me 
that these benefits outweigh the possible advantages of having more flexible access to her 
pension funds.
MNFSLs role should have been to advise Mrs N on what was in her best interests, not 
simply to arrange what she said she wanted at that moment in time, without carefully 
examining what her needs, rather than simply her desires, may have been. Its also worth 
noting that Mrs N had only nominal savings and had little or no investment experience. 
And, at most, she had a balanced attitude to risk. So transferring her guaranteed  and 
essentially risk free  benefits from two DB scheme to a personal pension, which had the 
potential for losses, wasnt in her best interests. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs N. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs N might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here for 
MNFSL was to advise Mrs N about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think MNFSL explored to 
what extent Mrs N was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher 
death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB schemes were underplayed. Mrs N 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to her husband if Mrs N died before him. I dont think MNFSL made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mrs N. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
fact I've noted that MNFSL seems to have assumed that Mrs Ns husband would die before 
her and it based its advice around that assumption. I understand that Mrs Ns husband had 
suffered a serious health condition in the past. But its also recorded that at that time he was 
reasonably well. So it had no real basis on which to assume that Mrs Ns husband was more 
likely than not to die significantly earlier than her. But its advice clearly gave the impression 
that the DB schemes death benefits would be of little value, when I don't think that was a fair 
representation of their potential.
Its worth noting that the death benefits available from the personal pension would decrease 
over time. And if Mrs N chose to take TFC then its likely they would decrease by around 
25% overnight. And the funds available for Mrs Ns beneficiaries on her death would have 
continued to reduce as Mrs N drew down sums for her income needs. And that amount 
would likely be further reduced the longer Mrs N lived for. So, depending on her lifespan and 
the funds shed taken from her personal pension, the fund might not have a large  if indeed 
any  sum left at the time of Mrs Ns death. In any event, MNFSL should not have 
encouraged Mrs N to prioritise the potential for higher sums being available at her death 
through a personal pension over her security in retirement. Further, if Mrs N genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her husband or her son, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, I 
think MNFSL shouldve instead explored life insurance. But theres no evidence that it did so. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement income for Mrs N. And I dont think that 
life-insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control of pension investments 
I think MNFSL overstated Mrs Ns desire for control over her pension investments. She was 
not an experienced investor and I cant see that she had the knowledge to be able to 
manage her pension funds on her own. In fact MNFSL has recorded that, in the short term at 
least, because of the current volatility of the market, shed chosen to invest in deposit based 
investments with a view to more bespoke investments once the market stabilised. So, she 
had no need to step into the investment arena immediately. And I dont think that this was a 
genuine objective for Mrs N  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from her DB 
schemes.
Summary
I dont doubt that the access to TFC, flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs N. 
But MNFSL wasnt there to just transact what Mrs N might have thought was attractive. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mrs N needed and recommend what was in her 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice MNFSL gave to Mrs N was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs N was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this  to my mind, the objectives recorded by MNFSL were 
generic and non-specific. MNFSL shouldnt have advised Mrs N to transfer out of the 
scheme in order to have more flexible access and control of her pension funds or for the 
potential for higher death benefits. Those simply weren't worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with her DB scheme for.
So, I think MNFSL shouldve advised Mrs N to remain in her DB schemes.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs N would've gone ahead with the transfers 
anyway, against MNFSL's advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that 
Mrs N wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB schemes, against MNFSLs advice. I 
say this because Mrs N was an inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and 
the DB pensions were valuable assets in Mrs Ns retirement provision. So, if MNFSL had 
provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB schemes, explaining why it 
wasnt in her best interests, I think she would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think MNFSL should compensate Mrs N for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for MNFSL to put Mrs N, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for MNFSLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs N would 
have most likely remained in her DB schemes if MNFSL had given suitable advice.MNFSL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs N has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her DB schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ns acceptance of the decision.
MNFSL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Ns contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ns 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ns pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs N within 90 days of the date MNFSL receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes MNFSL to pay Mrs N.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £350,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £350,000, I may recommend that MNFSL 
pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mike Norris Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mrs N the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £350,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £350,000, I would additionally require 
Mike Norris Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs N any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £350,000, I would only require 
Mike Norris Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs N any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £350,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £350,000, I also recommend that 
Mike Norris Financial Services Limited pays Mrs N the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs N.
If Mrs N accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on MNFSL.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs N can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs N may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman