DRN-2984505
The complaint
Mr D complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited should have defaulted his 
account.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D has explained that between 2014 and 2018 he was in a debt management plan and 
there was an arrangement to pay in place with Shop Direct. Mr D thinks that Shop Direct 
should have defaulted his account as other creditors did in 2014. He says their insistence on 
recording an arrangement to pay has meant hes been left in a worse position.
When consumers enter into an arrangement to pay then a default wont usually be registered 
unless the terms of the arrangement are broken. Mr D has explained that he didnt break the 
terms of the arrangement. It was to his credit that he paid what he arranged when it was 
due, and that the debt was cleared in 2018. 
In some circumstances, where repayments are simply token payments it may be appropriate 
for a business to default the account rather than continue, almost indefinitely, with the token 
payments. I dont think that can fairly be said to be the case here as Mr Ds debt was paid off 
within a reasonable time period. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Shop Direct not to 
default the account.
In those circumstances I would expect Mr Ds credit file to be marked as under an 
arrangement to pay but I dont think thats been the case.
Mr D has provided copies of his credit file that show there were nine missed payments 
recorded from the point his debt management plan was approved to the point the debt was 
settled in 2018. The rest of the months are recorded as no data.
Putting things right
Shop Direct should therefore amend Mr Ds credit file and they should report the account as 
in an arrangement to pay between 1 November 2014, when the debt management plan 
started, and 28 April 2018 when the account was settled.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited to amend Mr Ds credit file to show his account was in an arrangement to 
pay between 1 November 2014 and 28 April 2018 when the account was settled. They 
should remove any late payment markers.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman