DRN-4407036
The complaint
Ms B and Mr S have complained about the early repayment charge (ERC) they incurred 
when they repaid their buy to let (BTL) mortgage with Santander UK Plc. They said the 
amount charged is unfair as they only had seven months left of the preferential interest rate.
What happened
Ms B and Mr S took out this BTL mortgage in 2022 through an independent mortgage 
broker. The mortgage offer dated 22 December 2021 indicated they were borrowing around 
£222,000 over a 20-year term on an interest only basis. The rate was fixed at 1.10% until 
2 February 2024, with an ERC being due if the mortgage was repaid before that date.
In May 2023 Ms B and Mr S complained to Santander about the ERC. They said given the 
huge rise in interest rates theyd be at a financial loss after the next renewal which was due 
in February 2024. As a result theyd decided to sell the property and, upon obtaining a 
redemption statement, were shocked to see an ERC of around £6,660. They said they 
hadnt realised it was a fixed charge across the entire preferential rate period, as their 
previous mortgage with a different lender had an ERC that decreased each day.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint and so Ms B and Mr S referred the matter to us.
In the meantime Ms B and Mr S made a lump sum payment of around £22,200 at the end of 
May 2023, and they then redeemed the remaining mortgage of around £199,800 when they 
sold the property for £565,000 in July 2023 incurring an ERC of around £6,000.
One of our Investigators looked at the complaint. He said:
the mortgage had been introduced by a broker and they were responsible for ensuring 
the mortgage was suitable and for explaining the features of it, including the ERC,
the mortgage offer clearly explained the ERC would be 3% of the amount repaid on or 
before 2 February 2024, and showed the ERC would be the same irrespective of 
whether the mortgage was repaid in January 2022 or January 2023,
a flat percentage (rather than one that decreases over time) isnt an unusual or 
uncommon way for an ERC to be calculated,
the ERC isnt just to cover any lost interest on that individual mortgage, there are other 
costs and factors involved, and
while he understands the reason for paying the mortgage off, it was still a choice Ms B 
and Mr S made at that time, rather than waiting until the end of the ERC period and the 
decision wasnt due to anything Santander had done wrong.
Ms B and Mr S didnt agree. They said:
They had contacted the mortgage broker specifically about this mortgage as theyd 
found the details on the internet, so it wasn't "recommended" by the broker. The details 
on Santanders website do not mention the ERC in the initial search results despite the 
ERC being significantly more than the overall cost of the mortgage over the two years.
They didn't have much of a choice. Interest rates were rising rapidly and increased 
several more times since they contacted Santander. The sales market is terrible and 
typically declines further over the winter. It is highly unlikely they could have sold in 
January so in practice there was no choice unless they wanted to take a huge gamble.
They had offered Santander various alternatives including depositing the money with it 
or transferring the loan to their main property. The alternatives they offered were 
reasonable options which would have allowed them to complete the loan period.
They wanted evidence in the form of the calculation to show Santander wasnt making 
any money itself from this ERC.
A simple online search reveals similar complaints about ERCs with regards to 
Santander so it's clear that something is wrong here and the consumer is not being 
protected. The ERC should be clearly displayed on the Santander website alongside the 
search results. This should apply to all banks and organisations that advertise 
mortgages. It would clearly have changed their decision to take out such a mortgage.
Selling products where the key features are not fully advertised and then holding 
advantage over the consumer by some term in the contract is unethical. We have seen 
exactly the same previously with the PPI scandal. Otherwise you could say that PPI was 
never a scandal because the details were always present in the contract. While the 
ombudsman continues to allow these sorts of practices, consumers will continue to be 
stung by them.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. For that reason, I wont be answering all 
Ms B and Mr S points nor will I be ordering Santander to do so.
Ms B and Mr S have talked about products being sold where key features are not fully 
advertised, and that the ERC wasnt clear on Santanders website. But Ms B and Mr S didnt 
apply through Santanders website so none of that is relevant to this complaint. Whilst Ms B 
and Mr S may have been attracted to the product based on what they saw, and that may not 
have made it clear how the ERC would work (and Im not saying that is the case, as it isnt 
something I need to decide here) the fact they then went to an independent mortgage broker 
renders all that moot, as the responsibility then fell on the broker to ensure the mortgage 
was suitable and that Ms B and Mr S understood it.
Had an application been made through Santanders website then further, more detailed, 
information would have been shown on the subsequent screens but as they didnt apply that 
way then I cant consider what the online process would and wouldnt have shown.
Whilst Ms B and Mr S have said they chose the mortgage themselves and contacted the 
mortgage broker specifically about it, that doesnt alter the fact the application was made on 
the basis the mortgage broker gave independent mortgage advice to Ms B and Mr S about 
the suitability of this mortgage to their individual needs. The broker was also responsible for 
ensuring Ms B and Mr S understood the mortgage terms, including that a flat percentage 
ERC would be due irrespective of when the mortgage was redeemed in the preferential 
interest rate period. If Ms B and Mr S feel the mortgage was unsuitable for them, or it wasnt fully explained, then that would be a complaint theyd need to make to their mortgage broker 
directly. It isnt the responsibility of Santander.
Ms B and Mr S have said if the information about the ERC had been shown then it would 
clearly have changed their decision to take out such a mortgage. But it was clearly shown, in 
the mortgage offer (which is the legal contract they entered into). It would also have been 
clearly shown in the illustration their mortgage broker should have issued to them as part of 
the application process.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Ms B and Mr S particular situation. When I do that, Im 
satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have 
been readily understandable to Ms B and Mr S; certainly, the information about the ERC was 
set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Ms B and Mr S 
knew  or at least should have known  how much theyd have to pay if they repaid the 
mortgage before 2 February 2024. 
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. The relevant rules for residential 
mortgages are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB). As this was a BTL mortgage it wasnt subject to 
those rules and guidance, however they are a good indication of what is good industry 
practice for ERCs so I will make reference to those rules and guidance here.
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. Santander is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to 
it of Ms B and Mr S ending their own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Santander is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Santander doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way. 
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early. 
Santander has provided us with evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this 
group of mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Santander has provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and 
so I wont be disclosing it to Ms B and Mr S. 
The information from Santander shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. It shows 
that the ERC reflects its costs of setting up and servicing the mortgage, the cost of the 
capital it has to set aside, the cost of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial instruments 
that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future losses. Ive 
looked carefully at what Santander has said and I consider it is a fair way to calculate the 
ERC.
I appreciate that Ms B and Mr S were getting near to the end of the tie-in period (redeeming 
the mortgage around seven months before it was due to end) and that the amount of the 
ERC appears out of proportion to the number of payments that were remaining under the 
fixed rate, or even the total interest due over the preferential rate period. But Im afraid that 
isnt a factor in how the ERC is calculated, nor is the actual cost to Santander of this 
individual mortgage being repaid at the exact time it was. 
MCOB only requires Santander to make a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of the 
mortgage being repaid early across a range of similar mortgages. I consider that is what it 
has done. And based on the information presented to me I consider it was reasonable for it 
to charge the ERC it did.
Ms B and Mr S put some offers to Santander, such as transferring the mortgage to another 
property they owned or depositing the money with them, and I understand why they feel 
Santander should have considered those. But this was a mortgage secured on this rental 
property. Once the property was sold there was nothing to secure the debt on, so the 
mortgage had to be repaid; that is the mortgage contract. 
It wasnt an option for Ms B and Mr S to put the sum on deposit with Santander until the end 
of the term as that isnt how mortgages work. If the property is sold the mortgage must be 
repaid at the same time. It also isnt as simple as just transferring the mortgage to a different 
property; a full application would need to be done with a valuation being undertaken, full 
underwriting and a solicitor instructed to complete the legal work. This is called porting. But 
in any event Santander doesnt allow porting to a property that is already owned by the 
customer, only to a new property being purchased; that is its lending criteria and not at all an 
unusual stance for a lender to take. 
Ive sympathy for the position Ms B and Mr S found themselves in, but their situation wasnt 
as unusual as they might think. Many customers have to sell their properties (albeit for other 
equally valid reasons) and incur an ERC when doing so. It would be highly unfair for 
Santander to treat Ms B and Mr S any differently from how it would treat any other customer 
that sold their property whilst in an ERC tie-in period.
There was no reason for Santander to reduce  or waive  the ERC because it hadnt done 
anything wrong. I can only uphold a complaint and order compensation if a business has 
done something wrong. As Im satisfied Santander did nothing wrong then there are no 
grounds for me to order it to refund the ERC, either in full or in part.
Ms B and Mr S have said that Santander could now re-lend their mortgage amount out at a 
higher rate, so they think Santander wouldnt make a loss. But Santander couldnt have 
known, in 2022, that Ms B and Mr S would choose to end their mortgage early, when they 
would choose to do so, and that interest rates would be at the level they are now at the point 
Ms B and Mr S chose to end the mortgage. Equally, things could have gone a different way, with Ms B and Mr S choosing to end their mortgage at a point preferential interest rates were 
lower than when they took out their mortgage, and so any new mortgage lending Santander 
granted would be at a lower rate than Ms B and Mr S were paying. In that instance 
Santander wouldnt make Ms B and Mr S pay more to cover any additional potential losses, 
and equally Santander isnt expected to refund any difference if it goes the other way.
As I said above, in some instances the ERC will be too much and in others it will be too 
little. That is allowed under the rules as long as, at the point it was set, the ERC was a 
reasonable pre-estimate of the potential loss the lender would incur upon early repayment in 
line with the regulatory guidance in MCOB. Here Im satisfied it was.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied: 
Santander was entitled to charge Ms B and Mr S the ERC set out in their mortgage 
contract when they repaid their mortgage early. 
There was no requirement for Santander to only charge an amount worked out based 
on Ms B and Mr Ss individual loan and date of redemption, instead it was allowed to 
charge an amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group 
of mortgages of similar type. 
Santander didnt have to treat Ms B and Mr S any differently to any of its other 
customers that redeem their mortgage whilst there is an ERC in force.
Santander didnt have to offer a bespoke resolution to Ms B and Mr S, nor did it have to 
waive the ERC either in full or in part.
For all the reasons given I dont think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
matter.
Ms B and Mr S have raised some other concerns, such as that they were charged a 
remortgage bonus of £150 and an account fee of £225. As those didnt form part of the 
original complaint to Santander I cant consider them here. Our rules state that a business 
must be given the opportunity to investigate and respond to any issues first, so Ms B and 
Mr S should pass this to Santander as a new complaint if they want it looked into. They may 
then be able to bring that as a new complaint to this service if they remain unhappy with the 
outcome (subject to our usual rules).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms B and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman