DRN-2863639
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Core Cover Ltd mis-sold their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought their private medical insurance policy from Bright Cover  who at the 
time of sale was an appointed representative of Core Cover. That means Core Cover is 
responsible for the sale of the policy.
Mr and Mrs P were insured under a company private medical insurance policy. Mr P was 
retiring, so Mr and Mrs P were looking for options they had to continue having a private 
medical insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs P took out a new policy through Core Cover. It was with the same insurer, but 
the policy was cheaper than the previous policy, and it was a new moratorium policy.
Mr and Mrs P arent happy Core Cover sold them a new moratorium policy, rather than a 
policy with continued underwriting terms from Mr and Mrs Ps previous policy. The previous 
policy was a moratorium one as well, but the moratorium start date for Mr P was in 
December 2010, and for Mrs P it was in December 2011. And the new moratorium policy 
meant the start date was now in December 2018.
Mr and Mrs P are also unhappy that Core Cover gave the insurer incorrect information about 
them. Mr and Mrs P think this means their policy wouldve been void if theyd needed to 
make a claim.
Mr and Mrs P say that had they been fully aware of the above, they wouldnt have bought 
the policy. They want Core Cover to refund the premiums they paid for the policy.
Core Cover accepted it gave the insurer incorrect information. But it said the insurer has said 
it wouldnt have invalidated the policy because of this, but it wouldve asked for the shortfall 
in premiums in the event of a claim being made. And Core Cover said it wouldve paid this 
shortfall on behalf of Mr and Mrs P. Core Cover also offered Mr and Mrs P £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
But Core Cover didnt think it did anything wrong when it sold the new moratorium policy. It 
said the terms were clearly explained during the sale call, and Mr and Mrs P agreed to go 
ahead with the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Core Cover had done anything 
wrong in selling the policy, and the compensation it had offered was a fair and reasonable 
resolution to the mistakes Core Cover had acknowledged.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators findings. In short, they maintain that they 
paid for a policy that wouldnt have paid out any claims due to the terms and incorrect 
information given by Core Cover. Theyre also unhappy that due to the new moratorium start 
date, Mr and Mrs P were now not covered for health conditions that they were covered for 
previously.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Core Cover sold the policy on an advised basis  this is explained during the sale call. That 
means Core Cover needed to make sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs P.
Ive listened to the phone calls between Mr P and Core Cover. Core Cover said several 
times that this policy provided the exact same cover as the policy Mr and Mrs P currently 
held, but it was a lot cheaper. But the new policy didnt provide the exact same cover  it 
was excluding conditions that were covered under Mr and Mrs Ps existing policy.
So, I dont think Core Cover did everything right during that call when it said the new policy 
provided the exact same cover. That said, before Mr and Mrs P bought the policy, Core 
Cover did explain the underwriting terms of the policy they were taking out, and what it 
meant. Mr P also asked Core Cover some questions to clarify what they would, and 
wouldnt, be covered for. Based on that call, Mr P understood that they wouldnt be covered 
for everything they were covered for under the existing policy. And he still chose to go ahead 
and buy the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P say that Core Cover shouldve offered them another policy with the same 
underwriting terms. Core Cover has explained that there was no option for Mr and Mrs P to 
switch to a personal policy with the same terms  and even if there was, this policy wouldve 
cost more than they were already paying.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Core Cover mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs P. 
While I have concerns about Core Cover telling Mr and Mrs P that the cover they were 
buying was exactly the same as they already had, I cant ignore the fact that it did clearly 
explain the underwriting terms Mr and Mrs P were agreeing to before they bought the policy.
Mr and Mrs P dont think the insurer wouldve paid out on any significant claims due to the 
incorrect information given. Had this happened, its likely we wouldve upheld the complaint 
as Core Cover has admitted it made a mistake. But as Mr and Mrs P didnt make any claims 
on the policy, there hasnt been any impact on claims due to the incorrect information. And I 
understand Mr and Mrs P have since cancelled the cover, so it also wont be an issue in the 
future. 
Core Cover has offered to pay Mr and Mrs P £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused due to the incorrect information it gave the insurer. Having considered everything, I 
think this is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Core Cover Ltds offer to pay Mr and Mrs P £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable. If it hasnt already done so, I direct Core Cover Ltd to 
pay this amount to Mr and Mrs P.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman