DRN-1620125
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made a payment in Cayman Island Dollars 
(KYD) instead of Pound Sterling (GBP) that resulted in a currency loss of over £35,000. 
What happened
Mrs W was lent money by her son who resides in the Cayman Islands for a house purchase 
that fell through. She says she asked Barclays to send the money back to her son and an 
attempt was made on 24 September 2019. That attempt was unsuccessful and on 10 
October 2019 Mrs W attended a Barclays branch with her son's account information. She 
says she relied on Barclays to process the payment correctly and says her son had provided 
details of his account and for the transfer to be made in GBP. Mrs W says the transfer was 
made in KYD which meant it was then transferred back into GBP that resulted in a currency 
loss of over £35,000. She questions why Barclays would have transferred the money in that 
way and that it ought to have been obvious that would result in a currency loss.
Barclays says Mrs W attended its branch and it asked her which currency she wished the 
transaction to be made in, and she said in KYD. It says it asked Mrs W several times if that 
information was correct and says she signed the authority for the transaction. Barclays says 
Mrs W then called it about the transaction and said it was her mistake and that she had tried 
to send the money in KYD. It also says it asked Mrs W if she wished to check the transaction 
details with her son before proceeding, but she declined that offer. Barclays says it tried to 
recall the payment, but it was too late and doesn't accept making a mistake.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mrs W had given signed instructions to Barclays and it was her responsibility to 
check those details. The investigator didn't think the e-mail Mrs W brought to the 
appointment on 10 October 2019 had details of the intended currency and that Mrs W had 
accepted she made a mistake when she called Barclays.
Mrs W doesn't accept that view and in summary says the first attempted transfer in 
September was in GBP and that the e-mail from her son did contain reference to his account 
being in GBP. She says she ought not to have been asked about the currency in those 
circumstances and says the cost of the transaction was not disclosed. Mrs W says there is 
no rational explanation for sending money in this way and says her mistake was caused by 
Barclays misleading her. She would like Barclays to pay for the currency loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mrs W will be  
disappointed by my decision.
I don't think it matters what happened on 24 September 2019 as that transaction didn't take place. So I have concentrated on the events of 10 October 2019 and I have looked at the e-
mail Mrs W brought with her to that appointment. I accept the e-mail from Mrs W's son had 
details of his account in the Cayman Islands and that it was a GBP account. So I accept that 
Mrs W's son wished her to make the transfer in GBP and not KYD But I think, as this was a 
transfer to an account abroad, Barclays systems needed a currency inputted and its staff 
correctly asked Mrs W to confirm which currency she wished to use.
I'm satisfied that Mrs W instructed Barclays to proceed in KYD and that she told Barclays 
that on more than one occasion. I'm also satisfied that Mrs W gave Barclays signed 
instructions in which it was clear the currency was KYD and not GBP. So I don't think 
Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by following Mrs W instructions and could not 
have reasonably realised she had made a mistake. I also accept that Barclays suggested 
fairly that Mrs W check the position with her son, but that she said she didn't wish to do so.
I'm also satisfied that when Mrs W called Barclays about the transaction she accepted on a 
number of occasions that she had made a mistake, and that she had tried to send the 
money in KYD. So I think overall that Mrs W intended to make the transaction in KYD and 
believed at the time that was the correct currency to make the transaction in.
I appreciate Mrs W says Barclays ought to have followed her son's instructions and should 
not have raised the issue of a different currency. But I'm satisfied that this was Mrs W's 
account and Barclays were obliged to follow her instructions. I don't think Barclays acted 
unfairly by raising the currency issue as the transfer was to an account held abroad. And I 
don't think by raising it that led to Mrs W making the mistake she clearly accepts making. If 
Mrs W was in any doubt about the currency she could have checked the position and I think 
was given opportunity to do so.
I can see that Mrs W questions the cost of the transaction and the method by which Barclays 
made the transfer. I don't think those are matters Mrs W raised in her complaint or that 
Barclays has looked into those areas, and so those are not matters I can fairly comment on. 
Mrs W will need to make a new complaint about those matters if she wishes.
Overall I'm satisfied that Barclays followed Mrs W's instructions and gave her opportunities 
to check if her instructions were correct. I don't think Barclays provided advice on the 
transaction and it follows that I can't fairly order it to repay the currency loss. I think this 
brings an end to what we can do to help Mrs W informally and can see in any event she and 
her family are considering alternative action against Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
25 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman