DRN-2653057
The complaint
Mrs Ns complained that Lynden Ltd, trading as FindYourPPI (Lynden) charged her a 
success fee when her claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) was upheld, 
even though shed decided not to use their services.
What happened
The deadline to submit a claim for mis-sold PPI was 29 August 2019.  A couple of weeks 
before this, Mrs N signed a letter of authority allowing Lynden to search for any PPI she 
might have had.
In late October, Lynden wrote to Mrs N to tell her PPI had been identified on her credit card 
account.  The letter told her what Lynden needed her to do next.  And it enclosed an 
agreement, which Lynden asked Mrs N to sign and return Unless you dont wish to proceed 
with us.  
Mrs N decided not to sign and return the agreement.  So she did nothing about the letter  or 
about an identical one she received two weeks later.
In March 2020, Mrs Ns credit card provider wrote to her upholding her complaint that shed 
been mis-sold PPI and telling her shed receive a refund of £5,098.65.  Lynden wrote to   
Mrs N in early April 2020, sending her an invoice for a fee of £1,223.68.  When Mrs N didnt 
settle the invoice, Lynden wrote to her again requesting payment.  And very shortly after 
that, they sent her a letter of claim.
Mrs N complained.  She said the letters shed received in October and November had made 
it clear she didnt have to pursue her claim through a claims management company, but 
could deal directly with the credit card provider.  Shed decided to do that  which was why 
she hadnt returned the forms.  And, because shed done that, she said she didnt owe 
Lynden any money.  
Lynden looked at Mrs Ns complaint and rejected it.  They said Mrs N had agreed to their 
terms and conditions in August 2019.  They said their sign up process included a box that 
had to be ticked which said:
I have read and accept the terms and conditions and privacy policy, including fee of 20% 
plus VAT for a successful claim.
Only after that box was ticked was the authority Mrs N had signed generated.  And they 
explained that between June 2019 and the deadline, financial institutions would 
automatically convert any searches which had found PPI to a claim so that people could 
claim before the deadline.  They said theyd made this clear on their documentation Mrs N 
had seen.
Mrs N didnt accept Lyndens explanation and brought her complaint to us.  Our investigator 
looked at it and concluded that Lynden were entitled to their fee.  He said that the authority 
Mrs N had signed in August 2019 included an agreement to Lyndens terms and conditions.  
And that the letter she got in October 2019 pointed out to Mrs N that she may have already 
agreed to them.  Finally, he noted that Mrs N had contacted Lynden in late November 2019 
with some queries about cancelling her agreement.  But shed not done so.
Mrs N didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ns told us that the only document she signed relating to Lynden was the letter of 
authority to her credit card provider, permitting Lynden to gather information to see if she 
had a viable claim for PPI mis-selling.  Shes adamant she didnt sign any other authorities or 
agreements.
Ive looked at the authority.  It includes a paragraph which says:
Due to closeness of the 29 August PPI deadline, in the event of PPI being found, I also give 
consent to Lynden Ltd t/as FindYourPPI to act on my behalf in relation to mis-sold financial 
products and claims against the Finance Company as instructed.
The authority itself makes no mention of any fee being payable.  But Ive also considered the 
screenshots Lynden have sent us, showing how someone reaches the point of generating 
the authority document.
The screenshots show that people who want to sign up have to complete their personal 
details (name, addresses etc) and tick which banks they had a relationship with.  The next 
page is Lyndens terms and conditions, including information about their fee.
Theres then a box - which has to be checked - which says:
I have read and accept the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy, including fee of 
20%+VAT for a successful claim. 
Im satisfied from this that the authority is not available to sign unless someone has agreed 
to the terms and conditions.
Mrs N has told us that she didnt see them because her husband completed the online 
details and simply printed off the form for her to sign.   I dont doubt thats what happened.  
But Lynden wouldnt know that.  And I dont think its fair for me to say theyre not entitled to 
rely on Mrs Ns signed authority as evidence shes accepted their terms and conditions.
Ive also thought about whether Mrs Ns later actions should change whether Lynden are 
entitled to payment.  Mrs N has said she understood the letter she received in October 2019 
required her to do something before Lynden could represent her.  And as she did nothing, 
she thought they werent.
I can see how Mrs N could interpret the letter that way.  Ive read it carefully.  And Ive seen 
that its confirming a claim has been accepted by the credit card provider  not asking for 
authority to submit one.  It enclosed a questionnaire for Mrs N to provide any extra 
information which might support that claim.
And it highlights Lyndens terms and conditions, and that Mrs N may already have agreed to 
them  which she had.  So Im not persuaded that her not replying to the letter means Mrs N 
had no agreement with Lynden.I accept that Mrs N was thinking about cancellation.  Ive seen emails she exchanged with 
Lynden about that possibility in late November and early December 2019.  But these 
conclude with an email from Mrs N which finishes by saying:
I would be grateful if you continue representing me in relation to the PPI claims.
Im satisfied from this it was reasonable for Lynden to believe they were still dealing with  
Mrs Ns claim.
Finally, Ive considered whether Mrs N had to do anything herself to have her claim accepted 
by her credit card provider.  I asked our investigator to contact the provider to check this.  
The provider confirmed that theyd dealt with the claim based on the information from 
Lynden  and that theyd told Mrs N this.  And they confirmed that hadnt needed to get any 
more information from Mrs N to uphold her claim.
So Im satisfied that Mrs Ns claim was processed on the basis of information provided to her 
credit card provider by Lynden.  And I think its reasonable for Lynden to receive their fee for 
that, which is why Im not asking them to do anything more to resolve Mrs Ns complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint about Lynden Ltd, 
trading as FindYourPPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman