DRN-3265555
The complaint
Mrs M is seeking to recover £10,645.00 from HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC); the total of 
several payments she made from her bank account as a result of a third-party scam 
between February 2019 and January 2020.
Mrs M is represented by her daughter-in-law, but I have referred to Mrs M throughout this 
decision, even though during o daughter-in-law giving testimony on behalf of Mrs M.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 9 April 2021 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mrs Ms testimony.
Mrs M says she was contacted in February 2019 by a scammer claiming to be able to help 
her recover £43,000.00 from a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs M says she 
was told in order to receive the refund, she would need to provide the scammer with a 
cheque for £1,195  which she duly did on 28 February 2019. Following this, the scammer 
asked Mrs M to send him two further cheques; one on 15 March 2019 for £2,650, and 
another on 4 April 2019 for £3,780.
Mrs M told us, after receiving the cheques, the scammer proceeded to coerce her into 
receiving cheques for him, cashing them in, and then sending the cash to him. Mrs M 
continued to do this until 21 January 2020, believing she would receive the promised PPI 
refund.
Mrs Ms daughter-in-law explained the family had a meeting with HSBC in branch in 
October 2019, where there were apparent concerns on the usage of Mrs Ms account. But 
it wasnt until February 2020, Mrs Ms family discovered she was falling victim to a scam 
after a review of her finances.
Mrs M says the transactions in question were unusual for her account. Prior to the beginning 
of the scam in February 2019, Mrs M had only two notably large transactions: one in June 
2018 - a payment for a holiday and the second - a transfer for £4,000.00 in December 2018 
to Mrs Ms savings account. Mrs M considers the value and frequency of the transactions 
made during the scam shouldve therefore shown as unusual.
HSBC says it is unable to provide a refund to Mrs M due to the nature of the transactions 
because they were made up of withdrawals and cheques rather than bank transfers and 
therefore not covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM).
The investigator upheld the complaint. She considered by the high level of spending in a 
short period of time should have triggered HSBC to intervene by the second cheque 
onwards.
HSBC didnt agree. It said:
It agreed on a goodwill basis to refund the payments on 17 December 2019 
and January 2020, totalling £2,745, plus interest at the account rate.
There is no distinction between the cheques and cash withdrawals in 
the investigators assessment and it feels there should be.
Cheques are not subject to the Payment Services Regulations 2017, but the 
assessment treats the payments in the same manner as an automated push 
payment scam where the payment is made by electronic channels; payments 
by cheque require a different analysis.
The investigator has clearly departed from relevant law here but has not 
given reasons for doing so.
With a cheque, payment takes place when the cheque is delivered. It has been 
settled law for over a century that once a cheque is honoured on first 
presentation, then the payment becomes unconditional on the date it was 
originally made: i.e. when the cheque was delivered to the payee. Whereas an 
online payment can be prevented before it is made, this is not possible with a 
cheque.
The cheques being of a higher value than other transactions on the account 
does not give HSBC cause to stop them. There is also no indication as to what 
legal or regulatory standards, or guidance the investigator has relied upon in the 
unusual transaction analysis.
The first cash withdrawal was only for £750.00, £250.00 of which constitutes 
loss. HSBC does not accept that this transaction was unusual such that it ought 
to have prevented it.

It notes that the investigator has applied a punitive level of interest of 8% to the 
refund. It is unclear how this level has been determined to be appropriate. There is 
no evidence to suggest that, if Mrs M was returned to the position, she was in prior 
to making the payments, she would have obtained interest on those sums at such 
a level.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 December 2021 explaining why I was thinking of 
reaching a slightly different outcome to the investigator.
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision. HSBC also accepted the proposed settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For 
completeness, I have set this out below.Cheques between 28 February 2019 and 4 April 2019
A cheque is a written order from an account-holder, instructing their bank to pay a
specified sum of money to a named recipient. A cheque is not considered a payment 
service under the previous or present Payment Service Regulations (PSRs), so the 
provisions of those regulations do not apply to this type of payment.
A banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the terms and 
conditions of the account contract. This position has long been recognised at common law. 
So, if it fails to comply with a validly-executed payment order, the bank could be held liable 
in damages  as could the drawer (i.e. payer) where the payment method used is a 
cheque.
The starting position is that the bank is expected to process payments that a customer 
instructs it to make without undue delay. So, presented with a cheque drawn in 
accordance with the terms of the contract, a bank must honour the payment unless there 
are legal, regulatory or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional circumstances, 
allow refusal of a payment instruction.
Here it is accepted that the payment mandates were validly executed (authorised) as 
Mrs M herself had written, signed and issued the cheques to the named payee. At the
time, Mrs M intended to pay the scammer believing she would get a refund on a PPI 
policy and there was no mistake made in the execution of the payment  HSBC was 
complying with Mrs Ms instruction. So, under the terms and conditions of the account, 
Mrs M is presumed liable for any loss in the first instance.
However, it is fair and reasonable to rebut such a presumption if there is clear evidence 
that a bank breached its duty of care by not acting adequately or at all on information that 
would or should have triggered fraud alerts and systems required for the proper conduct 
of business.
I dont consider there to be a material difference between the reasonable, good-practice 
requirements on firms when processing either cheques or electronic payments when it 
comes to monitoring accounts for the prevention of financial crime and having adequate 
systems and controls in place to prevent misappropriation of funds. I have noted HSBCs 
comments, but I have seen nothing to persuade me that a bank should be less vigilant, or 
fail to carry out due diligence, just because the payment is by cheque.
What can be considered unusual or uncharacteristic clearly requires reference to 
common activity on an account. Ive looked back at the account statements as far as June 
2018 to assess this. Whilst I accept, the cheques were for larger amounts than Mrs M 
usually paid, she did make payments by cheque on a reasonably regular basis. On 22 
February 2019; a week before the first disputed transaction, Mrs M had written two 
cheques for around £700 and £150 but prior to that they were usually for around £15-25.
The first cheque to the scammer on 28 February 2019 was for £1,195 - a balance of
£1,127 remained in her account. I agree with the investigator that I dont think this would 
have caused HSBC concern. Within a week, on 6 March 2019 Mrs M made a transfer of
£2,000 by telephone banking. 9 days later Mrs M sent a second cheque to the scammer for
£2,650. On 23 March 2019 Mrs M made another transfer  this time of £4,000 by 
telephone. 12 days after that she issued the third cheque to the scammer for £3,780, 
leaving a balance of £1,343.
I dont think this pattern of activity would obviously have aroused suspicion with HSBC. The 
payments werent significantly large enough and there were large gaps between the 
payments to the scammer. There were also gaps between the transfer from savings into the account before cheques were subsequently raised. Although I do note the balance 
reduced, it wasnt to a level where I think HSBC ought reasonably to have been concerned. 
Ive thought carefully about the values of the cheques here as well as the gaps between 
each cheque and transfers into the account, but overall, I'm not persuaded that there was 
enough suspicion about the activity that I wouldve expected HSBC to intervene here  
even by the third payment.
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Of course, those 
arrangements do need to accommodate that spending habits alter, unusual needs arise 
and it will be impossible to prevent all fraud without a significant number of genuine 
payments being delayed considerably and inconveniently. It remains that the payments 
here werent fraud on the account itself. To the bank, it was a genuinely authorised 
payment. On the face of it, it seems to me that that there was no reason why the 
payments wouldnt have seemed genuine.
Cash withdrawals 14 May 2019 onwards
It also seems, there were several cash withdrawals made in relation to the scam, the 
majority of which were funded by cheques provided by the scammer. But again, I dont 
think the amounts would have been significant enough to trigger HSBC to intervene for the 
same reasons as Ive explained above.
However, there did come a time when HSBC was put on notice about Mrs Ms vulnerability. 
This seems to have been sometime between August 2019, when Mrs M was the victim of 
another scam, and October 2019 when Mrs M says a meeting took place in branch about 
her account. HSBC has not provided any further detail about that meeting, but it does now 
acknowledge Mrs M is a vulnerable consumer. I think HSBC ought reasonably to have 
been aware of this; certainly, by the transactions on 17 December 2019 and January 2020. 
So, I agree it should refund these. Mrs Ms daughter-in-law raised the vulnerability flag with 
HSBC, acknowledging that 'although aged only 73, I think the above confirms that she has 
a poor understanding of finance, lack of financial judgement, does not understand the 
modern methods of communication, is very trusting and gullible to cold callers and 
therefore is very vulnerable'.
But I dont think Mrs M would have been knowingly regarded as vulnerable by HSBC at the 
time of the initial transactions because it seems to me it is only in spite of this, and another 
scam in August 2019, she is now regarded as vulnerable. So at the time of the initial 
transactions I dont think the requirements for the bank to be extra vigilant would be the 
same as they are now.
I do accept Mrs M has fallen victim to what can only be described as a cruel and
callous scam. Im sorry she has lost money and I can understand why she would like to be 
compensated for all her losses. However, despite my natural sympathy for the situation she 
finds herself in ultimately, I dont think the activity was suspicious enough such that HSBC 
should have intervened before August 2019. It therefore follows that I dont think
HSBCs refusal to reimburse Mrs M for those initial transactions was unfair or unreasonable.
Finally, Ive considered whether HSBC should pay Mrs M compensation for distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of HSBCs actions. In considering this, Ive 
specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs actions, rather than the impact of the crime 
itself. HSBCs failure to sufficiently act has had an impact on Mrs M, not least because she 
has been facing the very real possibility that she would not get her money back. As Ive 
explained, HSBC had an opportunity to prevent the scam continuing and some of the loss. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that HSBC should also pay Mrs M £350 for distress and inconvenience.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Mrs M, especially as it differs to 
the investigators assessment. I sympathise with her circumstances and I am sorry she has 
fallen victim to a scam. But having considered all the evidence and arguments, I dont think 
HSBC can fairly be held liable for her losses prior to August 2019.
Putting things right
8% interest
The payments made on 17 December 2019 and January 2020 were from Mrs Ms current 
account. I dont think those sums would have remained in the account - I think its likely that 
Mrs M would have spent this money on other things if she had not been defrauded. 8% 
interest is not intended to be punitive but is designed to compensate the consumer for 
being deprived of money. So, I do consider it fairest to award 8% simple interest for the 
loss of use of this money - from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. If 
HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Mrs M with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate.
HSBC should put things right for Mrs M as follows:
refund the payments on 17 December 2019 and January 2020 totalling £2,745
add interest at 8% simple on each transaction from the date of the transaction to 
the date of settlement. 1.
pay £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold the complaint and HSBC UK Bank plc should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman