DRN-2882105
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis advised by Barclays Bank UK PLC to re-apply for a loan 
which was declined, and that this has caused her financial loss.  
   
What happened
Mrs B was a Barclays Premier customer. She had an overdraft of £5000 and a credit card 
with Barclays. She had additional cards with other providers. In March 2020 she applied to 
Barclays for a loan of £30000. She had been told she was pre-approved for a loan up to 
£35000 and she wanted to consolidate her debts. 
The £30000 loan was approved at 5.2% but Mrs B appealed rate as she thought it was too 
high. 
Following her appeal, the interest rate was dropped to 4.5%. Mrs B spoke with a manager at 
Barclays about this on 26 March 2020 as she felt the interest rate was still too high as the 
Bank of England base rate had dropped. Mrs B was advised that she couldnt appeal again, 
but that one option was to reapply for the loan. She was further told that if she applied after 6 
April 2020 and she may get a lower interest rate as the rates a refreshed every month. 
When she applied again in April Mrs Bs application for £30000 was declined, but she was 
offered £5000. 
Mrs B complained to Barclays that she wasnt told that there was a chance she would be 
declined and so she was misinformed.  Barclays said that they couldnt reverse the loan 
decision, but they apologised that Mrs B wasnt told that the loan application might be 
refused and gave her £50 compensation. After further liaison with the complaints team, an 
additional £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience was given. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and he thought that Barclays offer for compensation 
was fair and advised that we are unable to look at the lending decision. 
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
Firstly, I need to explain that I dont have the power to tell Barclays to lend to Mrs B, or what 
interest rate should be applied. Lending decisions are commercial decisions made by the 
banks underwriters and are based on a review of all of an individuals circumstances 
including income, outgoings, existing levels of debt and the banks own internal lending 
criteria. At the time this application was made there were also significant external factors due 
to the start of the Covid-19 pandemic which will have affected the banks approach to 
lending. 
 
So, I have looked at what Mrs B was told, and whether she was misled by Barclays and if so, 
what the impact of this was on her.  I have reviewed all the information provided by both Mrs 
B and Barclays and Ive listened to all the calls. 
  
Mrs B says that Barclays told her that from March 2020 they were going to change the way 
her overdraft worked, and she would be paying a lot more. So, she decided to apply for the 
loan to consolidate her lending. She also wanted to clear her daughters credit card.
Mrs B was initially offered the £30000 loan at 5.2% in March and so she appealed the rate.  
She heard nothing and contacted Barclays at the end of March to find out what was 
happening. She was then told that the rate appeal had been returned at an offer of 4.5%. 
Mrs B still wasnt happy with this as she said the Bank of England base rate had dropped 
again and thought the rate should be lower. 
The call handler explained to Mrs B that the interest rate offered on loans will depend on 
individual circumstances and that there is no set rate that loans are offered at and so the 
base rate dropping will have been taken into account but it is only one factor in setting the 
rate for a loan. She explained that they also look at the individuals credit rating, income and 
outgoings and how they run their account.   
Mrs B was unhappy that the rate decision hadnt been communicated to her earlier and she 
had wasted money paying overdraft fees and so she asked to speak to a manager. The 
manager apologised that the outcome of the rate appeal hadnt been communicated to Mrs 
B, but explained that the pandemic was affecting their service levels because of staff 
absence and confirmed that the interest rate couldnt be appealed again. I think he made it 
clear that the 4.5% was the offer on the table, and that the only alternative was to make a 
new application to see if a lower rate could be offered.  
Having listened to the calls I can understand why Mrs B is upset. Although it was explained 
to her that in order to make a new application the existing one would have to be cancelled, 
and she agreed to that, it was never explained to her that the new application may be 
refused or that the lending on offer may be reduced. The conversation was really focused on 
the interest rate as that was Mrs Bs main concern. 
However, I also think that although she wasnt given complete information, she wasnt given 
incorrect information either. The offer of making a new application was given to her as an 
alternative if she wasnt willing to accept the 4.5% on offer  which during the call she seems 
unwilling to accept because she says she knows she can get 3.7 elsewhere. What she 
seems to want is Barclays to match that offer. 
I think that Mrs B did make the choice herself to make the new application to see if she could 
get a lower rate following 6 April rate refresh, and I cant say she was misled into doing so. 
She confirms in the call that she thinks this would be her best option, even though the offer 
of the 4.5% loan was still on the table during that conversation, and she is made aware that 
there is a risk in doing this as the rate is not guaranteed.    
In the subsequent call when the application was made, the call handler also explained that 
all applications were referred to the underwriters, and that because of the current financial 
situation following the outbreak of Covid-19, the underwriters need to ensure that people 
could afford the borrowing going forward. Mrs B was unhappy and felt that this also hadnt 
been explained to her fully, she was concerned about the impact on her credit rating and so  asked to speak to the manager again. He then explained that due to Covid-19 all pre-
approved limits had been suppressed and full applications needed to be passed to the 
underwriters. 
Mrs Bs application was unfortunately then declined by the underwriters who were only 
willing to offer £5000 on condition that the overdraft was cleared. 
Although Mrs B wasnt specifically told that the new application may be refused,  I cant say 
that she was given incorrect information, and I think that she did exercise a choice in making 
that second application to cancel the offer that she had. She knew that she was taking a risk 
with the new application that she wouldnt get what she wanted  ie, a lower rate, but she 
was willing to risk the 4.5% offer that was on the table to try this.  
 
Mrs B says that as a result of this misinformation, she has incurred interest on her cards of 
£700 per month and is being charged overdraft fees that could have been avoided. 
As I have said, although Barclays could have given fuller information, I think that Mrs B knew 
she was taking a risk of some sort in rejecting the offer that had been made and making a 
new application, and so I dont think they can be held responsible for all of the fees and 
charges that Mrs B has incurred since the loan was rejected. 
I can see that Barclays have already paid Mrs B £250 by way of an apology for not making 
the position clearer to her, and I think that this is sufficient.   
In view of the above, I will not be asking Barclays to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about 
Barclays Bank UK PLC
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman