DRN-2114875
The complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in one of the bank's branches in
2002 at the same time as Mr S applied for a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S says hes not aware of how PPI was added to his account, it was done without his 
knowledge. But he also says he was pressured into having PPI  which suggests he recalls 
it being discussed. I cant know what was said during the sale and Halifax no longer has the 
paperwork from the sale. This isnt unreasonable or surprising given how long ago the sale 
was. 
It has however provided a sample of the application form Mr S would have completed. This 
shows he would have to have selected PPI for it to be added to his account. And theres 
nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led him to believe it was mandatory. I 
have thought carefully about his comments, but I have to take into account how long ago the 
sale was and how that might affect what Mr S recalls. I havent found any other evidence to 
support his statement that he was pressured. 
Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made Mr S aware the PPI was optional, and he chose 
to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it needed to check if it was right for him given his 
circumstances at the time. I haven't seen anything to show it was unsuitable. Mr S was 
entitled to six months sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work 
benefits and for up to 12 months. It also gave him up to 12 months' redundancy cover. Mr S 
said he had significant savings but hasnt been able to confirm the value at the date of the 
sale. Plus the PPI would have allowed him to use any savings to cover other living expenses 
whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. So I think the PPI would have 
been useful for Mr S if he was sick or lost his job.
I agree its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear
as it should have been. But it seems Mr S chose to take out the policy and so appears to
have wanted this type of cover. It seems Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations, and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I
think it unlikely Mr S wouldve made a different decision if better information had
been provided. On balance, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything
Mr S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr S back some of the cost of the
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. And I understand Halifax has already paid
this to Mr S.
My final decision
I am not upholding this decision for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman