DRN-2676489
The complaint
Ms B believes that Nationwide Building Society lent to her irresponsibly by authorising her 
for a credit card which wasnt affordable for her.  
What happened
In January 2015, Ms B applied for a new credit account with Nationwide - with whom she 
also held a current account. Nationwide approved Ms Bs application and issued her with a 
credit account with a credit limit of £6,500.
In 2019, Ms B complained to Nationwide on the basis that they had allowed her to increase 
her credit limit when it had been unaffordable for. Nationwide looked at Ms Bs complaint, but 
they felt that theyd undertaken sufficient checks to ensure that the credit limit increases Ms 
B had asked for were affordable for her at those times, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service, referencing both the initial credit application and subsequent credit limit increases. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy review, including detailed 
correspondence with both Ms B and Nationwide, our investigator upheld the complaint 
because they felt that Nationwide had lent to Ms B irresponsibly when they first approved the 
credit account application in January 2015.
Nationwide didnt accept the view put forward by our investigator, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its my decision that Nationwide shouldnt have approved the initial credit 
account application made by Ms B in January 2015, and I will be upholding this complaint on 
that basis. My reasons for this are as follows:
Nationwide have confirmed the checks that they would have undertaken when assessing Ms 
Bs credit application, and these include reviewing the performance of Ms Bs other 
Nationwide accounts, including her current account. Nationwide also confirmed that they 
would also have conducted a check of Ms Bs credit file as well as gathered information from 
Ms B directly.
The checks that Nationwide describe here appear to be reasonable and proportionate and in 
line with what this service would expect. However, when conducting my own review of the 
performance of Ms Bs Nationwide current account  as Nationwide described that they 
would themselves have done  its of immediate and obvious concern that Ms B was 
consistently overdrawn throughout this period, often by significant amounts and close to the 
overdraft limit. 
Nationwide explained to this service that they wouldnt decline a customers credit 
application solely on the basis that the customer maintained a consistently overdrawn 
balance with them. I can understand Nationwides point here, to a degree, but it would be 
expected that the consistently overdrawn performance of Ms Bs current account would have 
been of concern here and should have prompted a more detailed check. 
And, had Nationwide checked the statement transactions for Ms Bs current account for the 
months immediately prior to the credit account application, it would have been seen that 
these included a large number of gambling transactions. Because of this, I find it difficult not 
to conclude that Nationwide would, or should, have arrived at a different decision with regard 
their approval of Ms Bs application for credit, had they undertaken a more thorough check of 
Ms Bs current account held with them, as the circumstances here warranted.
In addition, the credit limit that Ms B was approved for is also notable here. £6,500 is not an 
insignificant amount and was more than three times the overdraft limit on Ms Bs Nationwide 
current account at that time. 
All of which means that the information that I have available to me  all of which was 
available to Nationwide at that time - demonstrates that Ms B was in financial difficulty and 
that she was engaged in financial activity such that there was a tangible risk that her 
financial position would deteriorate further in the immediate future. 
And so, I cant conclude that it was fair or reasonable that Nationwide would approve Ms B 
for a credit account with a significant credit limit under these circumstances, and indeed I 
feel that I can only conclude that Nationwide did lend to Ms B irresponsibly in this instance. 
And I will be upholding this complaint on that basis.
Putting things right
Nationwide must reimburse all interest, fees, and charges applied to Ms Bs credit account 
since the date that it was opened.
If, following these reimbursements, an outstanding balance remains on the account, 
Nationwide should contact Ms B to arrange a suitable repayment plan, based on Ms Bs 
current financial circumstances.
If, following the reimbursements, there is no longer an outstanding balance, then any 
reimbursements that lead to a balance in Ms Bs favour should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date of 
the transaction being reimbursed until the date of payment to Ms B.
Nationwide must also remove all adverse information from Ms Bs credit file that relates to 
this credit account. If a payment plan has to be arranged with Ms B because of a remaining 
balance, this also should not be recorded on Ms Bs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman