DRN-4448732
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the quality of a mobile phone provided by Virgin Media Mobile Finance 
Limited (Virgin Finance) that he paid for using a fixed sum loan. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr R bought a mobile phone and funded the purchase via a fixed sum 
loan provided by Virgin Finance. The cost of the mobile phone was £972 and under the 
agreement Mr R was required to make 36 monthly payments of £27 to repay it. 
In May 2023, Mr R contacted Virgin Finance as the mobile phone battery was failing and he 
was experiencing issues with the reception in his area. Mr R says Virgin Finance told him 
there was a known issue with the battery on the type of mobile phone he had purchased. 
Given this Mr R asked for the mobile phone to be repaired, replaced or for him be allowed to 
start a new contract early. Virgin Finance refused these options and so a complaint was 
raised. 
Virgin Finance issued its final response and offered Mr R £50 for the issues with the mobile 
phones reception. This was due to issues in his area and wasnt to do with the mobile phone 
itself. Virgin Finance also confirmed its position that the mobile phone was outside the 
manufactures warranty period and so it wouldnt be taking any further action. Therefore, Mr 
R remained liable for the outstanding amounts due under the agreement. 
Mr R remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and concluded there wasnt sufficient evidence to 
confirm any fault was present or developing at the point of sale. They also confirmed our 
service wasnt able to consider the issues Mr R had experienced with reception in his area 
and so couldnt comment on the £50 Virgin Finance has previously offered. 
Mr R didnt agree and said he was told by Virgin Finance the model of mobile phone had a 
known issue with battery failing. He said the mobile phone should last at least the term of the 
finance used to purchase it. As it didnt, Virgin Finance should take responsibility and resolve 
the issue. 
As Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I agree that the Financial Ombudsman Service cant look at Mr Rs issues with the 
reception in his area. This isnt an activity covered by our rules. Mr R doesnt appear to 
dispute this. Therefore, should Mr R want to accept the £50 Virgin Finance previously 
offered for the reception issues, it would be something he would need to take up directly with 
it. 
Given this, what Ive considered in this decision is whether the mobile phone supplied to Mr 
R was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It allows, subject to certain 
criteria, someone buying goods and/or services on credit to claim for a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation against their credit provider when there is a like claim against the 
supplier. 
Those criteria include things like the cost of the goods being between £100 and £30,000 and 
there being a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. From what I can see here, all the 
necessary criteria for a claim to be made under s.75 have been met. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant here. It says that goods supplied 
must be of satisfactory quality, defined as meeting the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory taking into account the price, description of the goods and other 
relevant factors. Satisfactory quality also refers to the durability of the goods. This means if 
Mr R was provided with a mobile phone that wasnt of satisfactory quality, then Virgin 
Finance might be required to take further action to remedy the situation.
The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first six months. So, if the 
goods are found to be faulty after that time, its usually the consumers responsibility to 
evidence the goods werent of satisfactory quality. Mr R was supplied the mobile phone in 
December 2020. He reported the fault with the battery failing in May 2023, around 29 
months later. Given this, I believe the onus is on Mr R to show that the mobile phone wasnt 
of satisfactory quality or sufficiently durable.  
Mr R has explained the mobile phone is faulty due to a battery failing issue. He hasnt 
provided any further evidence to show that there is fault. For example, it doesnt appear the 
mobile phone has been assessed by the manufacturer or looked at by an independent 
engineer. Instead, Mr R is relying upon the information Virgin Finance gave him where he 
says it acknowledged his make and model of mobile phone had a known issue with the 
battery. 
While I dont dispute Mr R may have been told this, it doesnt automatically mean his mobile 
phone was of unsatisfactory quality. The battery issue on his mobile phone could be down to 
damage, amount of use, not having up to date software or even certain apps using battery in 
the background. As Ive said, above the onus here is on Mr R to show the mobile phone was 
of unsatisfactory quality and given whats been provided here, Im not persuaded that Mr R 
has clearly demonstrated it was. Whether that be at the point of supply or because the 
mobile phone wasnt sufficiently durable. 
Moving forward I would like to remind Virgin Finance of its obligation to treat Mr R with 
forbearance and due consideration in relation to any outstanding amount that remains owed. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman