DRN-2198448
The complaint
Mrs Ps representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC) complains that the advice 
provided by Zigma Financial Services Limited (Zigma) to invest £50 into a monthly savings 
plan was unsuitable and that the charges were excessive. 
What happened
Mrs P was a client of Zigma and had taken out investments with them since 1993. In 1997 
she met with an advisor at Zigma and was advised to take out a Savings Plan. The plan 
started in April 1997 and was due to run until April 2017. She paid £50 a month into this plan 
until December 2003 when she stopped payments into the plan. Mrs P had paid in premiums 
totalling £4,000 and received £6,200 on the surrender value of the plan when it matured in 
2017.
The CMC say that the high charges on the plan made it unsuitable and complained. Zigma 
investigated the complaint but did not believe that they had done anything wrong and did not 
uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with Zigmas response, the CMC asked the service to look at the complaint.  One 
of our investigators reviewed the case but also did not think that Zigma had done anything 
wrong and did not uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
Mrs P along with her husband had no outstanding liabilities and had enough income to 
invest 
The product recommended matched Mrs Ps attitude to risk
In his opinion, the charges were not excessive 
There is evidence that other options were discussed but Mrs P was happy with the 
recommended plan
The plan returned a gain of 55% even though it was only held for under six years of a 
twenty-year savings plan
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC has asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view for much of the same reasons and will not be upholding 
the complaint.
When a business provides advice to a consumer, they need to consider many factors which 
include the clients personal circumstances and experience, their financial commitments, 
attitude to risk and financial aims.  This is normally done via a fact find or suitability 
assessment and the answers will allow a business to provide advice that matches what the 
consumer is looking to achieve. 
I have read the Fact Find that Zigma completed in 1997. This fact find is a continuation from 
previous conversations with Mrs P from 1993 and 1995. In 1997, Mrs P was saving for a 
specific purpose although this purpose was not disclosed. Her attitude to risk was shown as 
medium and it was noted that she had taken out a savings plan in the previous five years. 
Mrs Ps savings and outgoings are not shown on the 1997 fact find but there is a note to say 
that there have been no major changes since the last fact find. I can see from the file that the 
family outgoings had reduced by £1,000 a month following repayment of a bank loan and 
that the mortgage had been repaid. From what I have seen, there was nothing to suggest 
that Mrs P could not afford the £50 monthly payments into the plan.
The advisor at Zigma wrote to Mrs P following the fact find and summarised the 
recommendation. He said that his advice was to take out a regular savings plan with a well-
known provider. He said that other savings vehicles were explained but for her specific 
purpose, the regular savings plan was most suitable.
He also summarised the plan benefits including that they had life assurance and critical 
illness cover. The plan was a with profits plan. The advisor recommended the plan be taken 
out over 10 years with a waiver of contributions but states that as Mrs P was saving for a 
specific purpose, she has chosen the 20-year term with no waiver of contributions.
The advisor wrote that the charging structure of the plan was explained together with the 
commission that Zigma were charging. It notes that Mrs P understood the matter well and 
gave permission to go ahead with the plan.
The CMC claim that the charges for the plan were excessive. The plan included life cover 
and critical illness which would pay out £9,000 or the value of the fund if greater. The plan 
illustration shows what the return would be with and without the cover.  With the cover 
included, the reduction of yield is shown as 1.7%.
I have reviewed the details on the fact find and the advice letter sent to Mrs P and I can see 
evidence that the charges were disclosed to Mrs P and that she understood what it would 
cost. The advice letter says:
Your plan is issued in the form of a number of separate policies which gives addition 
alternatives. Life Assurance Cover to protect your dependants and Critical Illness Cover 
gives you financial peace of mind, knowing that the life cover will be paid out if you are 
diagnosed as suffering from one of a range of illnesses. 
Option to increase your premiums over 5 years Guaranteed Cash Sum
after 20 years if it has been maintained on a with profits basis
Ive considered the cost of these additional elements of cover within the plan. As Mrs P 
wished to extend the plan beyond the normal term to a period of 20 years, I can see that 
there is value in having policies in place which would have protected her capital in the event 
of illness.   Given that the plan was for a period of 20 years, I dont think that the cost was 
excessive. 
In summary, I think that Zigma recommended an investment that was suitable for Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the point of sale. From what I have seen there is nothing to suggest that 
she could not afford the premiums and that the plan was explained and understood by her. 
The plan included life cover and critical illness that gave her additional protection over the 
term of the 20-year plan.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman