DRN-3062922
The complaint
Mr As complaint concerns the closure by Plus500UK Ltd of several CFD positions on his 
trading account. He says the margin call that led to the closures was incorrect as it was a 
result of Plus500s prices failing to reflect the underlying market. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties and broadly accepted, so 
Ill provide only a brief recap. 
In April 2020 Mr A had five Oil Option CFD positions closed out on a margin call when a drop 
in price led to his account equity falling below the required level. A subsequent investigation 
by Plus500, prompted by his complaint, concluded that the prices on three of the positions 
had failed to reasonably reflect the underlying market. This had resulted in an incorrect 
margin call and the closure of the three positions at inaccurate prices, with the knock-on 
effect also leading to the closure of the other two correctly priced positions.  
Plus500 accepted it was responsible for the situation and to put things right it offered to 
credit Mr As account with £983.79, effectively putting him back as if the five positions had 
never been opened. It also offered £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
error. 
Mr A didnt accept this and referred the matter to this service. He had general concerns 
about the way Plus500 appeared to be operating accounts and that other customers might 
have been subject to similar errors. But he also felt he should be compensated for the loss of 
profits he couldve made had the positions not been closed. 
Having reviewed the evidence, our Investigator was satisfied with Plus500s explanation of 
the situation. So, he then gave due to consideration to whether (or not) its offer was fair, 
given Mr As comments. He said, in brief:
It was clear that without the pricing error the positions wouldnt have closed and 
wouldve continued. So, was it reasonable to try to determine what might eventually 
have happened?
There was no evidence to support when Mr A might have taken action to close the 
positions himself, or if hed had a pre-determined outcome in mind.
The market appeared to have been moving against Mr A, but it wouldnt be fair to use 
hindsight to try and determine a hypothetical position. Mr A position couldve become 
worse off.
He couldnt conclude that the positions would definitely have resulted in profit. He 
couldnt fairly or reasonably say that Mr A would either have suffered a loss or made 
any gains.
As such, the investigator concluded that Plus500s offer was a fair one.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the matters been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Plus500 has accepted its pricing error led to Mr As positions being closed incorrectly. So, 
the issue that remains for me to decide is whether its offer to compensate Mr A for the error 
is a fair one. 
I can appreciate Mr As frustration with the situation resulting from Plus500s error. And I 
accept that with the closing of the positions he lost the opportunity to potentially profit from 
them. But there is simply no way to now determine at what point any closures might 
otherwise have occurred and what an alternative outcome might have been. While a profit 
couldve been made, its equally likely  perhaps even more likely given the way the market 
was moving  that Mr A couldve ended up with an overall loss.
This being so, I think the resolution offered by Plus500  to effectively void the positions and 
make a payment to acknowledge the inconvenience caused  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. So, I wont be directing Plus500 to do anything more.
I note what Mr A has said about the way in which Plus500 might be generally operating its 
service and how this sort of problem could be being repeated for other customers. But as the 
investigator highlighted, our role is not to regulate or police businesses. Rather, its to 
investigate complaints about specific issues for individual customers and see if anything 
needs to be put right. If other customers have similar experiences to Mr A, they too can 
complain to Plus500 and ultimately to this service if they remain unsatisfied with the 
response.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman