DRN-1438309
 
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her chargeback.
What happened
Mrs K says she booked a flight with a company I will call  "P" in early 2019 for just under 
£715. She says she didn't receive the flight and was unable to travel. Mrs K says she asked 
Barclays to raise a chargeback which it did, and she sent the required information to it by 
registered mail. She says Barclays repaid the money but then took it back and said it didn't 
receive the requested information. Mrs K says it was sent and would like the money back.
Barclays says it raised a chargeback but has no record of receiving the requested 
information from Mrs K. It questions why Mrs K didn't follow up the information, she says she 
sent, until after the expiry of the chargeback time limit. Barclays accepts not dealing with 
parts of Mrs K's complaint as it should and has paid £150 compensation for that.
Mrs K brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
Mrs K had provided proof of posting information to Barclays and that the letter was signed 
for. The investigator didn't think Barclays had investigated matters fully and thought it should 
refund the money and add 8% simple interest from the last day the chargeback could have 
been made, which she thought was 23 May 2019.
Mrs K accepts that view.
Barclays doesn't accept that view and says under the chargeback rules a claim is unlikely to 
have been successful. It says the rules require an invoice and supporting documents and 
that there was no evidence Mrs K had raised the dispute with the merchant. It also questions 
the identity of the merchant as the e-mail exchange it has contains a different provider of the 
flight.
The complaint was referred to me and I asked Mrs K for further information about the 
apparent different flight providers and what documents were sent to Barclays.
Mrs K says the companies appear to be the same. She says she sent the itinerary to 
Barclays as well as the letters of complaint. She also says P told her that it would not refund 
the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that the fairest approach here would be for Barclays to refund the money.
I'm satisfied that Mrs K had sufficient concern about what happened with P to ask Barclays 
to raise a chargeback. I think on balance that suggests she was unhappy with what took 
place with her flight. I'm also satisfied that she sent Barclays the information she had in her possession by recorded delivery and the evidence suggests that information was received 
by Barclays. So I think Mrs K has done everything she was asked to do by Barclays and 
made the reasonable assumption that Barclays was dealing with the chargeback. I would 
also have expected Barclays to have asked Mrs K again for the requested information if it 
thought it hadn't received it before closing the chargeback. And if it had, then the mistake 
would have come to light within the chargeback time period. I also can't see any evidence 
that Barclays has tried to find out where the information went and why it was signed for.
I appreciate that Barclays says the chargeback would not have succeeded in any event as 
Mrs K didn't provide the appropriate information. I don't think it possible to reach that 
conclusion and I think it would have been for the card provider to reach that conclusion and 
not Barclays. I say that as I think it is impossible to say what view either party to the 
chargeback would have or the conclusions that would be reached as the chargeback didn't 
reach that stage due to Barclays mistake in not taking matters further. And in assuming 
incorrectly Mrs K had not replied to its request for further information.
I also think that Mrs K has now provided further details of the information she sent to 
Barclays which included a copy of her itinerary and correspondence between her and P. I 
also think she has provided evidence to us that suggests P and the business the e-mails 
were sent to are the same. So I don't think it possible, as Barclays says, to fairly conclude 
that insufficient information was provided for a chargeback to be successful.
Overall I'm satisfied that Mrs K sent Barclays the information she had in good faith. I'm 
satisfied that she wasn't at fault for the chargeback not being completed and that it's not 
possible to say what the outcome of the chargeback would be.
Putting things right
For those reasons I'm satisfied the fairest approach would be for Barclays to repay the flight 
price of £714.10 and pay interest on that sum. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs 
K £714.10 and pay 8% simple interest on that amount from 23 May 2019. If Barclays 
deducts tax from the interest then it should provide Mrs K with a certificate of that deduction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman