DRN-3961783
The complaint
Ms O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
Ms O has used a representative to bring her complaint to our service. 
What happened
In 2021, Ms O was looking for a property to rent in the Manchester area. She found a 
property and paid £1,220, being one months rent and a deposit. It turned out that the advert 
wasnt genuine and that Ms O had fallen victim to a scam.
Ms O raised a fraud claim with Lloyds the day after making the payment and asked them to 
refund her. Lloyds investigated Ms Os fraud claim but ultimately declined to refund her, 
saying she didnt do enough checks before making the payment.
Ms O wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms Os complaint and initially didnt uphold it. The investigator 
had requested information via Ms Os representative including communication between     
Ms O and those dealing with the property and information about the property that Ms O had 
rented. This information wasnt provided, so there was insufficient information for the 
investigator to be satisfied Ms O had made the payment as the result of a scam.
The representative didnt agree with the investigators opinion and raised several points 
including:
They were unable to get hold of Ms O in order to get the information the investigator 
had requested.
Ms O wasnt able to provide a copy of the advert for the property as she no longer 
had it.
We hadnt asked enough questions about Lloyds interactions with the receiving 
bank.
However, the representative later provided some of the requested information. As a result, 
the investigator reconsidered Ms Os complaint based on the new information. 
The investigator issued a second opinion saying there was sufficient evidence to be satisfied 
that Ms O was the victim of scam. However, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint, 
saying Ms O didnt have a reasonable basis to believe the property offer was genuine. They 
also confirmed that by the time Ms O reported the scam to Lloyds, only £6.53 remained in 
the beneficiary account which was returned to Ms O.
Ms O disagreed with investigators opinion and asked that the case be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds are a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like 
this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that an exception applies. In this case Lloyds say Ms O made the payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to 
pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having carefully considered the evidence and information that has been provided by Ms O 
and her representative, Im not satisfied that Ms O had a reasonable basis for believing the 
property being advertised was genuine. I say this because:
Ms O initially found the property advertised on an online marketplace. But says the 
advert contained a link which took her to a well-known online property rental 
company in order to make the booking  Ill refer to the property rental company as 
G. Ms O has also told us that she had communications with the landlord or owner of 
the property  but hasnt provided any evidence of these. There has also been 
reference to a separate lettings company  Ill refer to as W. The screen shots that   
Ms O gave, confirm a booking for a property and refers to a third separate company. 
Its unusual that a property advertised on a well-known property rental website would 
also be advertised on an online marketplace, as well as having a separate lettings 
firm involved. Weve been given no information on how all these different parties 
were involved in the property or what Ms O asked as to why there were so many 
different parties involved as well as a landlord that she says she talked to over the 
phone.
Ms O says that she did checks on the companies but hasnt provided any details as 
to what specific checks she did on any of the companies or what those checks 
showed her. Ive been unable to find a genuine company with the same name as W, 
or any online presence for them which is unusual for a lettings company and 
shouldve been concerning for Ms O.
Ms O told us shes used the well-known online property rental company (G) before. 
But she didnt make payment through their website and instead took their bank 
details from a website linked to the advert and made a bank transfer. This is not 
standard practice for this company and having to pay via a different method 
shouldve been a concern for Ms O.
Ms O has provided a screen shot for her booking which includes some details and 
one picture of the property. It says that it was a 2 bedroom and1 bathroom property 
and Ms O says it was close to Manchester University. From what Ive seen it appears 
the price Ms O was paying to rent the property is well below the price for similar 
properties in that area. Also, Ms O has told us she was having difficulty finding a 
property to rent, which would suggest there mayve been limited properties available 
which would further call into question the price if it was lower than usual. Its unclear 
what if any questions Ms O asked about the price of the property or what 
comparisons she had done to other properties shed looked at.
Its unclear how the payee Ms O made the payment to relates to the rental. While 
there is a reference to G in the transfer details, the account holders name is that of an individual and isnt related to any of the other companies or names that Ms O has 
given us. This is especially unusual as Ms O tells us that she believed she was 
booking the property through G. 
Lloyds have shown that Ms O was presented with a warning at the time she made 
the payment as the name on the account couldnt be matched to the payee name on 
her transfer request. Its unclear what questions Ms O asked as a result of this, or 
what additional checks she did.
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account all of these points collectively, rather than on 
an individual basis. I think there were enough warning signs that Mrs O shouldve done 
further checks to satisfy herself about the legitimacy of the deal before making the payment. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that Lloyds can rely on an exception to reimbursement under 
the CRM Code.
However, the CRM Code also requires Lloyds to take reasonable steps to protect their 
customers from APP scams. And, where they identify a scam risk, they should provide their 
customer with an effective warning.
In this case Im not persuaded that Lloyds shouldve identified a scam risk in relation to Ms 
Os payment and therefore werent required to provide an effective warning. I say this taking 
into account the size of the payment, that it was a single payment rather than a series of 
payments and because it wasnt unusual or out of character when looking at Ms Os 
previous account use. While I realise that this represents a significant amount of money to 
Ms O, a balance has to be struck between Lloyds identifying potentially concerning 
payments, and responding appropriately to any concerns, and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments.
 
So, while Ms O mayve been the victim of a cruel scam and lost money as a result, I cant 
fairly ask Lloyds to refund her because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Recovery of funds
Ms O has told us that she because aware of the scam when the link shed been given for G 
stopped working, approximately 12 hours after shed made the payment. And I can see that 
Lloyds contacted the receiving bank promptly when Ms O reported the fraud to them.
However, evidence from the receiving bank shows that the majority of the funds were 
removed from the beneficiary account within 30 minutes of them being credited and only 
£6.53 remained by the time Ms O reported the scam to Lloyds. So, there was nothing more 
that Lloyds couldve or shouldve done to try and recover Ms Os funds.
Ms Os representative has asked that we look into the actions taken by the receiving bank 
and its duty in aiding the recovery of funds. But, as the investigator has already explained, if 
theyre unhappy with the steps the receiving bank took that would need to be raised as a 
separate complaint. Under this complaint against Lloyds, I can only consider the steps 
Lloyds took and its liability to Ms O in the circumstances of this case. And, having reviewed 
everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds have taken the appropriate action.
I realise that Ms O is going to be very disappointed, but I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman