DRN-3485617
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Mr A is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill largely refer 
to all representations as being made by Mr A.
What happened
Mr A was a member of the RBS DB scheme pension. RBS says that, after the acquisition of 
the part of the RBS group Mr A worked for by a third party company, Royal Bank Insurance 
Services Limited provided advice to Mr A on whether to transfer his benefits from the RBS 
DB scheme to another provider. RBS has said it is responsible for complaints about Royal 
Bank Insurance Services Limited, so for ease of reference Ill largely refer to RBS.
RBS asked Mr A to complete a fact-find document, setting out information about his 
circumstances and objectives, which was discussed as part of the advice process. The fact 
find was completed around December 1998. RBS recorded that Mr A was 28, married, 
employed and owned a home with an outstanding mortgage of approximately £63,000. He 
was contributing to a group personal pension (GPP) scheme, established by his current 
employer, after it acquired part of the RBS group. This GPP was investment linked. And his 
employer was also making contributions to this GPP on his behalf. 
RBS said Mr As objectives, which he was considering transferring to achieve, were to 
maximise the level of his pension in retirement, ensure his family was provided for in the 
event of his death or being unable to work and to potentially retire early, at age 55. It did 
note though that Mr A was entitled to death in service and ill-health benefits through his 
employer, so he felt he had reasonable protection already in this regard. 
RBS also asked Mr A to make a selection on a scale of one to ten indicating how speculative 
he was prepared to be when considering investments (one being only happy to accept little 
risk with ten being very speculative). Mr A selected seven.  RBS used this information when 
establishing Mr As attitude to risk (ATR)  which it noted as being medium. 
In February 1999, RBS advised Mr A to transfer his DB scheme pension benefits into the 
GPP he was a member of via his new employer. The suitability report said the reasons for 
this recommendation were that the critical yield - the growth required of the new 
arrangement to be able to purchase equivalent benefits to those Mr A was entitled to under 
the DB scheme - was within RBSs guidelines of where it would recommend a transfer. Mr A 
had said he was comfortable with investment risk. And although the overall value of death 
benefits would be reduced, Mr A was comfortable with the death and ill-health benefits 
provided by his employer. So, by transferring he could improve his pension fund size, have 
access to more tax-free cash when he retired and benefit from a larger pension, including if 
retiring early.
Mr A complained in 2020 to RBS about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said his 
needs and the implications of transferring hadnt been properly considered and RBS had 
placed too much weight on his preference to potentially retire at age 55. He said he wasnt 
given a clear summary of the advantages and disadvantages and ultimately shouldnt have 
been advised to take on the significant additional risk involved with transferring.  
RBS didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said an appropriate analysis was undertaken at the 
time, detailed discussions took place and it was satisfied Mr A was in a fully informed 
position and was aware of the risks involved with transferring. So, it considered the advice to 
have been suitable.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the complaint but 
didnt think it should be upheld. He noted that Mr As key objectives were to maximise his 
pension in retirement and retire early. And based on the information recorded about Mr As 
income and expenditure at the time of the advice, the guaranteed benefits offered by the DB 
scheme seemed unlikely to meet his income needs in retirement, if retiring early. He thought 
the critical yield was achievable, based on the discount rates published by the regulator at 
the time and the recorded ATR. And given the length of time to Mr As potential retirement, 
and that Mr A was contributing to his new workplace pension to increase his provisions, he 
felt Mr A had sufficient capacity to take risks with his DB scheme fund. So, transferring 
seemed to give a better opportunity for early retirement and as a result he didnt think the 
advice given was unsuitable.
Mr A disagreed. He said he had no investment experience so his ATR should not have been 
recorded as medium and he shouldve been regarded as cautious. He said a guaranteed 
income was more desirable than one involving significant risk. And so, given how long was 
remaining until retirement he shouldve been advised not to transfer, retain the guaranteed 
part of his retirement provisions and supplement this through aiming to grow his other 
retirement provisions, to meet his retirement needs. Mr As representative also added it felt 
there were a number of decisions by our service on other cases that were relevant and 
indicated that Mr As complaint should be upheld.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He didnt think that Mr A 
shouldve been classed as cautious just because of his experience level. And he still 
considered the assessment of him having a medium ATR was reasonable, given his age, 
objectives and the length of time until retirement at the point of advice. The Investigator also 
explained that each complaint is assessed on its individual merits.
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The advice was provided by RBS in February 1999. At this time, it was regulated by the 
Personal Investment Authority (PIA). Based on the information Ive seen I understand the 
advising business was likely to have been a previous member of the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). When the PIA 
took responsibility for FIMBRA businesses in 1994, they adopted the FIMBRA rules. And 
these adopted rules applied at the time of the advice in this case.
The FIMBRA rulebook set out the expectations on members when giving advice. The key 
rules were as follows:
Rule 4.2.1 required an adviser to take reasonable steps to obtain relevant information 
concerning a clients personal and financial circumstances in order to provide 
investment services.
Rule 4.3.1 required FIMBRA members to take all reasonable steps to satisfy 
themselves that the client understood the risks involved in a transaction.
Rule 4.4.1 required members to establish, based on their knowledge of the client and 
any other relevant information which ought reasonably to be known to them, which 
types of investment that were the most suitable for them.
An amendment to the guidelines on best advice also required members to ensure their 
recommendations were made on the basis of the client's best interest rather than the income 
generated for the member.
Guidance by FIMBRA to members, specifically regarding recommendations to transfer 
benefits from a DB scheme, was also relevant here. Amongst other things this noted that 
many customers would be best advised to remain in the DB scheme. When giving advice 
about whether to transfer, other options  such as doing nothing  should be given equal 
consideration. And a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) should be carried out and discussed 
in simple clear language.
In short RBS was required to ensure the recommendation it made was in Mr As best 
interests having regard for his circumstances and alternative options.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr A with this in mind.
Firstly, I note that the information recorded by RBS during its meeting with Mr A indicated he 
felt a guaranteed pension did have some appeal. The suitability report said that Mr As 
existing pension was guaranteed. And the amount hed be due under the DB scheme would 
continue to increase until retirement. Furthermore the TVAS report, which Im satisfied was 
likely shared with Mr A as it was noted as being enclosed with the recommendation letter, 
set out what the pension amount under the DB scheme was likely to be at retirement  either 
at the scheme retirement age or age 55. So, I think Mr A was made aware his existing 
benefits were guaranteed. 
The TVAS report also set out that that the figures illustrated for what was achievable by 
transferring were not guaranteed and entirely depended on investment performance. And 
the suitability report reiterated that future retirement benefits would be dependent on 
investment returns. Taking this into account, while I think Mr A had indicated a guaranteed 
pension would appeal, I also think he was aware that he had a guaranteed pension under 
his DB scheme, and that any transfer would involve giving this up if he went ahead. So, he 
was in an informed position in this regard when considering the advice that was given.
RBS said in its letter recommending the transfer that one of Mr As objectives was to 
maximise his pension in retirement. Again, the pension the DB scheme wouldve provided 
was guaranteed and would continue to escalate in retirement. So, for the objective of 
maximising his pension to reasonably be met and the transfer to be in Mr As interests, RBS wouldve had to be of the opinion Mr As new pension was likely to grow at a rate that 
wouldve allowed him to purchase benefits that exceeded those of his DB scheme when he 
retired.
The critical yield outlines how much any new pension arrangement would need to grow by 
each year to allow Mr A to purchase equivalent benefits to that of the DB scheme. The TVAS 
report and other information Ive seen say that the critical yield required to match Mr As 
benefits at the normal scheme retirement age of 60 was 5.36%. And to match those benefits 
available at age 55  as Mr A had indicated a preference to potentially retire at that age if 
possible  the critical yield was said to be 5.77%. The suitability report said as a general 
guide RBS would usually recommend transferring where the critical yield was below 6%.
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate published at the time was 6.9% for 26 full years to retirement (as wouldve 
been the case if Mr A retired early at age 55). And the discount rate if he retired at the 
normal scheme retirement age of 60  31 full years from the date of advice  was 7%. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle 
projection rate 9%, and the lower projection rate 6%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr As 
recorded medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point 
in Mr A giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, it does appear, from the 
information available to RBS at the time of the advice that Mr A wouldve been likely to 
receive higher overall benefits than the DB scheme as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk.
Mr A has argued that his ATR should not have been recorded as medium and he shouldve 
been considered cautious, primarily because of his lack of investment experience. But while 
he might not have had significant investment experience, that isnt the only thing that needed 
to be taken into account. And when considering Mr A had a significant amount of time to 
retirement  time for investments to grow, fluctuations in value to even out and for him to 
make other retirement provisions  I dont think the classification of Mr As ATR was 
unreasonable. 
In any event though, I dont think that makes a difference to whether the transfer was 
suitable from a financial viability point of view. I say that because, the lower projection rate of 
the regulator still exceeded the critical yield. So even investing more cautiously, I think it was 
reasonable for RBS to conclude in the circumstances that the returns required to improve on 
his DB scheme benefits were achievable. And that transferring would meet his objective of 
maximising his pension.
Mr A has said that RBS made too much of his preference to retire early. But Im satisfied this 
was likely something he said he was interested in at the time. It is recorded in the meeting 
notes and was referenced in the recommendation. So, Im satisfied this was a genuine 
objective. And so, I dont think RBS was wrong to consider this. And in any event, RBS still 
considered the benefits available to Mr A at his normal retirement age of 60, and I think its 
clear the information at the time indicated Mr A was likely to exceed these if he transferred 
out of the DB scheme. I dont think Mr A necessarily needed the additional flexibility of the new scheme in order to 
meet this objective as it appears, he wouldve been entitled to take benefits early under the 
DB scheme. And if the transfer had been recommended for this reason alone  flexibility  I 
dont think this wouldve been appropriate, particularly given Mr A had a significant amount 
of time between the advice and retirement to potentially decide this. But as Ive explained, 
the information available to RBS suggested Mr A was likely to be better off at age 55, and 
age 60, by transferring. 
RBS did record that Mr As other objectives were to provide for his family in the event of 
either his death or ill health. And the DB scheme did offer a guaranteed spouses pension if 
Mr A predeceased his wife, which couldve been useful, as well as I understand dependents 
benefits. And these were lost as a result of transferring. But, given how far Mr A was from 
retirement the value of this benefit wouldve likely been comparatively low for a number of 
years  probably until retirement. He also seems to have indicated that he had good 
workplace benefits in place to cover these eventualities, so it wasnt unreasonable of RBS to 
conclude that the death benefits under the DB scheme were not essential, particularly, given 
his age and there being no indication of any ill health. It appears Mr A also likely had the 
option of taking private insurance to cover these eventualities, likely at a relatively low cost. 
And ultimately the primary purpose of the pension was to provide benefits to him in 
retirement. So, given the information available to RBS, particularly that Mr A indicated he felt 
he was already well covered in this area, I dont think the loss of the spouse and dependents 
benefit, although slightly conflicting with his objectives, meant that the transfer was 
unsuitable.
With all this in mind, in Mr As particular circumstances transferring doesnt seem to have 
been unsuitable and, when taking into account Mr As objectives to maximise his pension 
and potentially retire early, I think it was reasonable of RBS to conclude that it was in his 
best interests. 
I think RBS made it clear that Mr A was giving up guaranteed benefits by transferring. And it 
also seems, in my view, to have considered the alternatives. The suitability report indicates 
that transferring to an alternative transfer plan was considered, but the critical yield was 
calculated as being higher if Mr A did this. So, RBS felt moving to the GPP was more 
appropriate as the required growth rate was even more achievable. And I think not 
transferring, was also part of RBS consideration  as its analysis calculated what the 
position would be if Mr A remained in the DB scheme. And it provided that information to 
Mr A.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the advice given 
by RBS in 1999 was inappropriate or unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman