DRN-4112906
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) took an excessive amount of 
time to complete a Deed of Postponement (DOP) in relation to his second charge 
mortgage in order for him to complete a remortgage with his first charge lender, which meant 
he paid a lot more interest.
What happened
Mr W took out a second charge mortgage with Shawbrook for £367,475 (including fees) in 
December 2020 over a term of 240 months at an interest rate of 4.7%. He made an 
application for a re-mortgage with his first charge lender and was given a mortgage offer on 
14 April 2021. The purpose of the remortgage was to get a better rate and also to reduce his 
second charge mortgage with Shawbrook as this was costing him around £50 a day in 
interest. The remortgage completed on 2 September 2021.
Mr W says that Shawbrook took over six months to complete the DOP in order for his first 
charge remortgage to be able to complete, which he says is excessive. Mr W also says that 
he had to chase Shawbrook repeatedly and that he was provided with a number of excuses 
in relation to the delay. He also says that Shawbrook made it difficult to communicate and 
that it refused to discuss the matter with the solicitors for the first charge lender (the FCL 
Solicitor) on a number of occasions. 
Mr W says he has incurred additional solicitors fees for underwriting a second charge 
payment on completion of the first charge remortgage and that he has paid £50 interest a 
day for approximately six months whilst waiting for the DOP to be completed. He would like 
compensation for this in addition to compensation for the distress and inconvenience of 
having to make repeated calls to Shawbrook.
In its final response to Mr W on 10 November 2021, Shawbrook said that the initial request 
for a DOP was made on 17 May 2021 and its records showed that it had received all 
relevant documentation on 9 June 2021 in order for the application to be sent to its head 
office for a decision to be made. Shawbrook says the process for a response from head 
office can take up to four weeks if all documentation had been completed successfully but 
that due to unforeseen circumstances it was unable to process the request within its 
timescales and the DOP was executed on 19 September 2021. 
Shawbrook said that it had received a response from its head office on 12 June 2021 
advising that the DOP request had been declined. On 14 June 2021 it asked the head office 
for the reasons and on 18 June the head office responded to say the proposed DOP request 
did not meet its lending criteria.
Shawbrook upheld Mr Ws complaint about the time taken to process the DOP, the fact he 
was not initially provided with a reason the DOP was declined and the delay in the time 
taken for it to resolve his complaint and made a payment of £150 to reflect that. However, it 
said that it would not refund the fees required to process the DOP as this was a standard 
charge. It also requested further information in response to Mr Ws request to refund the 
interest charged as a result of the delays. Mr W has confirmed that he did not provide this as 
he referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and agreed that there were some avoidable 
delays but said that she hadnt seen evidence to suggest that this was for a period of six 
months. She noted that the DOP form had not confirmed that the purpose of the DOP was to 
partially reduce the second charge mortgage with Shawbrook. The investigator set out that, 
based on Shawbrooks quoted timescales, the DOP process should have completed on 9 
July 2021. She allowed a further two weeks for the completion of the first charge mortgage 
and recommended that Shawbrook should calculate the difference in interest from 23 July 
2021 to 2 September 2021 (when the first charge loan completed). She also recommended 
that Shawbrook pay Mr W an additional £150 (making a total of £300) in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Shawbrook disagreed with the view so the case has come to me to make a decision. It said 
that it was not aware initially that the DOP was to reduce the amount of borrowing on the 
second charge mortgage. It says that although it initially agreed there was a delay, the 
original DOP request did not confirm that the second charge mortgage would be partially 
reduced which prompted questions from head office. This omission meant that the loan did 
not meet the lending criteria and was therefore declined, causing a delay. Shawbrook also 
says that the £150 already paid for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in light 
of the fact that the original DOP form did not contain all the relevant information. It calculated 
that the interest charged on the £61,537.16 between 23 July 2021 and 2 September 2021 
was £319.09.
I set out in my provisional decision dated 5 April 2023 (reproduced below) why I was minded 
to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and 
evidence by 3 May 2023.
Mr W confirmed that he accepted the provisional decision. Shawbrook responded to say that 
it had previously provided its submissions disagreeing with the view and that it didnt have 
anything further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the 
investigators view in relation to the fact that there were avoidable delays. However, I 
disagree in relation to how Shawbrook should put this right. Ive explained my 
reasons further below.
Delay Prior to Application Going to Shawbrook Head Office 
Whilst Mr Ws mortgage offer from the first charge lender was received by Mr W on 
14 April 2021, I cant see that Shawbrook was asked to complete the DOP until 17 
May 2021.
Ive seen an email from the FCL Solicitor to Shawbrook dated 17 May 2021 
explaining that Mr W was proposing the remortgage and enclosing a copy of the 
mortgage offer and redemption statement. The solicitor also enclosed a DOP and 
requested that this was executed and returned as soon as possible if Shawbrook 
agreed to the postponement of the charge. Ive seen a further email dated 25 May 
2021 from the solicitors noting that they were still awaiting a response from 
Shawbrook and enclosing a further copy of the documentation.
Ive listened to the call made by Mr W to Shawbrook on 25 May 2021. During this call 
he said that the FCL Solicitor was not getting a response and that this was causing a 
delay. He was told by the advisor that Shawbrook had sent the FCL Solicitor a letter 
on 19 May and again earlier that day setting out what it needed for the DOP as the 
FCL Solicitor had also called to chase the matter earlier that day. Mr W asked if there was anything he needed to do and was told to fill it in and send 
it back and go from there pretty much. It was then Mr W who raised the fact that on 
the FCL Solicitors online portal it said that there may be a fee to pay for the DOP. Mr 
W was then transferred to another advisor and paid the fee immediately over the 
phone. 
Mr W then explained that he was borrowing more money on his first charge mortgage 
which puts him in a position where he could reduce the second charge loan with 
Shawbrook and he wanted to understand the process for doing that. The advisor told 
him how he could do this and I can see that Shawbrook sent a letter to Mr W on 25 
May 2021 thanking him for his enquiry about making an additional payment and 
providing him with its bank details.
So I am satisfied that, although it was not included on the DOP request, Shawbrook 
was aware at this stage that Mr W intended to use some of the money he was 
borrowing on his first charge remortgage to reduce the loan with Shawbrook. 
Mr W called Shawbrook again on 2 June 2021 to chase the matter up as he said the 
FCL Solicitor was still waiting for the letter and this was causing lots of delays. The 
advisor said that the form had been sent on 25 May 2021 and that it was just waiting 
for two things: the signed authority and first charge settlement figure. Mr W asked if 
an email could be sent but Shawbrook said that it couldnt send emails so he asked if 
it could be sent by post as well as fax which the advisor said he would do. 
I can see that Shawbrook then sent a fax to the FCL Solicitor on 2 June 2021 
requesting payment of the fees of £185, a signed authority from Mr W, a settlement 
letter from the first charge mortgage provider, copy of the new mortgage offer and the 
complete DOP the new lender wanted them to sign. 
Shawbrook also sent Mr W a letter on 2 June 2021 regarding his recent DOP 
application stating that if he gives authority to speak with his solicitors then it could 
deal directly with them. The letter also said he needed to pay the fees and requested 
a signed authority from all parties, a settlement letter from the first charge mortgage 
provider, copy of the new mortgage offer and the complete DOP the new lender 
wanted them to sign. The letter stated We wont be able to approve the application if 
the total lending secured against the property is too high.
It is unclear why some of these items were requested on 2 June 2021 as all of the 
documents apart from the authority appear to have already been sent by the FCL 
Solicitor on 17 May 2021 and then again on 25 May 2021. In addition, Mr W had 
phoned directly to chase the matter over a week earlier on 25 May 2021 and paid the 
fee directly on that date. So the only thing outstanding by 25 May 2021 was the 
signed authority.
I note that the FCL Solicitor had requested a redemption statement by fax on 28 April 
2021 to include a daily rate of interest. This was sent by Shawbrook to the FCL 
Solicitor on 20 April 2021, showing the redemption balance of £364,439.73 as at 4 
May 2021 with a daily rate of interest of £47.50. Shawbrook had neither requested 
nor received any signed authority from Mr W at this stage confirming that it could 
deal directly with FCL Solicitor, yet it still provided the information. 
Further, it was clear from the conversation on 25 May 2021 that Mr W had given the 
FCL Solicitor authority to act and it was also apparent that Shawbrook had already 
spoken directly to the FCL Solicitor in relation to Mr Ws account on 25 May 2021. 
So it seems to me that either (1) it was not necessary for Shawbrook to obtain any 
written authority from Mr W to deal with the FCL Solicitor  as it had dealt directly 
with them in previous correspondence and phone calls by this stage without any such 
authority  or, alternatively, (2) it was necessary  in which case Shawbrook should have asked for it before sending the redemption statement and speaking with the 
FCL Solicitor over the phone. Either way, if it was a requirement it should have been 
sought much earlier by Shawbrook. And there doesnt appear to be any reason why 
Shawbrook could not have progressed the application from 25 May 2021.
In light of the above, I am minded to find that Shawbrook had everything it needed to 
progress the application by 25 May 2021.
Delay Following Application Going to Shawbrook Head Office 
In any event, the FCL Solicitor sent Shawbrook an email on 8 June 2021 thanking it 
for the letter of 2 June 2021 and enclosing the authority from Mr W, stating fees were 
paid directly and requesting confirmation of receipt and enclosing a further copy of 
the mortgage offer, DOP and redemption statement which had already been sent on 
two occasions. Shawbrook has confirmed that the application was formally submitted 
on this date.
On 11 June 2021, the FCL Solicitor called to chase Shawbrook as she said the 
documents for the DOP had now been sent three times by post and email so was 
questioning the delay. Shawbrook advised that the documents had gone to its head 
office on 9 June and were being assessed. The solicitor informed Shawbrook that Mr 
W was chasing every day and it said that it would probably call Mr W and write to him 
but it was unable to respond by email.
On 17 June 2021, the FCL Solicitor called again to chase the DOP and was told that 
it had been declined as it didnt meet the criteria. She asked for the reasons and 
questioned why it would be declined as it was just postponing a charge whilst the 
new mortgage was put in place. Mr W also called Shawbrook himself on the same 
date to ask why the DOP had been declined and explained that he was trying to 
reduce his debt and that the delay was costing him money. 
On 18 June 2021, Shawbrook told Mr W that the DOP did not meet its lending criteria 
but that it could reconsider providing there was an overpayment made of around 
£61,357.16 from the balance. Mr W explained that there had been a breakdown of 
communication and explained that he was now in a position where he was able to 
borrow nearly double the amount on his first charge mortgage, so the DOP was to 
change his first charge mortgage company which would put him in a position where 
he can reduce his Shawbrook loan by nearly two thirds. So he said he was looking to 
pay far more off than £61,000. He explained that it was a lot more economical for him 
to have the bulk of the loan on the first charge mortgage rather than the second 
charge mortgage. So Mr W said it seemed to him that this information hadnt 
necessarily come across or hasnt been appreciated in this decision.
The advisor said Shawbrooks position was that  for it to be able to agree the DOP  
the balance needed to be reduced by £61,000 or the mortgage offer made by the 
new first charge lender needed to be reduced down to £536,962.84. Mr W said that 
he was not interested in the second option as he wanted to borrow as much as 
possible on his first charge loan but that it would only be possible to make the 
payment of £61,000 once the DOP had happened. He explained that once the first 
charge was dealt with, the remainder of the funds would be paid off of his second 
charge loan with Shawbrook (up to around £200,000) but that was the only way it 
could happen. Mr W said that he was happy to put this in writing. The advisor said 
that she could understand Mr Ws frustration and asked for Mr W to send the 
information by email. It would then be resent to head office to explain that he was 
looking to make a vast overpayment but that this couldnt be done until the DOP was 
agreed.  
Mr W followed up this call with an email the following day on 19 June 2021, where he 
clarified the two options discussed - to pay off a lump sum of approximately £60,000 of his second charge loan or to request a lower mortgage offer from the first charge 
lender of approximately £535,000. Mr W indicated that the second option was not 
viable as he was in a position where he could increase his first charge borrowing and 
reduce his second charge. Therefore, he would like to take the first option but that 
this was only possible once the deed of postponement was complete. He therefore 
recommended that  in order to complete the DOP  once the new first charge lender 
had transferred the funds to the FCL Solicitor he would ask them to transfer 
£100,000 to Shawbrook to take off of his second charge loan. He also indicated that 
he was looking to further reduce his second charge loan following this with additional 
payments.
In light of the above, I think that, in addition to Mr W informing the advisor by phone 
on 25 May 2021 that he was borrowing more money on his first charge mortgage in 
order to reduce the second charge loan, it was also made clear to Shawbrook on 18 
June 2021 that this was his intention. So I think Shawbrook was aware of the 
situation both before the application was sent to head office and this was clarified 
again only nine days after the request had been sent to head office. In light of this, I 
do not accept what Shawbrook says about not being aware that the DOP was 
needed to reduce the amount of borrowing on the second charge mortgage and that 
it was this which caused a delay.
Given that Mr W suggested in his email of 19 June 2021 that he would ask the FCL 
Solicitor to transfer some of the money to Shawbrook once it had received the funds 
from the first charge lender, it is surprising that an undertaking wasnt suggested by 
Shawbrook at that stage. 
However, from the calls and correspondence I have seen, Mr B chased the matter 
repeatedly over the next few weeks asking for updates. The calls referred to below 
are only a selection of the calls made and there were many others where Mr W was 
simply told that there was no update or that things hadnt been progressed as, for 
example, people hadnt been in the office due to COVID (call of 20 July 2021), there 
was only one agent in the DOP department (call of 30 July 2021), and that the deed 
had been sent by Shawbrooks to its solicitor but had gone missing as it was 
addressed to the FCL Solicitor rather than Shawbrooks solicitor (call of 12 August 
2021).  
On 28 June 2021, Shawbrook called Mr W back to say that the DOP didnt meet its 
lending criteria and that any payment would need to be made before the DOP would 
be agreed. 
On 30 June 2021, Shawbrook called Mr W asking if he wanted to pay off £100,000 
before the DOP or after and Mr W explained again that he could only make the 
payment after the funds have arrived from the first charge lender (and that he was 
told previously it was only £60,000). The advisor said that this would mean 
Shawbrook would need to get consent with an undertaking from its solicitors but that 
would incur a fee and they would let Mr W know what this cost was. 
Given that Mr W had made Shawbrook aware on 25 May 2021 of his intention to use 
some of the first charge funds to pay off some off the second charge loan and his 
suggestion on 19 June 2021 that he was happy to consent to an undertaking to pay 
the required funds off of the loan with Shawbrook, it is not clear why it took until 30 
June 2021 for Shawbrook to propose this as a way forward. 
During the call on 8 July 2021, Shawbrooks advisor said that its solicitors would 
need to write a letter for Mr W to sign saying that he would pay an amount off when 
the funds were released on the first charge mortgage. Given the delay in progressing 
this up until this point, Mr W asked if he could get his own solicitors to write the letter. He also spoke about the possibility of getting personal loans and a bridging loan to 
make the payment just to get the DOP signed off. 
Mr W followed this up in an email on 9 July 2021, stating that the FCL Solicitor had 
confirmed that it should not be a problem for them to make an undertaking to pay 
£100,000 off his loan with Shawbrook upon receipt of the first charge funds in order 
for Shawbrook to complete the DOP.  Mr W said that the solicitor required this in 
writing from Shawbrook and asked for Shawbrook to provide this today. 
Mr W also chased this in another call on the same date explaining that the FCL 
Solicitor needed a letter from Shawbrooks solicitor regarding what was required so 
that they could do the undertaking letter rather than Shawbrooks solicitor. He was 
told it would take 24-48 hours to deal with his email.
On 12 July 2021, Mr W called for an update and was told the DOP had all been 
agreed by Shawbrooks solicitors so it would need to be signed but the advisor 
wasnt sure of timescales. 
The FCL Solicitor called Shawbrook on the same date asking for it to specify in 
writing what it needs from them regarding the undertaking. On 12 July 2021, the FCL 
Solicitor also followed this up in a letter to Shawbrook asking it to confirm its request 
for an undertaking in writing, providing its bank details and the amount to be paid 
upon completion. The solicitor also stated that they would require Shawbrooks 
undertaking to return the sealed DOP on receipt of the amount it required to be 
repaid or return the deed prior to completion.  
It appears from Shawbrooks internal notes that the DOP was executed on 20 July 
2021 and it was then sent to its solicitor. However, the solicitor didnt receive it until 
10 August as it appeared to have been sent with the wrong address (which is 
apparent from the call between Shawbrook and Mr W on 12 August 2021).
Despite Mr W and the FCL Solicitor chasing this information repeatedly, it took until 
18 August 2021 for Shawbrooks solicitor to issue the undertaking letter to the FCL 
Solicitor, which indicated that they would have until 22 September 2021 to make 
payment. Although the advisor told Mr W over the phone on 17 August 2021 that the 
letter was being sent that day, it is clear from the internal notes that it wasnt in fact 
sent until 18 August 2021.
The completion of Mr Ws first charge mortgage took place on 2 September 2021 and 
£61,357.16 was paid off of his loan with Shawbrook by the FCL Solicitor on this date. 
The internal notes are unclear as to when the DOP was executed following the 
receipt of the funds but Shawbrook has said in its final response letter that this was 
on 19 September 2021. 
Given my findings above, it is my provisional view that Shawbrook had all of the 
information it needed to progress the application by 25 May 2021. It was also aware 
at that stage that Mr W intended to use some of the funds from the first charge 
mortgage to pay off some of his second charge loan with Shawbrook. So, taking 
Shawbrooks own timescales that it could take up to four weeks for this to be 
processed by head office, I think it would have been reasonable to expect the DOP to 
have been completed (based on the undertaking) by 22 June 2021.
The undertaking was provided on 18 August 2021, with the completion of the first 
charge mortgage and payment from that being made towards the second charge 
loan on 2 September 2021. So this took a total of 15 days. I think it is reasonable to 
assume that it would have taken a similar amount of time had the undertaking been 
provided earlier. So, had the DOP and undertaking been completed by 22 June 
2021, I think Mr W would have been able to make the part repayment of £61,357.16 
towards his second charge mortgage by 7 July 2021. In light of this I think Shawbrook should refund the additional interest Mr W paid on 
this portion of the loan between 7 July 2021 and 2 September 2021 compared to 
what he would have paid if he had been able to complete the new first charge 
mortgage on 7 July 2021. I have seen the mortgage offer for the first charge loan 
which sets out the interest rate was fixed at 1.23%. I think this is reasonable as Mr W 
still would have had the debt, just on a lower interest rate.
As set out above, Mr W (and the FCL Solicitor) had to chase Shawbrook repeatedly 
for updates both by phone and in writing. He was also told he would be called with 
updates which did not happen and given timescales which were not met. It seems 
that there was insufficient communication between different parties at Shawbrook 
which meant Mr W also had to explain the situation in relation to wanting to use the 
first charge mortgage to pay off some of the second charge mortgage on a number of 
occasions despite making his intention to do so clear at the outset. There were also 
significant periods where no progress appeared to have been made. 
So I think the whole application could have been handled a lot more efficiently by 
Shawbrook and Mr W was put to considerable inconvenience in having to try and 
progress matters. It is clear that these delays would have been extremely frustrating 
for Mr W at what was a stressful time when he was trying to reduce his second 
charge loan. In light of this, I think that Shawbrook should pay Mr W a total of £300 
for the distress and inconvenience caused (including the £150 it has already paid).
Mr W has indicated that he accepts the provisional decision. Shawbrook responded to say 
that it had previously provided its submissions disagreeing with the view and that it didnt 
have anything further to add. I confirm that I considered these earlier submissions when 
coming to my provisional decision. In light of the fact that neither party has provided any 
further information or submissions, I see no reason to depart from my reasoning in the 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Shawbrook to:
Pay Mr W the difference between the interest he paid on £61,357.16 of his mortgage 
with Shawbrook between 7 July 2021 and 2 September 2021 and the interest he 
would have paid on this figure over this period had he taken out the first charge 
mortgage on 7 July 2021 at a rate of 1.23%.
Pay Mr W 8%* simple annual interest in respect of the above, calculated from 2 
September 2021 until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr W £300 in respect of the distress and inconvenience (including the £150 it 
has already paid).
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Shawbrook to take off tax from this interest. 
Shawbrook must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decisions I uphold this complaint 
against Shawbrook Bank Limited and require it to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman