DRN-2931653
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) are unable to trace a 
policy held by his late wife. 
What happened
The endowment policy was taken out by Mr Ks wife in 1980, through a predecessor scheme 
of Aviva. It had a sum assured of £10,000 and a term of fifteen years. 
Mr K tried to make a claim under the policy in 2020. Aviva responded to say that despite 
checking all archives they have, there was no record of the policy. They acknowledged that 
they took over responsibility for these plans in 1998, but as there was no record of it, it must 
have matured or been surrendered before then. 
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
He said that neither his late wife or himself had ever received the proceeds from this policy. 
He said that he could show the existence of the policy and that it was up to Aviva to show 
that it was paid out. 
Our investigator looked into it and he didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. He felt that 
it was most likely it was settled prior to 1998 and he couldnt hold Aviva responsible for 
neither party being able to confirm what happened. 
As Mr K remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
I assess any complaint on the evidence thats been made available to me by each side. If 
that evidence is conflicting or lacking, as it is here, I decide what is more likely to have 
happened on the balance of probabilities. 
I understand this has been very frustrating for Mr K. He has a policy schedule which shows 
that the endowment plan was in place but there is no evidence to show what happened to it. 
My decision is therefore based on what I think is more likely to have happened. 
Mr K is unhappy that Aviva are unable to show what happened to the policy. However, they 
are only expected to hold details of policies which are still in force, not for policies which 
have paid out or been surrendered more than six years ago. Therefore, if this policy did pay 
at the end of the initial fifteen-year term, Aviva have done nothing wrong in not having 
documentation or any evidence of it. 
There is the possibility that the terms of the policy could have been extended, with a lower 
sum assured as a free policy as the policy terms suggest, but I would expect to have some 
evidence to support this. But Aviva has no records that it took ownership of this policy and 
Mr K cant provide anything to confirm this so I think its unlikely the term was ever extended. 
In summary, I think it is more likely that this policy paid out in the past. There is a lack of 
evidence from both parties and there isnt enough for me to conclude that this policy should 
still be in force and Aviva have done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman