DRN-4119121
The complaint
Miss K has complained about damage she says was caused by an engineer when her car 
was repaired. Miss K made a claim under her car insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK 
Plc. 
Miss K has also complained about poor service, the courtesy car she received and delays 
she says AXA caused. 
What happened
Miss K made a claim to her insurer, AXA for damage to her car to be repaired. Miss K 
complained that AXA had failed to arrange complete repairs to her car, and that the repairer 
had caused further damage. 
AXA upheld Miss Ks complaint in part. It agreed to carry out some of the repairs, but not all 
Miss K was claiming for. It paid Miss K compensation of £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused for issues with providing a replacement car (£150)and for its delay 
(£200).
Miss K remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our Investigator recommended AXA arrange for the remaining repairs identified by an 
independent engineer to be completed. She thought some of the delays were avoidable and 
so recommended AXA increase the compensation for this from £200 to £350.  
She found that AXA had fairly compensated Miss K by paying £150 for the issues she had 
with a courtesy car and had arranged for the car to be changed to a larger vehicle to 
accommodate Miss K, outside of the policy terms. The Investigator agreed the repairs to the 
brakes and for pre-existing damage identified by the independent engineer (IE) did not need 
to be repaired by AXA. 
So she recommended AXA increase the compensation by £150 to £500 in total.
AXA advised that Miss Ks car has since had rectification repairs but is agreeable to having 
points 1, 6 and 10 from the IEs report to be further inspected to look to resolve for Miss K. 
Miss K didnt agree. She said her car has been repaired. She isnt happy with the 
compensation as she says it doesnt reflect the impact of AXAs poor service. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss K was unhappy with the repairs carried out to her car, AXA instructed an 
independent engineer (IE) to assess the damage. 
The IE found that some repairs needed rectification. However, he didnt find that all of the 
damage Miss K claimed for was caused by the repairer as he found some to be existing 
before the claim. I appreciate that Miss K wants AXA to include repairs to the brakes due to 
the delays it caused, but that isnt something AXA is responsible for. 
AXA accepts it caused delays and at times provided a poor service. I think it is reasonable of 
AXA to rely on the professional opinion of the IE who identified some rectification works were 
needed. I understand Miss K was provided with a more suitable courtesy car on two 
occasions while her car had been with the repairer. She said the car caused back pain for 
her - and she needed a suitable vehicle to take a relative to hospital appointments. 
I understand that having to deal with the claim will inevitably cause disruption and take up 
some of our own time. However, I think AXA at times provided a poor service and caused 
undue delays in arranging for Miss Ks car to be repaired and updating her on her claim. I 
appreciate Miss K has spent time making calls to AXA for updates while it was dealing with 
her claim. So I think AXAs poor service made an already disruptive time more inconvenient 
for Miss K. 
In Miss Ks email dated 19 April 2023 she says her car is repaired, but remains unhappy with 
the compensation award. AXA has reiterated that the issue with the brakes is not something 
covered under the policy - as mechanical failure is excluded from cover. As Miss K says the 
brake failure led to the incident in colliding with another vehicle, this means the brakes were 
damaged or faulty before the incident and not damaged by the incident. In relation to the 
remaining issues from the IE report, AXA says:
The engineer has been in touch with (repairers name inserted here), the original 
body shop who did the works to the customers vehicle. After the original repairs were 
done, the customers vehicle was not returned to them. The customer refused 
collection due to the issues with the workmanship. (repairers name inserted here) 
kept the vehicle on site and after (IEs name inserted here), (repairer name) did in 
fact complete some of the work to try and resolve the issue.
From the (IE) report, which I have attached again for ease, (repairer) confirmed they 
dealt with items 2, 5, 7, 8 and 9.
In respect of items 3 and 4 they advised this was pre-existing and therefore would 
not deal with these items.
In respect of items 1 and 10 these are outstanding. Our engineer advises me we can 
look to get the vehicle back to (repairer) to try and get this rectified. From the 
description of the damage he has advised that initially we could look to try and polish 
the bonnet and door and this may resolve the issue. He anticipates it shouldn't be too 
hard to resolve these 2 items to an appropriate standard.
In respect of item 6, (repairer) did attempt to resolve this. From our engineers 
investigations into this he has advised that it's possible the roof rail can be polished 
but it might need a new roof rail.
In respect of item 11, (repairer) felt the work was to an acceptable standard. 
Evidently the issue is to do with a lip on the paint finish where the black meets the 
diamond cut on the alloys. (repairer) felt the only way to truly get the wheels to the 
standard the customer wants would be for replacement. However, this isn't really 
justified as the workmanship isn't poor, it's just not possible to get it as perfect as the 
factory finish. Our engineers view is that if the vehicle is brought back to (repairer) he 
would be prepared to arrange an inspection himself to see if he might be able to 
suggest a resolution.
AXA agreed that further efforts should have been made sooner to solve matters for Miss K. 
It proposed to arrange for Miss Ks car to be returned to the repairer for items 1, 6 and 10 
from the IE report, along with further inspection of the alloy wheels (point 11). In response, our Investigator clarified that she recommended all remaining repairs apart from 
the pre-existing issues (3 and 4) and possible brake failure (12) should be carried out by 
AXA, in recognition of the avoidable delays caused. 
AXA in response said their engineer is broadly in agreement with the recommendations 
apart from item 11, which the engineer says wasnt convinced was done to a poor standard. 
However, it agrees to arrange for Miss Ks car to be returned to the repairer and for items 1, 
6 and 10 to be inspected by the IE and for the wheels to be checked if repaired to an 
acceptable standard. 
Under the IE report, point 11 reads:
Replace left hand front and rear alloy wheels. (repairer name inserted here) has 
agreed the wheels have not been refurbished perfectly, but is not willing to accept the 
cost of 2 new wheels and would require an additional authority to replace the wheels. 
This matter is left to your discretion.
In light of the engineers additional comments above on this issue, I think AXAs proposal to 
look at the alloys again is reasonable. 
So to clarify, in line with the Investigators recommendations - due to the delays caused by 
AXA - my decision is for AXA to carry out repairs under items 1, 6 and 10, rather than further 
inspect these issues. 
I appreciate that Miss K doesnt agree the compensation is enough to put things right. But I 
think the repairs, with the additional £150 compensation Im awarding, is a fair way for AXA 
to resolve Miss Ks complaint. This brings the total compensation to £500 for the distress 
and inconvenience AXA caused Miss K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do 
the following:
If it hasnt already done so, arrange for the remaining repairs to be carried out to Miss 
Ks car in line with the IEs report for points 1, 6 and 10 and to further inspect the 
alloy wheels (11). 
Pay Miss K £150 in addition to the £350 compensation its already paid. If it hasnt 
already paid the £350, to pay Miss K a total of £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate 
of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman