DRN-3125824
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) treated her when she was experiencing financial difficulty.
What happened
In February 2017 Ms W acquired a new car. The car cost £28,306 and Ms W paid a deposit 
of £4,276. The rest of the balance was funded with a hire purchase agreement provided by 
VWFS. The agreement was over 48 months, with repayments of £341.45 a month and a 
final payment of £12,160 if Ms W wanted to keep the car at the end of the term.
Unfortunately, Ms W lost her job some time later. It appears a private insurance policy paid 
out enough for her to cover the repayments for around a year, but in March 2020 Ms W says 
she realised she wouldnt be able to make the full payments moving forward and called 
VWFS to discuss things.
VWFS said Ms W wanted to keep the car and pay £85 per month. VWFS said it explained to 
Ms W that she could voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement with a £0 shortfall due, if she 
paid for any charges after the car was inspected. It also said it explained she could part 
exchange the car with a dealer. It said it could discuss a repayment plan if she went into 
arrears, but this would affect Ms Ws credit score.
Ms W called VWFS again later in March 2020. VWFS said she wanted to keep the car and 
asked for more details on reducing her repayments. Around this time Ms W got in touch with 
our service about the complaint.
Towards the end of March 2020 Ms W submitted a form to VWFS about financial difficulties 
during COVID-19. VWFS says it put a COVID marker on her account meaning no negative 
information was reported to credit references agencies in April, May or June 2020.
In April 2020 Ms W asked VWFS if she could pay £80 towards her agreement. She emailed 
VWFS and said she was unhappy with an email response she received and wanted 
guidance on what to do. She said she couldnt get through on the phone and wanted to 
discuss a repayment plan and breathing space for her finances. 
VWFS responded around a week later. It said their phone lines were open. It explained 
Ms W was in arrears from her April payment. It said it couldnt agree deferred payments and 
it didnt think a payment holiday was appropriate due to it impacting the agreement. It asked 
for some more details about Ms Ws finances and explained it was taking longer to respond 
than normal.
At the end of April 2020, VWFS emailed Ms W and said it was now offering payment 
deferrals and asked her to complete a form. Ms W submitted this a few days later. She also 
asked VWFS to call her to discuss this.
Later in May 2020 VWFS said it didnt think a payment deferral was suitable due to the 
arrears on the account. Ms W says she called VWFS on two days to discuss but couldnt get 
through. She asked them to call her. VWFS says it called Ms W to discuss this at the end of 
May but couldnt get through. It called again at the beginning of June but again she didnt 
pick up.
Ms W returned the calls but says she couldnt get through. She emailed and asked VWFS to 
call her at a specific time and day.
VWFS emailed a few days later and said it couldnt arrange a call back due to the volume of 
calls it was getting. It gave its opening hours and asked her to call back or explained it could 
help via email. Ms W responded and said she didnt think email was suitable to discuss 
things and asked VWFS to put her account on hold.
VWFS called Ms W at the start of July to discuss this and she told it she was busy and 
asked for a call back later.
In August 2020 VWFS emailed Ms W and said it was still investigating her complaint. It gave 
referral rights to our service. We began to investigate Ms Ws case.
In November 2020 VWFS issued its final response. It said, in summary, it had given Ms W 
the correct options and said it couldnt accept part payment on the agreement. It said it 
couldnt backdate a VT as Ms W had continued to use the car, so the arrears on the account 
were due. It reiterated her options were to VT the agreement, pay off the rentals and hand 
the car back, part exchange the car or settle the whole finance agreement. 
It also said it needed to record accurate information on Ms Ws credit file and the account 
would show in arrears as she had only been making part payments. It said the arrears 
currently stood at £2,111.60.
At the end of November 2020 Ms W spoke to VWFS and arranged to VT the agreement. 
This was confirmed and the car was picked up at the start of December 2020. VWFS said 
there were £2,111.60 arrears and after inspection said £86.40 was due for damage to the 
car.
In February 2021 the debt was passed on to a debt recovery agent. 
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he said he thought the options given to Ms W were in her best interests. He said 
as Ms W decided to keep the car he didnt think VWFS did anything wrong by recording 
information against her credit file when she didnt make full repayments.
VWFS accepted the investigators opinion. Ms W was unhappy with this. She made several 
points. She said she didnt decide to keep the car. She said, had she been able to speak to 
VWFS sooner, she wouldve been able to make an informed decision and she wouldve 
decided to hand the car back earlier and avoid arrears. And she says she never requested 
that a payment plan was put in place. 
Our investigator spoke to Ms W and explained what shed said didnt change his mind. Ms W 
remained unhappy, so the case was passed to me to decide.
I sent Ms W and VWFS a provisional decision on 22 September 2021. This explained that I 
didnt initially think the complaint should be upheld. My findings from this decision were as 
follows:Ms W complains about service received when she was in financial difficulty in relation to a 
hire purchase agreement. Providing and administering consumer credit contracts such as 
this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider her complaint against VWFS.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law,  
regulations and guidance. VWFS has various guidance it needs to follow when dealing with 
consumers in financial difficulty including what is set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) consumer credit sourcebook (CONC). CONC explains A firm must treat customers 
in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.
During the time Ms W was dealing with VWFS the FCA issued specific guidance to firms 
about dealing with customers during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, I wont comment 
much on this in my decision. This is because this guidance was to help businesses to 
provide support to customers who were experiencing short term financial difficulty due to 
COVID-19. Im satisfied this didnt apply to Ms W, as her difficulties stemmed from her 
unfortunately losing her job, which happened a significant time before the pandemic. 
Ms W says that if her options were made clear to her she wouldve decided to hand the car 
back earlier and wouldve avoided arrears. She says she needed to speak to VWFS to 
discuss this in order to make a decision. And she says she never asked for a payment plan 
and didnt decide to keep the car. So, Ive thought about whether she wouldve understood 
her options here and what she told VWFS that she wanted to do.
Our investigator explained he thought Ms W was given suitable options on the phone from 
the call notes VWFS provided from its system. I requested recordings of the calls Ms W had 
with VWFS in March 2020 to hear what she was told.
When Ms W initially called VWFS she explained she had been unemployed for around a 
year and an insurance policy had stopped paying out which meant she could no longer 
afford her monthly repayments. She explained to VWFS that she ideally wanted to keep her 
car and could pay around £85 a month towards the agreement. She explained she wanted to 
then make up the repayments once she had found a job. 
VWFS explained that she could either VT the agreement or visit a dealer to arrange a part 
exchange for a cheaper car. Thinking about what was said here, Im satisfied the staff 
member explained what VT meant. They told Ms W she would have to pay 50% of the total 
amount due under the agreement and then pay for any charges such as refurbishment 
costs. Later in the call the staff member checked Ms Ws account and explained she had 
already paid 50% of the total due and so could hand her car back at any point and would 
only be responsible for any additional charges.
During the call VT is discussed for some time and Ms W asks several questions about it. 
Thinking about this, Im satisfied Ms W wouldve understood what her options were and she 
wouldve understood what VT was. 
Ms W discussed what would happen if she went into arrears and if she paid a partial 
payment the following month, as she said she wanted to keep the car. VWFS explained 
during the call that it couldnt discuss a payment plan until Ms W had missed a payment. And 
it explained Ms Ws credit file would be affected if she went into arrears. The call ended with 
Ms W agreeing to discuss things with a dealer.
Ms W called VWFS back later in March 2020. She again explained that she wanted to keep 
the car and make partial payments to her agreement. She also said she was unhappy VWFS 
wont discuss a payment plan until she is in arrears.On this call a potential payment plan is discussed in more detail. The staff member 
explained in some detail that unless Ms W made her full repayment every month, her 
account would show in arrears on her credit file. It was explained that VWFS consider 
payment arrangements like that proposed by Ms W to only be suitable for short term 
financial difficulty. The staff member gave an example of a customer who couldnt pay for 
one month, then would make an arrangement to pay the arrears off over the following three 
months while also making their full repayment.
It was explained to Ms W on this call that there is no way she could reduce or change the 
repayments throughout the agreement, only on a one month basis. It was also explained that 
if she made partial payments for a number of months her account could be defaulted. The 
staff member then reiterated her options of VT or part exchanging the car for a cheaper 
model.
Ive carefully thought about these phone calls. I appreciate Ms W says she didnt decide to 
keep the car and didnt ask for a payment plan. But, Im satisfied she explains to VWFS that 
this is her preferred option and she said she would like to make a partial payment every 
month. Im satisfied VWFS explained this wasnt an option long term and that she would go 
into arrears if this happened. And, Im satisfied it was explained to Ms W what VT was and 
she understood she could hand the car back with only additional charges to pay if there was 
damage to the car.
I should also point out that having reviewed the emails and letters from VWFS its clear 
Ms Ws preferred option of making partial repayments every month and keeping the car was 
not offered nor agreed by VWFS. The options to VT or trade in the car were pointed out 
again. So, Ive considered if the options she was provided were suitable.
Ive thought about Ms Ws situation at the time. Im sorry to hear about her losing her 
employment and her difficulties finding another job.
I need to consider that Ms W explained to VWFS when she initially spoke to it that she had 
been unemployed at the time for around a year. So, I think in this case its fair to say she 
wasnt experiencing short term financial difficulties and VWFS needed to think about the 
broader picture here. I should point out here that I dont think VWFSs initial approach of 
saying it would only discuss a payment plan after a Ms W had gone into arrears was in her 
best interest. But, I do need to consider that it was then discussed for some time during the 
second call.
VWFS has explained that if it agreed to Ms Ws proposal of paying £85 a month she would 
be going into arrears of over £250 a month. Given Ms W had already been unemployed for a 
year at that point, I can see why it wouldnt offer this as an option. It doesnt seem to be in 
Ms Ws best interests to enter into an arrangement where arrears would continue to accrue 
every month  potentially to an unmanageable level. This is especially true when she had 
the option to hand the car back and walk away.
Given Ms W had repaid over 50% of the total due under her credit agreement and could 
hand the car back without a lump sum being due, it seems sensible to me that VWFS 
highlighted her right to VT along with the option of discussing trading the car in for a cheaper 
model. Thinking about everything here, I think VWFS discussed sensible options with Ms W 
to help with her situation.
Ms W has also been unhappy with the communication from VWFS. So, Ive considered what 
happened here.I should point out that during the time in question the UK was experiencing a pandemic due 
to COVID-19. This had a knock on effect to most businesses and Im satisfied its likely this 
affected VWFSs ability to provide its usual level of customer service.
I can see Ms W asked for a call back from VWFS at a specific date and time to discuss the 
situation and I know she is unhappy this wasnt arranged. VWFS said this wasnt possible 
due to issues caused by the pandemic. 
I can see VWFS attempted to contact Ms W on the phone on several occasions. I think, 
under normal circumstances, the best example of customer service wouldve been to 
arrange a call back on a time and date that suited her. But, I need to consider the impact of 
COVID-19 on WVFS ability to do this. I can see it responded to Ms Ws emails within a few 
days and explained she could call its phone lines, or it would be happy to help via email with 
any questions. 
I understand Ms W said shed tried to speak to VWFS on the phone from April to November 
2020 but couldnt. I appreciate she had difficulty getting through at some points. But, I 
havent seen enough to make me think it wouldnt have been possible for her to speak to 
VWFS sooner than she did. Given what was happening in the UK at the time and 
considering everything, I dont think VWFS needs to take any action here.
Ms W is unhappy with the information recorded on her credit file in relation to the account. 
Ive thought about this but having considered everything, I think this is correct.
VWFS said it added a covid marker to Ms Ws account when she contacted it initially, so 
arrears or late payments werent recorded in April, May and June 2020. After this date it 
recorded Ms Ws payments as late or missed. I appreciate Ms W said she made partial 
payments to the account. But, this wasnt agreed with VWFS so I dont think this should be 
recorded as an arrangement to pay. Im also satisfied VWFS were right to show the arrears 
on Ms Ws credit file.
Ive considered that Ms W says she shouldnt be responsible for the arrears on the account 
as she couldnt get through to VWFS. As Ive explained above, I havent seen enough to 
make me think its most likely this was the case. But, either way, as far as Im aware Ms W 
continued to use the car during this period. I think its reasonable, given this, that even if 
couldnt get through to VWFS she should remain responsible for the repayments on the 
agreement. So, it follows Im satisfied she should still be responsible for the arrears.
In summary, Ive thought very carefully about everything Ms W has said. I can appreciate 
she wanted to keep her car and make reduced payments  and Im satisfied she made it 
clear to VWFS that this was her preferred approach. But, I dont think this was a viable 
option given her circumstances and this wouldve most likely have led to further financial 
difficulty.
I think VWFS gave her alternative suitable options for helping with her situation. While Ms W 
said she needed to ask questions about these, Im satisfied it was initially made clear to her 
on the phone what these options were. I dont think, given the pandemic, it was 
unreasonable of VWFS to not be able to call Ms W on a specific time and date that she set. 
Im satisfied it did attempt to speak to her and it gave her the opportunity to ask questions 
about her options via email, which it appears she didnt do.
Taking everything into account, I dont think VWFS needs to take any further action here.
I gave both parties one month to provide any further evidence or comments for me to 
consider. VWFS said it accepted my provisional decision. Ms W sent in some further 
evidence and made some points for me to think about.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her response to my provisional decision Ms W reiterated some of her original points. 
Where Im happy things have already been explained and addressed in my provisional 
decision I wont repeat things here.
Ms W sent in some videos apparently showing her trying to call VWFS on three occasions in 
June 2020 and once in July 2020. One of these appears to show a dead phone line. On the 
other calls there is an automated message saying VWFS are receiving too many calls to 
answer at the moment and to call back if urgent. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I accept Ms W had issues getting through to 
VWFS at some points. And, under normal circumstances, I dont think this is the level of 
service she couldve expected. But, thinking about the wider picture here, and given the 
COVID-19 pandemic was ongoing at this point, I still dont think VWFS needs to do anything 
to put this right. And I also still dont think this shows Ms W couldnt have spoken to VWFS at 
some point between April and November 2020.
Ms W said VWFS shouldnt have sent her a default notice when we were investigating the 
complaint and shouldnt have recorded information on her credit file. She also says it told her 
at one point the arrears were lower than they ended up. But, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think Ms W is responsible for the arrears on the account. So, I dont think VWFS 
needs to do anything here.
Ms W has also complained about actions taken by the debt recovery agent. She will need to 
speak to this company directly if she is unhappy with it.
Finally, I want to reassure Ms W that Ive carefully considered everything else she said in 
response to my provisional decision. And, Ive thought again about all of the other 
information on this complaint. Having done so, I still think this complaint should not be 
upheld. This is for the same reasons as I explained in my provisional decision and set out 
above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman