DRN-3536293
The complaint
In summary, Mrs F has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard), 
irresponsibly provided her with two credit cards. And she thinks she should be awarded 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she suffered. 
What happened
Mrs F took out credit cards with Barclays in 2012 and 2014. In 2021 she complained to 
Barclays that she shouldnt have been provided with the credit or credit limit increases. 
In its response to Mrs Fs complaint, Barclays explained why it wasnt upholding her 
complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Fs concerns. He explained to Barclays why he was 
upholding Mrs Fs complaint. 
Barclays agreed to pay Mrs F compensation in respect of the credit cards. Mrs F accepted 
the offer and the case was closed. 
Mrs F subsequently contacted the investigator. She was concerned that she hadnt heard 
from Barclays. She was also concerned as to whether Barclays had carried out the 
calculation of compensation correctly. The case was reopened, and the investigator wrote to 
Mrs F again. Mrs F wasnt satisfied with the explanation the investigator provided, so the 
case was passed to me to review.  
Having reviewed the complaint, I wrote to Mrs F explaining why I didnt think Barclays 
needed to do anything more, and why I was satisfied the calculation had been carried out 
correctly. Mrs F explained why she thought an award for distress and inconvenience was 
warranted. I then wrote to Mrs F further explaining why I didnt agree. No further response 
was received from Mrs F by the deadline I set. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
One of our investigators issued a view upholding the complaint in January 2022. Barclays 
subsequently agreed to make an offer of settlement which was accepted by Mrs F. 
My understanding of events is that Mrs F subsequently had concerns that she hadnt been 
awarded any compensation for the distress and inconvenience she had incurred, because of 
the lending provided to her. She was also concerned that Barclays hadnt kept her informed 
following her acceptance of its offer. And primarily, she was worried about how she could be 
satisfied Barclays had carried out the calculation correctly.
I do understand the point Mrs F made about being satisfied the calculation was correct. 
When the ombudsman service upholds a complaint and awards redress, we expect a 
business to calculate and implement redress using the methodology that we set out in our 
assessments. When we use a methodology rather than making a monetary award, we are 
setting out the principles as to how redress should be calculated. And that is what 
complainants such as Mrs F are agreeing to when an assessment is accepted.
The issue Mrs F has complained about is unfortunately one that the ombudsman service has 
seen many complaints about. And the methodology the investigator told Barclays to use to 
calculate redress, follows our long-established approach to calculating redress in these 
types of cases. And Barclays will have had considerable experience in carrying out these 
calculations. So, Ive no reason to think that it will not have carried out the calculation using 
the methodology the investigator set out. 
When Mrs F accepted the investigators assessment after Barclays agreed to pay 
compensation in line with his assessment, that in essence brought the case to a close. The 
only outstanding issue was the calculation and payment of redress. 
The investigator made it clear in his assessment in my opinion, that he wasnt making any 
award for distress and inconvenience, although he recorded in his complaint summary that 
Mrs F had asked for this to be awarded. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs F said in response to my initial letter to her. The 
investigator could have made an award for distress and inconvenience, but he didnt. So, Im 
satisfied that when Mrs F accepted the offer, it was on the understanding that no 
compensation for distress and inconvenience had been awarded. 
Even if I did think it was appropriate to make an award for distress and inconvenience, I 
dont think it would necessarily be appropriate to do so in this case. This is because as 
explained by the investigator, Mrs F had other borrowing that impacted her financial position. 
And Im not persuaded from the information I have, that the specific lending and actions by 
Barclays impacted her to the extent that a financial award for distress and inconvenience is 
warranted. 
On the understanding that the matter had been settled along the lines proposed by the 
investigator, Barclays calculated and paid redress. I do understand that Mrs F isnt happy 
with the lack of communication from Barclays in respect of the payment of the 
compensation, but difficulties in implementing agreed redress isnt something that 
compensation for distress and inconvenience can be awarded for; because that it isnt a 
regulated activity that I can consider. So, I dont have the authority to award compensation in 
respect of that issue. I dont think therefore, that Barclays needs to pay any more 
compensation.
The ombudsman service is an informal service and we dont have the resources to carry out 
or check redress calculations. Loss calculations arent necessary for our service to fairly 
decide cases. As Ive said above, I would expect Barclays to carry out calculations in line 
with the methodology set out in the assessment.
I do understand Mrs Fs concerns regarding whether the compensation has been correctly 
calculated. And Ive explained above why I think its unlikely that the calculation has been 
carried out incorrectly. 
I think Barclays should however have provided details of its calculations. And I asked the 
investigator to obtain those from it. Those have been sent to Mrs F. To try and give her some reassurance, Ive considered those calculations to see if Barclays has applied the 
methodology correctly.
In the first instance Ive looked at a number of data points to see if the correct data has been 
used. For example, in relation to card ending 006, I can see that the although interest and 
fees should be refunded from March 2014 onwards, the calculation shows interest refunded 
from November 2016 onwards. An examination of the statements for that account shows 
that due to a promotional offer on the card, interest didnt start to accrue until November 
2016 onwards. The statement for August 2017 shows interest of £93.45. This figure is 
correctly reflected on the loss calculation sheet. So, Im satisfied that this is correct.
In respect of card ending 003, the calculation records the balances over and above the credit 
limit of £6,300 that shouldnt have been provided. And again, looking at the statements, no 
interest was applied to the account until July 2017. The correct total interest of £1.80 shown 
on the statement for July is recorded on the calculation. And the calculation shows the 
interest to be refunded over and above the agreed credit limit. Again, on the October 2018 
statement, the correct interest is shown on the calculation, which also records the balance 
over and above the credit limit of £6,300 and the interest to be refunded.
Barclays has also explained how the calculation has been carried out. In respect of card 
ending 7003, the calculation shows a compilation of statement data, specifically the 
balance and interest charges. It inputted the last affordable credit limit, which was 
£6,300.00, and its internal calculator worked out the difference between the statement 
balance (A) and the affordable limit (B). It then divided the interest charged on the 
statement by the statement balance. B and A are then multiplied to arrive at the amount of 
interest charged on any balances on and over the approved limit.
In months when the statement balance is below the affordable limit, no interest is 
refunded. If the statement balance exceeds the affordable limit the internal calculator 
works out how much of the interest was charged above the affordable limit and adds this 
amount to the refund total.
As an example, In January 2020, the statement balance was £10,214.41. This is 
£3,914.41 over the approved limit of £6,300.00. The interest charged on the whole amount 
of £10,214.41 was £104.24. The amount of interest charged over £6,300.00 or on the 
£3,914.41, amounts to £39.95. 
£39.95 is calculated by multiplying the figure obtained as a result of dividing the total 
monthly interest, by the statement balance; by the amount of the balance over £6,300.  
So, for the month of January 2020, the calculation would be £104.24 divided by 
£10,214.41 = 0.102. This is then multiplied by £3,914.41 which gives a rounded-up figure 
of £39.95.  This is the refund on the statement balance above £6,300 for that month.
Barclays has confirmed that the refunds have been applied to the outstanding balance on 
the accounts, which is in line with our approach and what the investigator said should 
happen. And having worked through the example calculations provided by Barclays, I am 
satisfied that the calculations have been carried out correctly.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above I think that the compensation that has been refunded 
to Mrs Fs accounts is fair.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to settle the complaint and paid the 
calculated compensation into Mrs Fs credit card accounts. I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances. So as Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid the 
compensation into Mrs Fs credit card accounts, it doesnt need to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman