The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Yorkshire Building Society dealt with her request to transfer her 
ISA.
What happened
Mrs S wanted to transfer her ISA from a bank that Ill refer to as S in this decision to 
Yorkshire Building Society, hereafter called YBS. So she completed an ISA transfer 
instruction form and handed it to her YBS branch. Mrs S said a family member also 
completed an ISA transfer instruction form to transfer their ISA to YBS at the same time.
Mrs S said her family members ISA transfer request was completed successfully. However, 
hers wasnt. And, when Mrs S asked YBS to clarify why her ISA hadnt been transferred in 
accordance with her instructions, she said it initially told her it was due to an incorrect 
address being recorded for S on the ISA transfer instruction form. 
After Mrs S disputed that shed incorrectly recorded S address on the ISA transfer 
instruction form YBS told her that her ISA transfer request had been rejected by S because 
her National Insurance number (NINO) had been recorded on the form in the reference 
number field in error. And it said, as this field was used to identify customer accounts, S 
wouldnt have been able to locate an account for Mrs S using the details that were entered. 
Mrs S told YBS she hadnt written her NINO in the wrong place. She thought that had been 
done on her behalf by YBS in branch. Mrs S completed a second ISA transfer instruction 
form following which her funds were transferred from S to YBS. But she received two letters 
from YBS, which contained conflicting information about whether her transfer had been 
successful. So, she complained.
When YBS investigated Mrs S complaint it told her it wasnt responsible for the unsuccessful 
ISA transfer request. But it did accept that, in providing incorrect information to her, the 
service she had received had fallen short of the usual standard it would expect to deliver. 
So, it paid Mrs S £55 to recognise the trouble and upset this had caused and to compensate 
her for her time and any expenses shed incurred in discussing, and raising, her concerns.
Being dissatisfied with YBS response to her complaint Mrs S referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened and, while they empathised with Mrs S, they 
werent persuaded YBS was responsible for the failure of her initial ISA transfer request. 
They also thought the compensation YBS had paid for providing incorrect information to Mrs 
S was appropriate and fair. But Mrs S disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1488886reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mrs S and YBS that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs S experienced here with her initial ISA transfer 
request. She believes YBS is responsible for her unsuccessful ISA transfer instruction. But 
YBS disputes that. So, Ive assessed whether I think YBS made a mistake, or treated Mrs S 
unfairly in how its dealt with her initial ISA transfer request, such that it needs to now put 
things right.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Mrs S transfer was unsuccessful due to 
her NINO being recorded in the wrong place on the ISA transfer instruction form. Instead of 
being written where the form requests this information it was written in the reference/roll 
number section of the form. I accept YBS explanation that this caused the ISA transfer to 
fail.
Mrs S told our service she didnt record her NINO on the form in this way. She says YBS did 
that. But YBS disputes this. Looking at the ISA transfer form, Im afraid to say that I think its 
most likely Mrs S recorded her NINO in the wrong place on the form. I say this because Im 
persuaded its written in handwriting that matches the writing I can see on the remainder of 
the form. And Im satisfied Mrs S completed the form in question. I also think it was her 
responsibility to check the form had been completed correctly before signing it and handing it 
in at her branch.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im not persuaded YBS was responsible for 
recording Mrs S NINO incorrectly in the reference number section of the ISA transfer 
instruction form. It follows that I cant fairly ask it to backdate the interest Mrs S would have 
accrued had her ISA been opened earlier. 
I can see once YBS was made aware that Mrs S' ISA transfer request hadnt been 
successful it acted proactively in providing her with a new ISA transfer instruction form. Once 
it received her completed second transfer instruction form her ISA funds were transferred 
from S to YBS within around two days. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied YBS took the 
action Id expect it to on being made aware that Mrs S initial ISA transfer had failed.
YBS has already accepted it provided incorrect information to Mrs S about why her transfer 
was unsuccessful. Its also admitted it sent her letters containing conflicting information 
about whether her ISA funds had been transferred to YBS. 
I can see that YBS has already apologised and compensated her £55 to recognise its errors. 
But its clear Mrs S doesnt think this sum adequately reflects her inconvenience and 
experience. So, Ive carefully assessed whether YBS acted fairly and reasonably in offering 
to put things right. 
We arent here to punish businesses. And, to put things right, Id have asked YBS to 
apologise for providing incorrect information, which its already done, and to make an 
appropriate award of compensation to reflect the trouble and upset Mrs S was caused. 
When our service awards compensation we look at the overall impact on the people 
involved. We dont award money for each individual error.I dont doubt that Mrs S was spent some time in trying to resolve her concerns with YBS and 
incurred out of pocket expenses in doing so due to, for example, telephone calls. But, Im 
afraid I have to tell her that I agree with the investigators view that the compensation already 
paid by YBS is an appropriate amount of compensation that fairly reflects the trouble and 
upset she would have been caused by its error. Its in line with what I would have suggested 
had no offer been made. So, I wont be requiring YBS to increase the amount its already 
paid here.
I appreciate that Mrs S feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything shes said. But I think YBS has dealt with this complaint fairly 
and done all it can to resolve this dispute. Im satisfied that the £55 its already paid is fair to 
compensate Mrs S for the worry and trouble she was caused here. So, Im not going to ask it 
to do anymore here.
I realise Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying, to resolve her dispute with YBS informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs 
S further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman