DRN-3793611
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that The Energy Saving Trust Limited (EST) rejected his loan application 
solely on the basis of his credit score. He says the importance of the credit score was not 
made clear to him when he applied.
What happened
Mr G applied for a home energy loan on 22 October 2021, he was declined on 23 November 
2021. He says he had to chase twice for an update and when he challenged the decision, 
explaining he had recently bought a property and this had impacted his score, his appeal 
was rejected. When he complained he says EST were late to respond and did not address 
his complaint in full.
Mr G says ESTs slow response to his application meant he was left living in a construction 
site, causing inconvenience, and that he had to refurbish his property in a different order to 
planned incurring incremental cost.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said there was no evidence EST had 
acted unreasonably when it declined Mr Gs application. Lending checks have to be 
proportionate to the individual circumstances of each case, but the regulator does not set out 
precisely which checks must be done. She felt EST had acted fairly when it carried out its 
checks, and it had said upfront credit scoring maybe used to assess applications. She said 
the application process, deducting the days when EST was waiting for information from      
Mr G, was two days longer than the target timeline. This was not unreasonable. She also 
explained that as complaint handling is not a regulated activity we could not look into that 
aspect of Mr Gs complaint.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr G asked for an ombudsmans review. He said what hed 
wanted was for EST to complete a more thorough creditworthiness check  looking at things 
like payslips and bank statements. He thinks using credit score alone is not reasonable or 
proportionate. He says as EST asked for more details for his application he was misled and 
believed he had passed the checks. So he planned his house refurbishment based on 
receiving the loan. He asked for further confirmation that we do not handle complaints about 
complaint handling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The application process
Mr G is unhappy with both the information provided and the time taken. But the product 
literature made clear he would have to pass a credit and affordability check, and that EST 
may use credit scoring methods. 
Similarly, the terms of the scheme set out that the aim was to process applications within 10 
workings days, but that there may be delays if anything needed to be clarified (as it was 
here). Taking this into account and looking solely at the lapsed time within ESTs control,   
Mr Gs application was two days later than the target. EST has explained that high demand 
and home-working due to the pandemic created challenges that it has since worked to 
address. I do not find this timeframe to be unreasonable.
Mr G says he has incurred extra refurbishment costs as he understood his application had 
been successful and so planned accordingly. But the scheme documentation clearly says 
works cannot commence until a formal loan offer has been received. So I cannot fairly hold 
EST liable for any increase in Mr Gs costs.
The lending decision
Mr G says EST should have carried out a more detailed assessment of his creditworthiness 
and he is concerned about how the scheme has been set up. But its not in our remit to 
review a lenders policies  that it the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.  
And we would not prescribe the checks a lender should do. Nor would we expect a lender to 
allow a consumer to define the checks for their application.
What I can do is look at the available evidence to check that Mr G was treated fairly at 
application  so in the same way as all other applicants, and with no mistakes in his 
assessment. The regulatory requirements, set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook, 
mean checks have to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan 
application. In general, what makes up a proportionate assessment will be dependent upon 
a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for. There is no set list of checks. 
ESTs checks did not solely focus on Mr Gs credit score, it completed both an affordability 
and a creditworthiness check. I find this to be proportionate. It asked for details of Mr Gs 
monthly income and expenditure and he passed the affordability check. It checked his credit 
score at one of the credit reference agencies. His score was under its pass mark - the 
threshold for this is a commercial decision and not something we would interfere in. When 
Mr G appealed against his declined application EST used a different agency but again his 
score was not high enough. Mr G argues his score was higher before he took out a 
mortgage for the property, but I would not expect EST to make its decision based on historic 
data. It needed to assess his circumstances at the time he applied. So I cannot see any 
evidence Mr G was treated unfairly or unreasonably during the lending assessment.
Finally, there is a difference between a complaint about a financial service and a complaint 
about how a firm has handled a complaint. I can only look at the former. Mr Gs concerns 
about ESTs response (or lack of) to his complaint is not a complaint about ESTs provision 
of or failure to provide a financial service  its distinctly about complaint handling.  And 
under our rules I cannot consider complaint handling.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman