DRN-3686046
The complaint
Mr C complains that Embark Investment Services Limited (Embark) provided incorrect fund
details to his new his individual savings account (ISA) provider. This meant one of his funds
was converted to cash rather than being transferred in-specie to the new provider. Mr C says 
this caused significant delays and created a financial loss.
What happened
Mr C asked his new ISA provider to transfer his existing ISA holdings from Embark on 7 
October 2020. Mr C intended to transfer in-specie but Embark provided an incorrect 
International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) for one of the funds. The new provider 
told Embark they couldnt complete an in-specie transfer for the fund and it must be 
transferred as cash. Embark converted the specific fund to cash on 18 November and sent it 
to the new provider on 30 March 2021. Mr C began to re-invest the funds on 1 April and 
continued to do so throughout April and May. The remaining in-specie transfer also 
completed in April.
Mr C complained to Embark theyd used the incorrect ISIN and this had caused him
a financial loss because his fund was unnecessarily converted to cash and sent to the new 
provider. Mr C also complained the transfer process took much longer than it should have, 
and he missed out on a rising market. In their final response Embark agreed theyd made 
some mistakes and offered Mr C £3,825.07 to compensate him for not having access his 
cash and £200 for the upset caused. Mr C didnt accept this offer.
After Mr C brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Embark reviewed
their position and offered Mr C £6,241.73, along with £200 for the upset, and a refund of
platform fees totalling £137.91. Mr C declined this offer.
One of our Investigators looked into things for Mr C. The Investigator thought Embark should 
pay Mr C the sum of £6,241.73. And that interest at 8% per annum simple should be added 
to this amount from 5 March 2021 until the date of settlement as Mr C had been deprived of 
this amount. Our investigator thought Embark should calculate whether Mr C was in a worse 
position on each of the subsequent investments hed made if theyd been made on 5 March 
2021, when the funds should reasonably have been available. And if Mr C was in a worse 
position, Embark should pay him the difference plus 8% simple interest until the date of 
settlement.
Mr C accepted the thoughts of our Investigator but Embark didnt. The case was sent to
me to decide, but as I reached a significantly different conclusion to the Investigator, I issued 
a provisional decision on 30 June 2022 asking both parties for their comments.
The comments Mr C provided lead me to reconsider part of the remedy within my first 
provisional decision. I therefore decided to issue a second provisional decision and ask for 
additional comments by 5 September 2022. In my second provisional decision dated 19 
August 2022, I said I intended asking Embark to pay an amount for the delay in transferring 
the ISA funds, and to pay further redress because Mr C has been deprived of the opportunity 
to invest this amount since 30 March 2021. The further redress to be linked to the 
performance of a similar fund to the ceding fund.
In his response to my second provisional decision Mr C said any redress for the lost 
opportunity should be based on the performance of the ceding fund. Mr C said he didnt 
reinvest in the ceding fund because Embark told him the fund in question wasnt supported 
by the new provider. Ive carefully considered Mr Cs comments, but he hasnt persuaded me 
to change my decision. In my provisional decisions I explained Mr C quickly re-invested the 
cash transferred by Embark on his new providers platform. I consider Mr C had the option to 
check whether the ceding fund was on the platform, but I cant say either way whether he did 
this or not. So, because Mr C opted to invest the transfer cash into a number of different 
funds shortly after the transfer took place, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to 
speculate he would have invested the redress into the ceding fund. Instead, I took a 
balanced approach and used an index fund in which the mix and diversification provided is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr C's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
In their response to my second provisional decision, Embark accepted they should pay Mr C 
an amount for the delay in transferring the ISA. And they agreed to calculate the difference 
between the value in November 2020 and the value of this same fund on 30 March 2021. 
Embark say they shouldnt pay Mr C for the lost opportunity to invest. They say that if the 
original error hadnt occurred the ceding fund would never have been sold, and Mr C would 
have remained invested within the ceding fund. Embark add Mr C made an informed 
decision to purchase different funds between 1 April 2021 and 6 May 2021, and he wouldve 
needed to encash part or all this investment which may or may not have resulted in a loss or 
a gain.
Ive thought about the comments from Embark, but unfortunately the error did occur. And Im 
satisfied Mr C did lose the opportunity to invest the difference in the ISA transfer value 
between 5 March and 30 March 2021, and any further investment performance since 30 
March 2021. It was their error that resulted in Mr C being deprived of the redress and the 
opportunity for this to be invested. And, although I cant be sure what specific funds Mr C 
would have invested in, Im satisfied he would have invested it.  
Ive therefore decided to adopt my provisional decision dated 19 August 2022 as my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The impact of the delay between 5 March and 30 March 2021
Embark accept they provided an incorrect ISIN to the new provider and that if theyd 
provided the correct ISIN the fund couldve been transferred in-specie. Instead it was 
converted to cash on 18 November 2020. Embark held this until 30 March 2021 before 
sending it to the new provider when the other fund Mr C held was ready to transfer in-specie. 
Its reasonable for me to use 30 March 2021 as the date when Mr Cs in-specie transfer 
shouldve completed if Embark had provided the correct ISIN. 
Ive reviewed the approach Embark took in their final repsonse letter to Mr C. In this letter, 
Embark calculated the interest Mr C should receive on the cash value of the ceding fund 
from 18 November until 30 March 2021. I consider this supports Embark accept Mr C had 
been deprived of investing these funds. Had Embark not made the error, the transfer wouldve completed in-specie on 30 March 2021. If this had been the case, Mr C wouldve 
particpated in the performance of ceding fund until 30 March 2021. 
Embark should calculate the value of the ceding fund on 30 March 2021 and pay the 
difference, if any, between the value of the fund on this date and the £135,285.95 they sent 
to the new provider. Embark should then pay this amount, which I will refer to as the the 
redress into Mr Cs ISA account with the new provider. I consider this is a fair and 
reasonable remedy as it puts Mr C back in the position he wouldve been in if the in-specie 
transfer had completed on 30 March 2021.
The cash transfer calculation
Had Embark provided the correct ISIN the fund wouldve been transferred in-specie. Instead, 
Embark sold the units in the fund on 18 November 2020 and held the proceeds of 
£135,285.95 in cash until 30 March 2021 when they sent the funds to the new provider. 
Theres no dispute Mr Cs initial intention was to retain the ceding fund in his ISA. However, 
when Embark sent the cash transfer to his new provider Mr C didnt re-invest into the ceding 
fund. Instead he invested in a number of other funds. Im persuaded the investment 
decisions Mr C took after the funds arrived in his account on 30 March 2021 are supportive 
that he was was willing to accept some investment risk with the cash transfer funds. 
As Ive decided Embark should pay the redress referred to above, I also have to consider if 
there is any further redress to be paid because Mr C has been deprived of the opportunuty 
to invest the redress since 30 March 2021. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider my aim should be to put Mr C 
as close to the position he would likely now be in if the redress had been available for re-
investment from 30 March 2021.
Mr C started to re-invest the cash transfer from 1 April 2021. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he wouldve done, but Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested. I acknowledge Mr C feels I should 
link the redress to the performance of the ceding fund, but I dont agree. Mr C couldve re-
invested back into the ceding fund. Instead he chose to invest in several other funds, without 
confirming with his new provider the ceding fund was available on their platform. I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to link any further remedy to the ceding fund as I consider thats too 
speculative. So, Ive decided to take a balanced approach to this part of the remedy and 
deided I should ask Embark to compare an index fund in which the mix and diversification 
provided is close enough to allow a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr C's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
Embark dont feel Mr C has been deprived of the funds, and interest on the shortfall 
shouldnt be payable as Mr C wouldnt have earned interest on this amount. Ive already 
accepted its unlikely Mr C wouldve left his funds in cash. But had Embark provided the 
correct ISIN, I think its more likely than not Mr C wouldve invested in the same or similar 
funds to the ceding fund. In this case Mr C chose to invest in similar funds and, in my 
opinion, Mr C has been deprived of investing the redress amount in similar funds for some 
time. To rectify this Embark should pay additional redresss based on Mr Cs exposure to 
similar funds, rather than a simple interest remedy, or indeed any link to the ceding fund 
beacsue he wasnt invested in this fund after 30 March 2021. I satisfied this is a fairer way 
of calculating the likely cost of Mr C being deprived of this amount.What should Embark do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Embark must:
Pay the difference between the redress and the fair value of the investment into the 
new ISA Mr C holds.
Embark should also pay interest as set out below.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameBenchmark From (start date) To (end date) Additional interest
8% simple per
year from final
the redressFTSE UK
Private Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index30 March 2021Date of my final 
decisiondecision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business receiving
the complainant's
acceptance) *
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced 
a return using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared 
to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although its called income index, the mix and diversification provided within 
the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr C's circumstances and risk attitude.
It takes into account Mr C has been deprived of the redress for a time and, 
based on what Mr C did with his existing funds over the same period, its a fair 
redress.
Tax considerations
Although its my intention to ask Embark to pay the above redress into Mr Cs new ISA, 
if this isnt possible its important for me to consider Mr C lost the amount of the redress from his ISA allowance. If the redress cannot be paid into Mr Cs new ISA Ive 
considered whether he will incur any additional tax burden. We generally think its fair 
to assume that:
Any charges on holding the investment outside the ISA will not be 
significantly different from those that would have applied if it had been held 
within an ISA as intended.
Mr C is a higher rate taxpayer.
Mr Cs tax position will remain unchanged for as long as he holds the investment.
The tax position of the investment will remain unchanged while Mr C holds it.
If the investment pays dividend distributions, it will return 7.5% each year (made up 
of 5% growth and 2.5% dividend).
If the investment pays interest distributions, it will return 6% each year (made 
up of 1% growth and 5% interest).
If the investment doesnt pay either interest or dividends (e.g. growth stocks), 
it will grow at 7.5% each year.
Mr C says hes invested into ISAs for a number of years. He says he intends to do so for a 
further 10 years, and that he has the resources to do so. Ive seen Mr C used his 2021/22 
ISA allowance and that he has built up a sizable ISA portfolio. Taking this into account 
Embark should assume the investment be held for 10 years before its sold if they cant pay 
the remedy into Mr Cs existing ISA portfolio.
Theres more information about how to resolve ISA complaints on our website here 
- https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/complaints-
deal/investments/isa
Embark should work out what tax losses Mr C would suffer as a result of the delays 
using the above assumptions. This loss should then be paid to him.
Finally, the delays in this case have gone on for many months, and Mr C has 
experienced substantial inconvenience due to the delays. Mr C also paid platform and 
adviser fees to Embark. I think the offer from Embark to refund £137.91 in platform fees 
and to pay Mr C £300 to make up for the general delays he experienced in transferring 
his ISA is a fair and reasonable one.
My final decision
Ive decided that Embark Investment Services Limited should:
Calculate the value of the ceding fund on 30 March 2021 and pay the difference, if 
any, between the value of the fund on this date and the £135,285.95 they sent to the 
new provider. This amount, which I referred to as the the redress, should be paid 
into Mr Cs ISA account with the new provider. 
Pay the difference between the redress and the fair value of the investment into the 
new ISA Mr C holds, as detailed in the table above. This amount should be paid into Mr Cs ISA account with the new provider.
If the above amounts cannot be paid into Mr Cs ISA account, calculate what tax 
losses Mr C would suffer as a result of the delays using the above assumptions. This 
loss should then be paid to Mr C.
Pay Mr C a refund of fees of £137.91 and £300 for the general delays he 
experienced..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman