DRN-2710078
The complaint
Mr A says ReAssure Limited, trading as Guardian Royal Exchange, was responsible for 
establishing new pension policies when he shouldve been advised to make additional 
contributions to an existing plan. He says this has resulted in unnecessary costs, reducing 
his returns.
Mr A is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
Mr A purchased a Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) - also known as Section 226 
retirement annuity - from Guardian Royal Exchange in June 1988. Mr As policy reference 
ended ***7237. RACs were privately arranged pension policies taken out before 1 July 1988 
by anyone who was self-employed (like Mr A) or not a member of an occupational pension 
scheme.
In March 1989, Mr A says he took out another contract with Guardian Royal Exchange, with 
a policy reference ***9242.
In January 2020, after reviewing Mr As retirement arrangements, FR considered that 
ReAssure had unnecessarily set up multiple pension policies instead of recommending 
increased contributions to an existing policy. This meant Mr A had incurred higher charges 
and reduced returns on his pension provision. A complaint was raised.
ReAssure responded to Mr A in February 2020. It disputed our jurisdiction to consider his 
case because it thought hed brought it too late. It also said the sale of both Guardian Royal 
Exchange policies was non-advised. And that what had happened over three decades ago 
was compliant with the regulations at the time. It later confirmed that the second policy was 
effectively a top-up to his original plan.
The Investigator concluded we could consider Mr As case. But he didnt uphold his 
complaint. He noted the lack of information available, which was unsurprising given the 
significant passage of time. He didnt think ReAssure had provided advice and he couldnt 
find that Mr A had suffered disadvantage from what had happened.
FR disagreed with the Investigator, it said:
[Mr A] does not accept what you have said.
There is no reasonable doubt that the additional policies were unnecessary and subjected 
[Mr A] to unnecessary charges. What's more, they were sold to [Mr A]. The accepted 
definition of "execution-only" is where a client specifies exactly what product and fund(s) 
they require and asks the advice firm simply to execute the transaction. That is not what 
happened in [Mr A's] case.
So, Mr As complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Can this Service consider Mr As complaint?
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the FCA the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The FCA 
has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the FCA Handbook (also known as 
DISP or the DISP rules).
If a business doesnt consent, this Service cant consider a complaint which isnt made within 
specified time limits. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
Ive reviewed the position on our jurisdiction to consider Mr As complaint. I agree with the 
broad findings and conclusion of the Investigator. His case clearly fails the six-year test. But 
Ive seen no evidence that he was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause 
for his complaint - about the costs he thought were associated with establishing his second 
policy - more than 3 years prior to when he complained to ReAssure.
Im satisfied Mr As case is in time and this Service can consider it. Ill now turn to the merits 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know  
perhaps inevitably given the events complained about happened over 30 years ago - my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial 
businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Ive arrived at similar conclusions as the Investigator and 
for broadly the same reasons.
ReAssure has provided documentation from the sale of Mr As pension policies in 1988 and 
1989. While theres conflicting testimony about what happened over 30 years ago, I place 
weight on contemporaneous evidence.
Both sets of paperwork include declarations saying:I confirm that I have been asked to provide information for completion of a fact find by the 
company representative named below and that I do not wish to divulge the information 
requested. I wish my applications to proceed on an execution only basis.
The company representative has explained to me the principle of Best Advice and the 
reasons for requesting such information.
Mr A signed the declarations on 21 June 1988 and 3 March 1989 respectively. He declined 
advice. I think he wouldve understood the forms he endorsed. On the other hand, FR hasnt 
provided any equivalent evidence showing he was provided with an advice service or 
required such.
ReAssure provided the Investigator with an explanation from its product governance 
department confirming the policy Mr A bought in 1989 was a top up to the original pension 
contract he took out in 1988. Although a new policy number was established, it was in effect 
a top up to the original policy equivalent to increasing his contributions.
While FR asserts that the second plan set up for Mr A was unnecessary, it has failed to 
provide telling evidence in support of its case. Without such and given the explanation from 
ReAssure that he hasnt suffered any disadvantage from what happened in 1989 when he 
decided to make additional contributions to his pension provision, I think its more likely than 
not Mr A hasnt suffered financial detriment.
It follows that I dont require ReAssure Limited to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman