DRN-2966223
The complaint
 Mr H complains that his claim for stolen headphones and action camera made under a 
gadget insurance policy from Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) has been 
unfairly declined. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mr H took out a gadget insurance policy with Assurant. This provided 
loss, theft and accidental damage cover for a smart watch and an action camera. He also 
had theft and accidental damage cover for his headphones. 
In October 2020, the action camera and the headphones were stolen from Mr Hs car. He 
reported the theft to the police and made a claim to Assurant.
Mr H told Assurant that the headphones had been placed in the door compartment and the 
action camera in the glove box. He said thered been no forced entry to his car. But that hed 
found the passenger door slightly ajar. 
Assurant asked Mr H to provide Proof of Ownership for his devices and to complete a claim 
form. Mr H did what was asked. The process took a few weeks as Assurant said they didnt 
initially receive the required documentation for the headphones. 
In late November 2020 Assurant called Mr H. He told them the circumstances of the theft. 
He explained that his car had been parked outside his house overnight. But that in the 
morning he noticed that the passenger door was ajar. He then noticed that the glovebox was 
open. And some change was missing. And the paperwork in his glovebox had been handled. 
But Mr H didnt initially notice that anything else was missing. But later that day he realised 
that his headphones were missing. Mr H had last put them in the drivers door compartment 
in his car. 
He also realised that his action camera was missing. He said this had been kept in the 
glovebox in his car. Mr H said that his partner had a similar incident on the same road two or 
three months earlier. And noted that the police had said there was a gang going around 
bouncing key signals. 
Assurant declined the claim for not taking reasonable care. They said the headphones 
werent securely placed out of sight. So they felt it was reasonable to believe that this mayve 
enticed the thief to access the car. They also told Mr H that the insurance policy would be 
cancelled. Mr H disagreed with the claim outcome and complained.
When Assurant reviewed Mr Hs complaint, they asked him to provide photos showing where 
the headphones had been kept in his car. He provided photographic evidence that he felt 
showed that the headphones couldnt be seen from outside the car. 
Assurant reviewed the photos but maintained their decision to decline the claim. They said 
there was no evidence to support that the car had been locked. Or that the car had been 
hacked into. But they said that if Mr H could provide evidence that his car key had been 
hacked then we would review this further.
Mr H complained again. He said that his car had been left locked. And that the passenger 
door had been left open by the thief. He said that Assurant had now changed their reason for 
declining his claim from the headphones were left in view to the car was left unlocked. He 
said that the police had told him thered been a number of crimes in his area where devices 
were used that could relay the signal from the key in the victims house to open the car 
remotely. So he felt this had happened to him.
Assurant said that their claim decision was based on the devices being left in a position of 
risk. They said that they had no evidence that Mr Hs car had been broken into. So they felt 
this suggested the car hadnt been locked.
Mr H was unhappy with this response. So he brought the complaint to this service.
In early February 2021, the police whod dealt with Mr Hs theft contacted Assurant. They 
said that although they couldnt confirm whether or not Mr Hs car had been left insecure 
before the theft, they could state that theyd taken reports of a number of like offences which 
have occurred, in which there has been no sign of any damage or forced entry to the 
vehicles involved. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that she couldnt confidently say that 
Mr Hs headphones had been out of sight. So she didnt think Assurant had done anything 
wrong.
Mr H didnt agree. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 July 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint. The reason I disagree with our investigator 
is that Im satisfied that Mr Hs photos do show that his headphones werent visible from 
outside the car. So I dont consider that when he left them in his door well he enticed the 
thieves to his car.
Ill explain my decision in more detail.
When refusing the claim, Assurant have referred to the policy terms and conditions, 
specifically the exclusions relating to taking care of gadgets and knowingly taking a risk with 
them. So what I need to decide is whether Assurant have fairly and reasonably applied those 
terms to the claim made by Mr H. 
The policy states that taking care of your gadget includes the following:
Not knowingly leaving your gadget somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or purse there? 
If you need to leave your gadget somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out 
of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with 
someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place. 
The policy also states:If you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere you cant see it but others can, we may 
decline your claim for not taking care of your gadget  for example: 
leaving your gadget on display in your car. 
Mr H has provided photographic evidence that the headphones werent knowingly left where 
others could see them and he could not. So Im persuaded that he met that particular 
requirement within the policy terms and conditions. 
But I also note that Assurant have said there was no evidence to support that the car had 
been locked. Or that the car had been hacked into. Without that evidence they felt they could 
decline the claim as it would mean the gadgets hadnt been locked away. So the 
requirements of the policy wouldnt have been met.
But theres also no evidence that the car wasnt locked. The police told Assurant in February 
2021 that theyd taken reports of similar offences in that area. Thered been a number of 
thefts where there was no sign of damage or forced entry to the vehicles targeted. 
Assurant have said that they felt the lack of forced entry suggested Mr Hs car hadnt been 
locked before the theft. I disagree. Considering what the police told Assurant, and Mr Hs 
own evidence of how he found the car with the passenger door ajar, Im persuaded that on 
balance of probabilities Mr H did lock his car before the theft. So Im satisfied that he did lock 
his gadgets away  therefore meeting the terms and conditions of his policy.
I acknowledge that Assurant have said that Mr H was aware thered been similar thefts in his 
area. They say that shouldve made him more careful and aware. While I have some 
sympathy with this view, I cant see that any part of the terms and conditions have been 
breached because of Mr Hs awareness of the existence of thieves operating in this manner.
Overall, when taking everything into consideration, I dont think that Assurant have applied 
the terms fairly and reasonably to Mr Hs claim. Im satisfied that he did lock his car before 
the theft. Im also satisfied that his headphones couldnt be seen from outside the car. So Im 
not persuaded that Assurant fairly and reasonably declined his claim. So I intend to ask 
Assurant to put things right.
Response to my provisional decision
Assurant didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr H accepted my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set 
out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
 I require Assurant to settle Mr Hs claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. If this would usually involve providing a replacement action camera and 
headphones and Mr H has already purchased other devices, Assurant should reimburse him 
for this cost upon receipt of suitable evidence. I also require Assurant to also pay 8% simple interest from the date of the loss to the date of the settlement of the claim.  
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited should carry out the actions detailed in the Putting 
things right" section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman