DRN-4276000
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) irresponsibly granted him a hire 
purchase agreement that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr S acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Advantage. Mr S was required to make one instalment of £451.44 and 47 monthly 
repayments of £276.44 and an optional purchase fee of £175. The total amount repayable 
under the agreement was £13,444.12. Mr S and his representative for the complaint believe 
Advantage failed to complete adequate affordability checks. Mr S says that if it had it 
wouldve been clear that the agreement wasnt affordable.
Advantage disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate an affordability check including credit 
bureau data that it felt made a strong case for approval of the agreement. It found historic 
defaults on two accounts and some county court judgments. It said its checks showed Mr S 
had the ability to sustainably afford the finance proposed.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. They thought 
Advantages checks werent proportionate but that had proportionate checks been 
completed it still would have found the finance was affordable.
Mr S and his representative disagreed, and it explained that the case should be 
reconsidered because Mr S had two dependants at the time. Our Investigator felt that this 
did not impact their outcome as theyd already factored in any evidenced income and 
expenditure from Mr Ss bank statements.
Mr S and his representative asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Mr S took out his agreement 
with Advantage.  Its rules and guidance obliged Advantage to lend responsibly. Advantage 
needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether a borrower could 
afford to meet its repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement. 
This was set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC 5.3.1(G) stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's 
ability to repay the credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments without undue 
difficulty - using regular income, avoiding further borrowing to meet payments and making 
timely repayments over the life of the agreement without having to realise security or assets 
(CONC 5.3.1G (6)).
The FCA didnt specify what exact level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment. But it did say that the level of detail depended on the type of credit, the amount 
of credit being granted and the associated risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2.4G (2)).
So, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. Id expect a lender to 
seek more assurance the lower a persons income, the higher the amount of credit being 
applied for and the longer the term of the agreement. It is from this standpoint and criteria 
that Ive approached my decision.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Mr Ss complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did Advantage complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
S would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Advantage complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
Im not satisfied that Advantage gathered a reasonable amount of information from Mr S 
about his income and expenditure prior to approving the finance. Advantages searches 
found that Mr S was left with around £1,175 in disposable income, but its credit check data 
which its been unable to provide suggested that Mr S had two defaults and some county 
court judgments. Whilst these were historic  it demonstrated that Mr S had previously failed 
in his obligations on several accounts. And so, it would have been proportionate to ask Mr S 
about his actual income and expenditure at the time, to ensure that his financial situation had 
improved and that he could repay the loan sustainably.
I want to be clear that Ive considered Advantages position about the type of checks that it 
did complete. And I understand that it felt none of the searches it completed demonstrated 
any risk of financial stress. However, considering the circumstances already mentioned Im 
not satisfied that these checks adequately gathered a proportionate amount of information. 
Advantage was lending Mr S a significant amount of money which required payments over a 
four-year period. Its checks failed to answer how much Mr S actually had left to spend from 
his income after existing commitments.Advantage have also highlighted that Mr S signed the agreement confirming he understood 
the credit agreement to be affordable for him  and I dont doubt that at the time he believed 
this to be true, but Im also not satisfied that this confirmation would remove the need for 
Advantage to complete proportionate affordability checks for his specific circumstances and 
come to its own conclusion.
Given the size of the lending, the monthly repayments, the length of agreement and the 
information in Mr Ss credit file, I think it would have been proportionate for Advantage to 
have enquired about Mr Ss specific expenditure  including costs such as food, petrol, 
utilities and housing. Without knowing what his regular committed expenditure was 
Advantage wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was 
affordable for his specific circumstances. 
As Advantage dont appear to have sought a reasonable understanding of Mr Ss total 
committed expenditure, I dont think it carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks before lending. Advantage needed to do more in the circumstances before agreeing 
to lend. Without knowing what his regular committed expenditure was, Advantage wouldnt 
have got a reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable for him. 
Im satisfied Advantage didnt complete proportionate affordability checks, but this doesnt 
automatically mean it failed to make a fair a lending decision.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr S could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Ive considered what Advantage would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. I cant be certain what Mr S would have told 
Advantage had it asked about his regular expenditure. I dont think Advantage necessarily 
needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed 
significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ss statements from the three months 
leading up to the application.
The statements show Mr S was receiving an average of around £2,300 a month in income 
from his salary. His regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £1,400. 
In calculating these amounts Ive included any applicable payments for credit commitments, 
housing costs, utilities, food, fuel and other ongoing costs. Ive also removed Mr Ss previous 
motor finance agreement that was ended upon obtaining this hire purchase agreement.
Its clear from the statements that Mr S shared responsibility for the various financial 
commitments of his household with his partner, and this hasnt been disputed after our 
Investigator issued their view stating as such. Mr Ms income amounted to around 65% of 
their combined income. So, Ive apportioned 65% of the commitments listed in his joint bank 
account statements. It appeared that Mr S was left with around £900 in disposable income 
before factoring in the finance agreement. Again, this takes account of a 65% share of the 
outgoings in the statements provided, along with removal of the existing car finance 
agreement that was ended when the finance with Advantage was approved. This means that 
after factoring in the finance payments Mr S was left with around £620 of disposable income 
for things such as unexpected or emergency costs. 
The one caveat for these figures is that they dont account for numerous cash withdrawals 
on the bank statements provided  but even if I assume that every cash withdrawal was for a 
committed expenditure (which is unlikely given their sporadic and variable nature) and 
include 65% of the withdrawals in my calculations, this still left Mr S with around £300 for 
emergency costs.Mr Ss testimony suggests that at the time he was behind on household bills, and struggling 
to remain within his overdraft. However, the evidence hes provided doesnt demonstrate that 
this was the case  the statements provided show a joint current account that was being 
managed well at the time. So, on balance of the evidence provided Im satisfied that 
proportionate checks would have shown Mr S could sustainably repay the borrowing.
Mr Ss representative has explained that he had two dependants, and it feels that this has 
not been factored in. However, Id expect any impact this had on Mr Ss finances to already 
be present in the bank statements hes provided, and so in the absence of any further 
evidence Im satisfied that this consideration is also already included.
Taking all this into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable for Mr S. 
Altogether his income and expenditure at the time satisfies me that the agreement did not 
appear to be unaffordable. Its clear that if Advantage had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks it would most likely have found that Mr S could sustainably 
afford the hire purchase agreement.
Did Advantage act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that Advantage acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman