DRN-3502251
Complaint
Mr R has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loan was irresponsibly provided to him as it was unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr R with a loan for £1,500.00 in February 2015. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £135.82. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr R as proportionate 
checks would more likely than not have shown it to be unaffordable. So she thought that     
Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. 118 118 Money disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision of 18 May 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 18 May 2022 - setting out why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide 
Mr Rs complaint. 
I went on to explain that 118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, what this meant was that 118 118 Money needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr R could afford to repay before 
providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding 
whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a 
lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it 
does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money said it agreed to Mr Rs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr R could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr R said the loan 
was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to him.
I went on to think about what Mr R and 118 118 Money said. 
118 118 Money had provided a record of the results of its credit searches. These searches 
appeared to show that Mr Rs debt total was reasonable in comparison to his income and 
that they appeared to be relatively well managed. Our adjudicators assessment suggested 
that 118 118 Money wasnt entitled to rely on the monthly disposable income figure arrived 
at because it was the same as the total amount being borrowed and so it ought to have been 
obvious to 118 118 Money that this was incorrect.
However, I disagreed with our adjudicators conclusions for a number of reasons. The first 
reason was because this was Mr Rs first loan with 118 118 Money and he was being lent a 
relatively low amount. And I thought that 118 118 Money was entitled to rely on a lighter 
touch assessment at this stage of the lending relationship. 
Secondly, notwithstanding the monthly disposable income figure arrived at, there wasnt 
anything in the information gathered which obviously called into question the information    
Mr R provided. Mr R said he was living at home with his parents and paying a limited amount 
towards rent and bills and his credit file didnt show any credit commitments either. Indeed, 
Mr Rs previous lack of credit might in itself have been a reason for obtaining this loan as he 
might have been looking to build a history of repaying credit. 
Finally, 118 118 Money didnt appear to have simply relied on what Mr R said about his 
income. The information suggested that it electronically cross-checked Mr Rs declaration of 
income against the amount going into his current account each amount. I said that I wouldnt 
go as far as saying that this was the same as actually verifying Mr Rs income. But I also 
thought that it would be unfair to say that 118 118 simply relied on Mr Rs declaration of his 
income. 
And given Mr Rs account was receiving funds  albeit not through his employment  I was 
nonetheless reasonably satisfied that the steps 118 118 Money took were proportionate in 
this instance. I said this because this was a first loan for a relatively low amount and there 
wasnt anything else in the other information gathered which highlighted anything to be 
concerned about.     
I accepted that Mr R appeared to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money 
obtained. Equally I also accepted that if 118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks 
Mr R and our adjudicator appeared to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank 
statements  it might have seen that Mr Rs declaration about his employment status was 
inaccurate. 
But I explained that it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances in this case, 
and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I didnt think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have extended into doing anything further. 
As this was the case, I set out that it was my intention to issue a final decision which 
concluded that 118 118 Money didnt do anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr R. As 
far as I could see, it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found 
out which suggested the repayments were affordable. Responses to my provisional decision
118 118 Money confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It said that it accepted my 
findings and that it had nothing further to provide ahead of my final decision.
Mr R said he wanted the evidence reconsidered as he strongly disagreed with my findings. 
He went on to say that the loan is having a massive impact on his life and he has no 
payment plan and hes not in a position to make any payments.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Rs further points and have once again reviewed the information provided 
from the outset. But while I do sympathise with what Mr R has said about the effect this loan 
has had and Im sorry to hear about the difficult time hes going through, I remain satisfied 
that this being a first loan for a relatively small amount coupled with there not being anything 
to suggest that Mr R may have provided inaccurate information, meant that 118 118 Money 
was entitled to rely on what it had. 
So it wouldnt have been reasonable and proportionate for 118 118 Money to have 
requested information such as bank statements like Mr R suggests. As this is the case, I 
remain satisfied that 118 118 Money didnt act unfairly when providing this loan to Mr R.
Ive noted what Mr R has said about his current difficulties and him being unable to make 
any payments. But as 118 118 Money sold Mr Rs loan sometime ago, it cannot arrange to 
set up a repayment plan with Mr R at this stage. Nonetheless the current owner of Mr Rs 
debt is required to exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event a debtor is 
having difficulty making payments. So Mr R should get in contact with the current owner of 
his debt to arrange a repayment plan and if hes unhappy with the response he receives he 
may be able to formally complain about this.
 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that 118 118 Money acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its dealings with Mr R. So Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate 
this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr R. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 18 May 2022, Im not 
upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman