DRN-3107983
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to cancel his credit card after it was stolen 
and declined to refund numerous transactions from the account that he didnt recognise.
What happened
In his complaint, Mr G stated that hed been in an accident in December 2018 and had his 
credit card stolen along with other documents. Mr G says he attempted to notify HSBC by 
phone on several occasions about the theft, without success. Due to mobility and related 
health issues following his accident, he was unable to leave his property until the following 
June. Mr G explained that hed also reported the loss to the police and Action Fraud shortly 
after the loss was discovered.
Mr G has explained that he then visited local HSBC branches on at least four different 
occasions to report the card was stolen, but again this wasnt acted upon. He reported 
further problems with another card in a visit in August 2019 and has stated that he notified 
the branch manager about his stolen credit card.
Mr G went on to explain that he printed is own statements and visited a different branch in 
June 2020 to report the issue when it was eventually recorded by HSBC. Mr G claimed that 
because HSBC failed to cancel his card, there were numerous transactions that he didnt 
recognise, totalling more than £13,000 which hes not responsible for. 
HSBC have explained that Mr G recorded numerous disputed transactions with them over 
several different credit and debit cards. They have no record of the credit card linked to this 
complaint being reported stolen. It was cancelled in October 2019 following a call from Mr G 
when he disputed four transactions to the same merchant. 
HSBC believed Mr G was responsible for the transactions and explained there were a mix of 
transactions which used both the genuine card with its Personal Identification Number (PIN) 
and distance transactions using the card details. They highlighted payments to the same 
merchants that Mr G hadnt disputed and they thought that it would be unlikely for an 
unauthorised third party to use the same merchants as Mr G. HSBC provided evidence of Mr 
G purchasing a travel visa during the time he said he couldnt leave his home. They said Mr 
G also disputed a card payment from his current account that had been made in the same 
country as the visa. They believed this was an indication that Mr G could travel  despite 
what hed told HSBC.
HSBC held Mr G liable for the transactions and he then made a complaint. As part of his 
complaint, Mr G wrote to HSBC and explained about his accident, confirmed the credit card 
was stolen whilst he was in hospital, he hadnt written his (PIN) down or given it to anyone. 
He also explained how he wasnt able to leave his house until about June 2019. 
HSBC continued to believe that Mr G was liable and declined to make a refund based on his 
complaint that all the transactions since his card was stolen were unauthorised. Mr G 
remained unhappy with how HSBC had handled his complaint and he brought it to our 
service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought 
it was reasonable for HSBC to hold Mr G liable for the transactions. She thought that Mr Gs 
spending on other cards matched transactions he was disputing, including a successful cash 
withdrawal in a foreign country that indicated Mr G was travelling, whilst at the same time he 
disputed a transaction related to that trip that was made using his credit card. She couldnt 
identify how someone could have obtained the PIN to use the card.
Our investigator thought Mr G could have notified the bank sooner than he did  to prevent 
further losses from his credit card  but she concluded she couldnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for a further review, believing that HSBC were bound to refund 
him because hed reported the card to the police as stolen and theyd determined it was a 
criminal offence. Mr G believed he was due a refund based on Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 
legislation. The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G is correct when he says that the investigation of criminal offences is the responsibility 
of the police, including any investigation under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002. But, these 
matters arent relevant to his complaint to our service. My remit is to determine whether its 
fair for HSBC to hold him liable for the transactions hes disputed. 
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that HSBC can hold Mr G liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them 
or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
HSBC have supplied evidence that shows that either the  genuine card and PIN or the cards 
details were used to make the transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the 
disputed transactions were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which HSBC and Mr G agreed to use the card for transactions. 
For example, when using the card and PIN together or the card details, HSBC agree to 
accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or another 
approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case used 
either the genuine card and the correct PIN or the correct card details, so Im satisfied that 
consent was given and the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions 
where it wouldnt be appropriate for HSBC to hold Mr G responsible, for example if the card 
was used without his permission.
Mr Gs case is that following an accident, his card was taken and then used for about ten 
months without his permission. He explained that hed tried to cancel the card on numerous 
occasions, but HSBC failed to act on his notification to them. I examined the card usage and 
can see that numerous transactions used both the genuine card and the PIN to carry them 
out. What that means here is that someone used the card Mr G said was stolen and was 
able to correctly guess the PIN. Mr G had already confirmed he hadnt written it down or told 
anyone what his PIN was. Given the number of combinations possible with a four figure PIN, 
I dont think that its likely that someone was able to guess it. Of course, its possible to 
correctly guess it, but I dont think its the probable explanation.
Mr G also explained to HSBC that hed had an accident which had kept him from leaving his 
house until about June 2019 and was part of the reason for not visiting a branch to report the 
card stolen. Ive listened to calls Mr G had with HSBC throughout this period, where he was 
speaking with them about other transactions he was disputing. One of which related to a charge in February 2019, from a hotel Mr G was staying at in another country Ill refer to as 
J. In a call to HSBC in early February 2019, Mr G said  Im in J at the moment and my card 
was swiped at the check in desk. . He went on to dispute a transaction he didnt 
recognise.
So, it would appear that Mr G was able to leave his house much earlier, despite telling 
HSBC that he was effectively house bound. The relevance of this is that Mr G had disputed 
all transactions on his credit card since his accident which included a visa application for 
travel to J. The evidence indicates Mr G was in J in February 2019, so it seems likely the 
charge for a visa was related to this trip and he could probably have visited a branch earlier 
to notify them about his card. Mr G has said he went to various branches to notify them 
about his stolen card and nothing ever happened. There are no records of this that HSBC 
have been able to find. I would expect to see HSBC react positively to one of their customers 
reporting their card as stolen  and record the stolen card on their systems as its in 
everyones interest to block the card. But that didnt happen here and Mr G hasnt been able 
to provide any evidence of his visits to the branches.
Mr G also said that hed contacted HSBC on numerous occasions to notify them about the 
stolen card. Ive reviewed calls between HSBC and Mr G and various notes and 
correspondence they had between them. Mr G was in contact with HSBC about other 
matters at least once every month from December 2018 onwards until the card was 
cancelled in October 2019. There were various disputes raised about other cards, but I 
couldnt find any reference to Mr Gs claim that hed notified HSBC about his stolen credit 
card. He did dispute four specific transactions made with that card related to a disagreement 
he had with another merchant, so its likely he was aware that his card was still being used. 
It would have been a simple matter to tell them the credit card was stolen during any of 
these conversations, but theres no evidence of that.
Mr G hasnt been able to provide any evidence of his notifications to HSBC. He said to our 
investigator: despite being housebound with a severe spinal nerve injury and being heavily 
medicated for both pain, I telephoned HSBC within 24 hours of the accident and was 
informed the card had been re-issued. I continued to call HSBC on average 2-3 times 
per week requesting the cancellation of the card until I was physically able to get to a 
branch, the same response was issued. The evidence of a trip to J seems to be at odds with 
Mr Gs version of what happened.
I also examined the way the card was used, and it showed a successful transaction at a 
sporting club which took place prior to the loss of his card. There were several more to the 
same club after Mr G said it was stolen from the hospital. There are also numerous 
transactions to other similar sporting clubs after it was reported stolen. There are also 
successful transactions from his debit card to the same merchants hes disputed with his 
credit card. Taken together, I think it would be unlikely that if a random stranger took his 
card, they would be able to successfully guess the PIN and use it at the exact same sporting 
club that Mr G attended some six days earlier. Then go on to use the card at the same type 
of sporting clubs and other matching merchants used by Mr G. 
In summary, Mr G claimed all transactions since the date of his accident were unauthorised. 
He stated hed tried to notify HSBC on multiple occasions that his card had been stolen and 
his accident prevented him from visiting a branch earlier than he did. Having reviewed all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that Mr G was more likely than not responsible for making these 
transactions or allowing someone else to use his card. The picture hes presented isnt 
supported by the evidence and I think it was reasonable for HSBC to hold him liable for the 
transactions and I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman