DRN-3003499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax. Theyre unhappy with the poor return theyve received and 
believe they were misinformed about the nature of the investment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S received investment advice from Halifax in 2004. At the time of the sale it was
recorded that they:
were 46 and 45 respectively
owned two properties with an outstanding mortgage of around £36,000
had around £34,500 on deposit and £1,300 in an investment
had a monthly net disposable income of around £1,300
wanted to review their savings to see if they could get a better rate of return
had a cautious/medium attitude to risk
They were advised to invest £10,000 in a Guaranteed Investment Plan (GIP). They accepted 
the recommendation and the investment was put in place.
In 2019 they complained to Halifax and the complaint was partially upheld. Halifax didnt 
think that the advice was unsuitable but thought that they should have written to Mr and Mrs 
S between 2009 and 2010 to explain that there had been changes to the underlying fund. 
And if they had done so, then Mr and Mrs S would most likely have chosen to re-invest in a 
guaranteed reserve account which paid a fixed rate of interest of 4.1% per annum for two 
years.
They then offered Mr and Mrs S redress based on what they would have earned if theyd 
reinvested in the reserve account between 2009 and 2011 and the difference in return Mr 
and Mrs S received from the GIP versus what they would have broadly received if their 
money had been invested in fixed rate bonds.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept Halifaxs findings and brought their complaint to this service.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, subject to any further submissions, I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. Im not persuaded that the 2004 advice to invest £10,000 in the GIP was unsuitable. 
The documentation from the time says that Mr and Mrs S were looking for a better rate of
return on their savings. They had previous investment experience and were rated as
cautious/medium or a score of two out of five on a risk scale. The only lower score was 
cautious - which would generally be deposit based products.
Its noted that they had previously invested in pooled investments but now wanted to take 
less risk. The GIP was described as a fund which had a mix of Equities and Gilts/Fixed 
Interest stock with the potential for long-term growth. There was a capital guarantee after 
five years which provided some security. This seems to broadly fit Mr and Mrs S 
requirements and attitude to risk at the time. I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to 
recommend that they place some of their capital in a product which had the potential to 
exceed the returns being offered by their deposit accounts.
The recommendation left Mr and Mrs S with around £24,500 or 70% of capital on deposit 
and they had surplus income of around £1,300 each month. Given their circumstances, I 
think Mr and Mrs S were in a position where they could take a risk with some of their capital.
They had adequate funds left on deposit for emergencies so I dont think Mr and Mrs S were
advised to invest too much of their available capital.
I note the investigators comments about the adviser not informing Mr and Mrs S about the
likelihood of the GIP outperforming fixed rate bonds that were on offer on the time. However
I think the GIP offered the potential to provide a good rate of return. Unlike many other
capital guaranteed products, there was no cap on the return so in theory it could have
outperformed the rate of return of the fixed rate bonds being offered at the time.
There was the risk of course that the GIP would only return the amount invested. However,
having reviewed the documentation that Mr and Mrs S were provided with at the time - such
as the Illustration and the Key Facts Document  I dont think its unreasonable to suggest
they should have been broadly aware of how the investment worked, the risks and the
charges that applied.
Taking everything into account, I think the recommendation was broadly suitable for Mr and
Mrs S. I appreciate they have concerns with the performance of the investment but just
because they didnt receive a better return doesnt mean the recommendation was
unsuitable. Notwithstanding this, the performance of the investment isnt something that our
service is able to look at.
Halifax have pointed out that the nature of the investment changed in 2009. Changes to the
makeup of the underlying fund meant that its growth prospects were limited and Mr and Mrs
S were not informed of these changes. Theyve rightly offered to compensate Mr and Mrs S
for the loss of growth since that time and I think their offer is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate my decision isn't what Mr and Mrs S want to hear. But having considered all the
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint or ask Halifax to do
any more.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in the provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that the offer already made is enough to settle the 
complaint. I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to honour the offer they have 
already made to Mr and Mrs S, should they choose to accept it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman