DRN-3925491
The complaint
Mr O complains about emails and text messages sent by American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex).
What happened
Mr O has an Amex credit card that previously had a credit limit of £30,000. At the beginning 
of March 2022 Amex sent Mr O an email that said it was reducing his credit limit to £27,160 
following a review of his account. Amexs email said the change would take immediate 
effect. 
From this point, Mr O received regular text messages and emails from Amex advising he 
was close to his credit limit. 
Mr O contacted Amex on multiple occasions and asked about the messages he was 
receiving. A complaint was raised and Amex issued a final response, offering Mr O £50. In 
its final response, Amex said the messages Mr O was receiving could be switched off and 
shouldnt be sent going forward. But Mr O continued to receive the same messages. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Os complaint. During the investigation, Amex 
advised the messages Mr O receives are considered to be account administration and cant 
be switched off by amending communication preferences. The investigator thought Amex 
had dealt with Mr Os complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr O asked to 
appeal, so his case was passed to me to make a decision. 
I reviewed the file and contacted Amex. I accepted that Mr O couldnt switch off the 
messages in question. But I thought Amex shouldve been able to easily explain that when 
Mr O contacted it over the course of his complaint. I said I intended to award a further £150, 
taking the total award to £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Amex confirmed it 
was willing to proceed on that basis. I also contacted Mr O and let him know about the 
increased settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree about the 
circumstances of Mr Os complaint. As Ive said above, I recently contacted Amex and said I 
thought the level of service provided to Mr O fell short and that he shouldve been able to get 
a straight forward answer to his questions. Amexs final response advised the messages 
could be switched off, but its since confirmed that information was wrong. Amex has 
confirmed the messages cannot be switch off and are sent when card holders approach the 
credit limit. Looking at the available information, Im satisfied thats the case. 
In my view, the way Mr Os enquiries were handled caused him a reasonable level of 
inconvenience. Amex has agreed to pay Mr O a further £150, taking the total settlement to 
£200, to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied the increased 
settlement is a fair and reasonable way to deal with Mr Os complaint and reflects the issues 
hes raised. As a result, Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold Mr Os complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) to pay a total settlement of £150 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman