DRN-3713931
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wouldnt 
allow them to pay a lump sum off of their mortgage and take out a new mortgage rate at the 
same time, without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs L held a mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage had two sub accounts, both of 
which were on fixed rate deals. The deal relating to the larger of the two sub accounts was 
due to end in June 2022. 
Mr and Mrs L contacted Halifax in April 2022 and told it they wanted to make a lump sum 
payment and book a new rate. Halifax said its systems wouldnt allow both things to happen 
at the same time and that, as such, Mr and Mrs L had two options. They could either make 
the lump sum payment and book the new rate ahead of the current deal ending - but this 
would mean incurring an ERC. Or, wait until the current deal had ended, make the lump sum 
payment whilst on the standard variable rate (SVR) (without incurring an ERC) and then 
choose/book a new mortgage rate at that time, subject to what was available at that time. 
Mr and Mrs L complained that this wasnt fair. They didnt feel they should be forced to wait 
for the current deal to end because they thought rates were likely to go up. They also didnt 
want to be forced to go onto the SVR before agreeing a new deal, because this would mean  
paying a higher amount before any new deal was in place.  
Halifax said that if Mr and Mrs L decided to wait and then went on to the SVR before 
agreeing a new deal, it would refund the extra amount paid due to being on the SVR for that 
month only. It also said it had paid £50 to reflect issues with its complaint handling. But it 
maintained its fundamental position in terms of the choices available to Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy and referred their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. They still didnt think that what Halifax had offered was fair. They said that if they 
were forced to wait to make the lump sum payment (to avoid paying an ERC), Halifax should 
have to refund them the difference in cost if the deals available at that time had become 
more expensive i.e. if the interest rate available had gone up. 
An investigator here considered the matter and reached a view. In summary, he said that he 
didnt think Halifax position was unfair and he didnt think it needed to do anything different. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld, for fundamentally the 
same reasons as the investigator. I realise that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs L. 
But I hope my explanation helps them to understand why Ive come to the conclusion that I 
have.
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for 
reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue 
to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this 
complaint, when doing that.
The fundamental issue here is whether Halifax has treated Mr and Mrs L fairly. I think it 
has. Ill explain why.  
First, I can understand Mr and Mrs Ls desire to organise the lump sum payment and book 
a new rate at the same time, ahead of time - without incurring an ERC. Halifax says its 
systems dont allow for the two things to happen at the same time. I dont think this is 
inherently unreasonable. I say this because I cant see that Mr and Mrs L have been 
stopped from doing something they were entitled to under their mortgage contact. 
The contract Mr and Mrs L agreed to in 2020 didnt allow for overpayments in excess of 
10% of the outstanding balance each calendar year, during the fixed rate period  without 
Mr and Mrs L incurring an ERC. The amount Mr and Mrs L wanted to repay exceeded the 
10% figure. On this basis, it was reasonable for Halifax to say that if Mr and Mrs L wanted 
to avoid the ERC, they would need to wait until the fixed rate period had ended before 
making the repayment and then taking out a new product.
Mr and Mrs L could have booked a rate in advance of when their fixed rate was due to end, 
but if they wanted the new mortgage rate to apply to a smaller balance by repaying the 
amount they intended to, they would have needed to pay the relevant ERC.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs L have been treated differently to any other borrower. Also, 
although Mr and Mrs L expected interest rates to increase (and they did), this wasnt 
guaranteed. The reverse scenario could have been true i.e. by needing to wait to pay the 
lump sum, they could have ended up with a lower rate.
From what I can see on file, Mr and Mrs Ls previous rate was due to end in June, they 
would be on the SVR in July and the new rate would start from August. I can see that 
Halifax has offered to calculate the extra Mr and Mrs L would pay by being on the SVR for 
one month, before the new rate kicked in. I think this is fair and it isnt something I wouldve 
directed Halifax to do. I can also see Halifax offered £50 to reflect an issue with the way in 
which Mr and Mrs Ls complaint was handled. Strictly speaking, the complaint handling 
issue doesnt fall within my remit. However, this also seems reasonable enough to me. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I find that Halifax doesnt need to do anything further in this 
case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about Bank of Scotland 
trading as Halifax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman