DRN-3881743
The complaint
Miss S, represented by her daughter Ms S, complained about Lloyds Bank plc. She 
complained because Lloyds didnt refund unauthorised direct debits, and provided her with 
poor customer service when she was trying to get this resolved.
What happened
In early 2022, Miss S received her Lloyds statement, and saw that there had been a £90 
direct debit on 4 January to a company she didnt recognise. She contacted her daughter Ms 
S, who googled the company and made further investigations. Ms S was told by a legal 
services firm that the company named on her mothers bank statement had been transferring 
data to invented companies which then defrauded customers. Ms S was advised that her 
mother should go to her bank to stop the direct debit and claim the money back. 
So Miss S went to a Lloyds branch on 8 March to do that. She didnt find the branch adviser 
helpful and was just told that the payment could be insurance and her daughter should 
google it. Miss S was sent away with nothing done. Ms S tried to sort it out by phone, but 
couldnt because she wasnt a joint account holder. So her mother Miss S had to go back to 
the branch.
Miss S went to Lloyds on 9 March. This time the direct debit was cancelled, but the branch 
didnt action the claim under the direct debit guarantee, so Miss S could get her money back 
on the fraudulent debit.
Ms S went to her mothers house to sort it out, and rang Lloyds from there with her mother 
present, around 12.20pm. She said the adviser was unprofessional. Shed partly explained 
the problem, and the adviser said hed raise a direct debit indemnity. Ms S said that shed 
continued to explain, but the adviser told her he couldnt concentrate while she was 
speaking, and had then said can you speak when I ask you to speak. I just need to get this 
done and I need to concentrate. The adviser offered £50 compensation if Miss S would 
close the complaint, but Ms S said her mother needed to know whether more payments had 
been taken out. She said the adviser sighed, then spoke to his supervisor and offered £65 if 
she would close the complaint. Miss S was upset at being asked to close the complaint 
when it wasnt resolved, and the adviser told her to go to the branch again to sort out the 
other payments.
Miss S and her daughter Ms S then went back to the branch at around 2pm. They spoke to 
an adviser who told her that Lloyds telephone banking could have sorted everything 
straightaway. The adviser also spotted other payments which needed refunding.
They rang Lloyds again when they got back, and the complaint was reopened and a further 
indemnity raised.
Miss Ss bank statement shows that £90 was refunded on 9 March, and amounts of £270, 
£90 and £90 on 14 March. In total this was for six of the disputed £90 direct debits. A £65 
compensation payment was also paid to Miss Ss account the same day.
On 17 March, Miss S received a letter saying one direct debit indemnity had been declined, 
but no reason was given. Miss S and her daughter rang Lloyds again to sort this out. Ms S 
said the adviser was helpful and couldnt understand the direct debit indemnity rejection. He 
also spotted another payment and raised an indemnity for that as well. So there were two 
outstanding £90 direct debits. 
Miss S and Ms S also asked for a branch appointment so that Ms S could be added to Miss 
Ss account, to make it easier in future. They were promised a call back the next day, which 
didnt happen. So Miss S went to the branch again, but wasnt allowed to make an 
appointment because she hadnt got her bank card with her, only her driving licence.
Miss S and Ms S went back to the branch for an appointment another day, to add Ms S to 
her mothers account. Having waited half an hour, Miss S was told that as the account was 
no longer available, adding Ms S would mean having to change to a new account with a 
higher fee. Miss S felt she should have been told that before she booked the appointment.
Miss S and Ms S also showed branch staff the letter about the rejected direct debit 
indemnity. It took a long time for the branch to be able to get through to someone in an 
internal department by phone, and they too didnt understand why this had been rejected 
when others to the same company had been refunded.
On 30 March, Lloyds sent Miss S a letter saying that it was taking longer than expected to 
resolve her complaint, and that she could now refer it to this service. Miss S did so.
On 1 April, Lloyds sent its final response to Miss Ss complaint. It upheld her complaint, and 
said it would pay her £40 compensation, which was in addition to £65 which it had paid on 
14 March. This was credited to her account the same day. Lloyds said this was for the poor 
service Miss S had received when shed called to discuss her direct debits. It agreed it 
should have been more helpful when she called, and asked her to accept Lloyds apologies 
for the upset and inconvenience caused due to Lloyds not raising all her claims on the first 
call.
Miss S, represented by her daughter, wasnt satisfied and asked this service to investigate 
her complaint.
After this, Lloyds changed its mind about the direct debit indemnity which had been rejected. 
It said it agreed it should have refunded the other two payments, and paid £180 into Miss Ss 
account on 29 June.
Our investigator said that as Lloyds had now refunded the two outstanding disputed direct 
debits for £180, hed consider the service part of the complaint. He said that Lloyds hadnt 
been able to provide him with the call where an advisor was pushing for a resolution, but the 
advisors on subsequent calls had said that the service on the previous call hadnt been 
acceptable. And an advisor had said it could all have been completed on the first occasion, 
removing the need for more trips to the branch or phone calls to Lloyds. He said, however, 
that he thought the £105 which Lloyds had paid was in line with what hed recommend.
Miss S didnt agree. She said it had been messy and stressful. She said Lloyds hadnt 
explained why it had refused two of the refunds. She also pointed out that it was very odd 
that the one call Lloyds couldnt provide was the first one. And she said that the time, 
journeys to and from the branch, and calls, should all be taken into consideration. 
The investigator replied that he had taken into account the time, journeys to and from the 
branch, and calls. He said that from what he could see, the direct debit indemnities which failed had done so because details hadnt matched. He also said that Lloyds had sent a list 
of all available call recordings, but the main call hadnt been available. 
Ms S said that theyd provided the name, date and time of the call, so it felt like Lloyds was 
avoiding sending it, as they thought all calls were recorded. She asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Regulations
In my provisional decision, I explained that there are regulations which govern disputed 
transactions. There are two different sets of regulations for disputed transactions taking 
place between February 2014 and January 2022. These are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009, and the Payment Services Regulations 2017. However, both are similar in 
that in general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and 
the customer is liable if they did authorise them. Here, both sides agree that Miss S didnt 
authorise the eight disputed direct debits. So she was entitled to have the payments 
refunded by Lloyds.
Financial loss
Looking first at the disputed sums, Ms S, representing her mother, helpfully listed these in 
her email to this service. There were eight £90 fraudulent debits between February 2014 and 
January 2022. I checked Miss Ss bank statement and as Ive set out above, Lloyds 
refunded £90 on 9 March; amounts of £270, £90 and £90 on 14 March. Finally, it refunded 
the outstanding £180 on 29 June, after Miss S had brought her complaint to this service. 
This means that all eight were refunded, and theres no outstanding claim for financial loss 
for me to consider. I said that I appreciated that they werent all refunded as promptly as they 
should have been, but this is dealt with under customer service below.
Customer service
I appreciated Ms Ss concern that Lloyds wasnt able to provide this service with the call 
recording for the call where she said she had particularly poor customer service. Ms Ss 
account of events was logical and persuasive, and she had been precise about dates, times 
and names. There was also a clear link to the narrative  for example that this call happened 
at 12.20 to 1.30pm, and they then went to the branch as a result of that, arriving around 
2pm. So I accepted that Ms S and her mother Miss S made this call. Given the consistency 
of the testimony and the fact the call isnt available, there was nothing direct to challenge 
what Ms S says happened during the call. So weighing this up I accepted what Ms S says 
took place. 
Miss S and her daughter had to make multiple trips to the branch, and they also had to make 
many calls.  Not all of these encounters were successful or positive  either in the handling 
of the calls, or in what the advisers did. Lloyds accepted that its customer service was poor, and that it should have been more helpful. On one of the calls, Lloyds adviser also said  as 
the branch told Miss S  that it should have been possible to deal with everything on the first 
occasion. This didnt happen.
I considered the amount of compensation which Lloyds paid. In total it paid £105. I 
considered that could have been fair for the parts of this complaint which the head office call 
handlers dealt with. But I didnt consider it took into account a number of other factors:
- It couldnt have taken into account of M Ss testimony about the distress she felt 
during the call, which for the reasons Ive outlined I found persuasive;
- The branch service appears to have been very variable, including among other 
factors Miss S being sent away on 8 March without action, and the direct debit being 
cancelled on 9 March but the claim under the guarantee not being raised;
- At the time when Miss S referred her complaint to us, Lloyds was still refusing to 
refund the final two payments. It later acknowledged it should have done so. So it 
couldnt have considered the impact of this when making its initial offer. 
For these reasons, I considered that a fairer compensation figure would be £250. For clarity, 
I can only consider the impact on Miss S, who was the account holder. I recognised that Ms 
S had a great deal of distress and inconvenience too, but I could only consider this in the 
much narrower way in which her daughters distress would have impacted on Miss S the 
account holder. I considered that £250 would be a fair and reasonable figure for Miss Ss 
distress and inconvenience. 
Lloyds had paid Miss S £105, which would leave a further £145 to pay.
Adding Ms S to Miss Ss account
In the complaint, Ms S reported that she and her mother had asked for an appointment to 
add Ms S to the account, to make life easier for Miss S if anything went wrong again. After 
waiting half an hour after the appointment time, theyd been told that Miss S would lose all 
benefits of the account if Ms S was added, as it was a closed account type. And there would 
be a higher fee if a new account type was opened. Ms S said that if theyd been told that 
when making the appointment, they could have avoided the extra journey.
It appeared that this was raised with the branch as a complaint, but not with Lloyds head 
office. So I asked Lloyds for more information about this. I asked whether it was Lloyds 
position that it wouldnt add Ms S to her mothers account (subject to the proper authority 
from Miss S). I asked why being a closed account type would prevent Ms S being added. I 
also asked whether, in view of Miss Ss age, Ms S could be added as a representative, if this 
was what Miss S and Ms S wished.
Lloyds replied that as it no longer offered that account type, adding Miss Ss daughter would 
mean theyd have to change it to a different account type. It said Miss S couldnt add her 
daughter to the account type she currently had. Lloyds didnt answer my question about why 
being a closed account type would prevent Ms S being added. Nor did it reply about 
whether, in view of Miss Ss age, Ms S could be added as a representative, if this was what 
Miss S and Ms S wished.
So I looked on Lloyds website. It said:
Add someone to an existing bank account
As an existing customer you can turn your current account into a joint account by going into 
a branch.1. You will need to make an appointment in one of our branches to add the second 
person
2. Both of you will need to visit the branch and bring proof of identity [information on 
suitable identification] 
This didnt say anything about restrictions if it were a closed account type. Nor did it say that 
existing account benefits wouldnt be available and that the account holder would have to 
transfer to a different account type which had a higher fee.
So I said that in response to my provisional decision, Miss S and Ms S should confirm 
whether or not they wished to add Ms S to Miss Ss existing account. They should say 
whether they wish this to be as a joint account holder, or as a representative only. 
I also said that if Miss S and Ms S both still wanted one of these options, I intended to order 
Lloyds bank to arrange a branch visit for Miss S and Ms S at a time and place convenient to 
them, to complete the necessary forms for adding Ms S to her mothers account. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss Ss response
Miss S and her daughter Ms S said they would like Miss Ss account to become joint as 
previously planned, providing that this didnt change the way the account was at present, 
with no additional fees. They said that wanted Lloyds to honour Miss Ss request and confirm 
this to my mother in writing, and once theyd received this, theyd arrange an appointment to 
have it done.
Miss S and Ms S said that it had been very disappointing and stressful by Lloyds. They said 
Lloyds should have provided all phone recordings, because they said to customers All calls 
are recorded and monitored. Ms S also said that her mother Miss S would like an apology 
from Lloyds for all the stressful and inconvenience this has caused her.
Lloyds response
Lloyds said it was happy to agree to the additional compensation. 
Lloyds also said that it couldnt add Ms S to Miss Ss existing account, but said there might 
be other options available. It said it would be happy to arrange a branch meeting where the 
best options available could be discussed and offered, or if Miss S and Ms S preferred, they 
could ring a direct phone number to talk through all the available options.
I asked Miss S and Ms S for their comments on Lloyds response.  They said that before 
contacting this service, theyd booked an appointment with a personal banker at the Lloyds 
branch. Theyd been so disappointed, because their appointment didnt happen on time. 
Theyd had to wait at least 35  40 minutes, and could see that the Lloyds employee was 
more focused than what was on her personal mobile, than on the appointment. When they 
were eventually seen, it was when they were told theyd have to change Miss Ss entire bank 
account to a new product, paying a different fee and losing the benefits Miss S had had on 
her old account. 
Ms S explained that Miss S wanted the account to stay exactly how it is, without losing her 
benefits. She said surely there must be another way to get this.Ms S also said that speaking to Lloyds on the phone would be very draining. She said they 
felt Lloyds should come up with a solution to put her mother right, by sending a letter, and 
then if they felt the options were reasonable they could arrange another appointment. Ms S 
also said that she works full-time so would have to arrange a suitable date.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered, I still find that Lloyds should pay Miss S a total of £250 compensation 
for the poor service she received from the branch and head office.
Looking at Miss Ss wish to add her daughter to her account, Ive looked closely at how this 
can be taken forward to achieve as good a solution as possible for Miss S. I quite 
understand that they wouldnt want the stress of a phone call with Lloyds. And I recognise 
that Miss S had a bad experience at the previous branch, with significant delay after their 
appointment time, and feeling the adviser wasnt prioritizing their appointment at all. Im 
sympathetic to that, and can see that it wouldnt be a good idea for Miss S and Ms S to have 
to go back there.
Miss S has suggested that Lloyds put the options in writing for them to consider. But a 
conversation would mean that Lloyds could fully understand what they want  whereas the 
problem with a letter is that Lloyds could just list a number of different accounts but without 
providing any context. So they might not be any further forward. 
I note that Miss S lives in a city  so there may be other Lloyds branches not too far away, 
which would be convenient to her. So I think the best solution may be for Miss S and Ms S to 
liaise with Lloyds about a different, convenient, branch, where they can go at a time 
convenient to them, in order to discuss with a suitably qualified and helpful adviser, how best 
to add Ms S to her mother Miss Ss account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank plc to:
- pay Miss S a total of £250 compensation for the poor service which she received 
from the branch and head office in trying to resolve the eight fraudulent direct debit 
payments on her account.  As Lloyds has already paid £105, this leaves £145 still to 
pay;
- liaise with Miss S and Ms S about a different, convenient, branch, where they can go 
at a time convenient to them, in order to discuss with a suitably knowledgeable and 
helpful adviser, how best to add Ms S to her mother Miss Ss account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman