DRN-1841535
The complaint
Mrs D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc ('RBS') wrongly closed her personal 
bank account due to an overdrawn balance on her business account. 
Mrs D is being represented - all references to 'Mrs D' will include information provided by her 
representative.
What happened
Mrs D had personal and business accounts with RBS. Her overdraft facility relating to her 
business account expired on 1 April 2019 and wasn't renewed. Mrs D discussed the matter 
with RBS on 16 April, following which, she sent income and expenditure details. At the end 
of April RBS contacted Mrs D leaving a voice mail message but received no response. As 
the debt was still outstanding, an intention to default letter was issued at the end of May, 
followed by a formal demand letter sent in July. 
In respect of her personal accounts, RBS wrote to Mrs D on 31 May 2019 giving her 60-
days notice ('the notice') saying it no longer wished to provide her personal bank accounts. 
It said this was because of the way she operated her accounts. RBS gave Mrs D several 
options including the possibility of downgrading her current account to a basic account. As 
RBS received no response by the 60-day deadline, Mrs D's personal accounts were closed 
in late August 2019.
Mrs D complained to RBS saying that when the direct debits stopped from her current 
account, this meant she was late paying essential bills such as her mortgage. She said 
this caused her significant distress and inconvenience. Mrs D said she wasn't made aware 
of the current account closure before it happened.
RBS didn't uphold Mrs D's complaint. The bank said her current account was closed when 
she failed to respond to the issues affecting her business account. RBS said it decided to 
close all the accounts linked to the business account under its "one view" policy, after 
issuing all relevant notices. RBS did, however, recognise it provided poor customer service 
when Mrs D called to find out why her direct debits had stopped. It awarded her £85 for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused her. Unhappy with RBS's response, Mrs D brought 
her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She considered RBS had acted in line with its 
terms and conditions, giving Mrs D reasonable notice about its intended actions. Mrs D 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman's decision. In summary, she said:
She didn't receive the closure notice. In any event, even if she'd seen a copy, she 
didn't think it was clear as it was full of jargon - the other letters she received could've 
been clearer about the "one view" policy;
She did contact RBS about the overdraft, which has now been paid in full;
RBS should've exercised its right to use money from her other (personal) accounts to 
clear the debt owed in respect of business account;Whilst her personal accounts were closed, her business account remains open, 
which doesn't seem fair.
 
What Ive decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding the 
complaint.
Before I begin my reasoning, I think it's important to note that I'm very aware that I've 
summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and I've done so using my own 
words. I'm not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved - no 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I've focused on what I think are the key issues here. 
I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence.
The starting point for this complaint is that a bank is entitled to end its banking relationship 
with a customer by closing accounts they hold with it, just the same as a customer of a bank 
may decide to end the relationship themselves. That said, I'd expect a bank to exercise its 
commercial judgement, to close an account, legitimately. A bank adopts procedures for 
administrating an account, allowing access to it and for dealing with its closure. And RBS 
has such procedures in place, which to some extent are written into agreed terms and 
conditions. But it also has legal and regulatory obligations to observe when carrying out 
those procedures. So with this background in mind, I'll now consider Mrs D's complaint.
Looking at the notice dated 31 May, I'm satisfied that RBS gave Mrs D reasonable notice of 
its intention to close her personal accounts including the current account - it's the closure of 
this account which is the main reason for Mrs D's complaint. As set out in its terms, RBS 
must give 60-days notice of its intention to close accounts and in this case, I can see this 
was followed.
Mrs D says she didn't receive the notice - I've thought about this. I see the bank's records 
show that it was sent to the right address. And I haven't been told about any reasons why it 
might not have been received, such as problems with the post. I further note that Mrs D 
received several other letters sent around the same time from RBS. So I'm satisfied its 
most likely that the notice would've been delivered correctly. Mrs D says she would not have 
ignored such a serious letter. I've no reason to doubt what she says. But on the evidence 
I've seen, I'm satisfied the notice was sent and delivered to the correct address.
Mrs D says that even if she'd received the notice, she doesn't think this and other letters 
from RBS, were clear - among other things, she says its letters were full of jargon. But I'm 
satisfied the notice was clear. For example, it begins with a heading "We intend to close your 
account(s)" and lists each of Mrs D's personal accounts. I accept other letters about her 
business account didn't address the closure of her personal accounts. But I'm satisfied RBS 
provided Mrs D with the 60-day notice and that this was clear and unambiguous.
I take Mrs D's point that closing her current account caused her difficulties because her bills 
weren't paid on time. But as noted above, RBS did give notice of its intended actions. And 
this gave Mrs D a reasonable amount of time to make alternative arrangements, which 
could've included setting up a basic account with RBS. So while I understand the impact 
this had on Mrs D, I can't hold RBS responsible for the difficulties she experienced.In terms of the "one view" policy that Mrs D says is flawed - she also says she wasnt told 
that her business account could affect her personal accounts. But RBS are entitled to 
exercise its own commercial judgment in deciding whether it wanted to continue to provide 
Mrs D with banking facilities and on what basis. And in reaching this decision RBS was 
entitled to take into account Mrs D's overall financial position, including the way she 
managed her other accounts. I've seen nothing to suggest that RBS didn't reach its decision 
legitimately here and so don't think it did anything wrong.
I can see Mrs D did initially contact RBS shortly after the overdraft facility expired in respect 
of her business account. But I can't see that she contacted again after the end of April up 
until the point where the direct debits stopped in respect of her current account. I appreciate 
this was a difficult time for Mrs D. And note she did go on to repay the outstanding debt in 
full relating to the business account. But this was done after RBS had reached its decision 
and sent notice about closing her personal accounts. And I don't think Mrs D's subsequent 
actions meant RBS was then obliged to change its mind.
Mrs D thinks that if RBS exercised its right of set off by taking the money from her current 
account to pay off the debt owed in respect of her business account, this would've prevented 
her current account from closing. But as the funds in her current account were child benefits 
credits at the time, RBS decided not to use these funds to clear the business account debts. 
I consider this action was fair and in line with its regulatory obligations. In any event, I don't 
think, on balance, that exercising its right of set off would've impacted on its decision to close 
Mrs D's personal accounts.
I understand that Mrs D is frustrated by the business account remaining open whilst the 
personal accounts were closed. RBS said the overdraft was cleared so the business account 
wasn't in the end defaulted, so remains open. Unlike the other accounts, I can't see that 
RBS sent any notice to Mrs D of its intention to close her business account. But as Ive noted 
above, as a customer, Mrs D is entitled to close any accounts she no longer requires.
I can see Mrs D did experience poor customer service when she contacted RBS about her 
current account such as being passed from one department to another and at one point, 
being transferred to an outside line. I think the £85 paid to her by RBS for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused, is fair. And I won't be asking the bank to pay anything further.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mrs D will be disappointed with this outcome, I'm 
not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I'm not upholding the complaint and make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman