DRN-3709451
The complaint
Mr H complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
a transaction he said he didnt make.
What happened
At 7:51 am on 24 July 2021, there was a £999.99 faster payment debit from Mr Hs Halifax 
current account to an online cryptocurrency organisation.
A second attempted faster payment to the same beneficiary a few minutes later, for £2,954, 
was stopped by Halifaxs systems. Halifax blocked Mr Hs internet banking.
On 12 August, Mr H rang Halifax because he couldnt make payments. Halifax explained 
that it had blocked the account because of he attempted £2,954 payment. Mr H said he 
hadnt made either the £999.99 payment, or the attempted £2,954 payment, to the 
cryptocurrency organisation. 
Halifax didnt accept what Mr H had said. It said it could see that Mr Hs internet banking 
password had been changed before the £999.99 payment to C. Mr H said he hadnt 
changed it. But Halifaxs records showed that it had made a verification call to Mr Hs phone, 
to verify the password change. And it told Mr H that after the password had been changed, 
Mr H had used his registered mobile  device to access online banking. So it didnt agree that 
any third party fraudster had fraudulently accessed Mr Hs account without his knowledge.
Mr H didnt agree. He complained, but in its final response letter Halifax still didnt uphold Mr 
Hs complaint, and it refused to refund him.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said hed never heard of the 
cryptocurrency organisation, and he said that only people who knew what they were doing 
would invest £999.99 instead of £1,000. He said he didnt have the funds to invest because 
he had a large family and supported it with benefits. Mr H said that at the time of the £999.99 
disputed payment, he was driving the family across Europe. He said his wife didnt drive 
which he said proved he hadnt made the payment. Mr H also said that Halifaxs information 
said that whenever you make a payment to a new payee, Halifax would ring you to enter a 
four-digit code, but he hadnt received that. He said this proved he hadnt made the payment. 
He said that it says online you have to have an account with cryptocurrency organisation in 
order to make a deposit  which he didnt have. Mr H said he wanted a refund of the 
£999.99, an apology from Halifax, and compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He explained that:
- the IP address used to change Mr Hs password was the same as Mr H had used on 
22 and 23 July for undisputed transactions;
- before the disputed transaction, a different type of phone had been added to Mr Hs 
account, and this then made the disputed transaction. But a verification call had been 
made to Mr Hs existing phone, to verify the password change, and there had been 
text messages to tell him about the activity with his online banking. Mr Hs existing 
phone was then used to authorise the registration of the extra, different type, of 
phone;
- Mr H hadnt reported his existing phone lost or stolen before or at the time of the 
transaction.
The investigator also contacted the cryptocurrency organisation C. And it told him that Mr H 
had opened an account on the afternoon of 23 July, providing a copy of his driving licence as 
identification.
So the investigator thought it was most likely that Mr H had carried out the disputed 
transaction himself.
Mr H wasnt satisfied, and sent several long emails. In summary, he said:
- Halifax information said that whenever a customer made a payment to a new payee, 
Halifax would call and ask for a four-digit number verification. Mr H sent the call log 
for his first phone and said this didnt show the verification  so it must have been the 
newly-added phone which received it. He also hadnt received any texts;
- He asked why hed deposit £999.99 with the cryptocurrency organisation, not £1,000;
- Hed sent a data subject access request (DSAR) to Halifax and hadnt had a 
response. He said that would have shown whether or not hed received calls about 
the payment;
- He wanted the investigator to provide clear information about when the password 
was changed; when the new phone was added; when the cryptocurrency account 
had been opened; and phone call information from Halifax; 
- He said hed got a family member to open an account with the cryptocurrency 
organisation to see what the process was. He wanted evidence of everything 
supplied to that organisation for the account in his name, and said if it wasnt 
provided hed take legal action.
The investigator replied that the verification call from Halifax was automated, so there was 
no conversation. Hed seen the verification evidence but it was commercially sensitive so he 
couldnt pass it on. But the investigator provided timescales and dates for the two phones 
and the activities on them. The investigator also told Mr H that the cryptocurrency 
organisation had said that Mr Hs driving licence identification had been independently 
verified. 
Mr H sent another detailed email. In summary, he said:
- He had a legal right to information and hed twice submitted a DSAR to Halifax which 
it hadnt actioned;
- The verification call couldnt be evidence if it didnt show his voice, because anyone 
could have entered the numbers;
- He wanted the investigator to provide proof that hed purchased or signed a contract 
for the type of phone which had been added to the Halifax account;
- He said he wouldnt have bought an expensive new phone and then paid £999.99 
into cryptocurrency because he was going on holiday and a holiday for his family 
wasnt cheap;
- He said cryptocurrency wasnt regulated so there was nothing to stop the  
cryptocurrency organisation lying to the investigator about whether Mr H had an 
account;
- It would have been impossible for him to have used the same IP address to make the 
disputed transaction, because he was in Europe, which he could prove by the 
evidence hed sent in. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in July 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These say that the payment service provider (here, Halifax) must show the transaction was 
authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, the disputed £999.99 transaction was 
technically authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ive gone on to consider whether or not Mr H authorised the transaction. If he allowed 
someone to carry out the transaction on his behalf, that would count as Mr H authorising it.
I would also point out that this service takes its decisions on whats more likely than not to 
have happened. Mr H has said we should provide him with a great deal of very detailed 
information. Some of that I cant provide to him because its commercially sensitive 
information. But much of it is information which I dont need in order to take my decision 
about whats more likely than not to have happened. For example theres no need for me to 
have proof that Mr H bought and/or signed a contract for the particular type of phone which 
carried out the disputed transaction. What matters is that the evidence which I do have 
shows that on balance, its more likely than not that events happened in a certain way.
Who authorised the disputed transaction?
Before the disputed transaction, the password on Mr Hs internet banking was changed, and 
the new, extra, phone was added to his account. Ive looked carefully at these changes:
- An IP address is a unique geographical computer identifier. The password was 
changed from an IP address which was the same as Mr H used on 22 July for an 
undisputed £1,200 payment. So I consider its likely that Mr H changed the password 
himself.
- Halifax sent a message to Mr Hs existing phone at 12:06 on 22 July, which required 
him to enter a code before the new phone device could be added to the account and 
activated. This was an automated system, and didnt require a phone conversation. 
The new phone was activated. 
- Ive also seen evidence of text messages sent to Mr Hs existing phone number 
about these changes. Mr H didnt contact Halifax immediately to challenge these.
I recognise that Mr H disputes having received any of the text messages, and says he didnt 
enter the code to verify the changes. But Ive seen the computer evidence which shows 
these were sent, and verification took place.
Mr H said that his security details werent stored with any online retailer or service provider, 
and his phone was password protected. Mr H hadnt reported his phone lost or stolen. So its 
hard to see any way in which Mr Hs details can have been obtained by a third party 
fraudster.So I find that its most likely that it was Mr H himself who changed his internet banking 
password, and set up the extra phone, on his account on 22 July. The new password and 
the new, extra, phone, were used to make the disputed £999.99 transaction on 24 July. I 
consider the password change and the addition of another phone do not prove that the 
disputed payment was made by a third party fraudster.
Going on to the recipient cryptocurrency account, in his complaint form Mr H told us that hed 
never heard of the cryptocurrency organisation to which the disputed payment was made. 
But the evidence which that firm sent to us, in response to our investigators queries, shows 
that an account was set up in Mr Hs name, the day before the disputed transaction. For 
identification, that new account used Mr Hs driving licence as identification, and that driving 
licence was independently verified. Mr H, in response, said that there was nothing to stop 
the  cryptocurrency organisation lying to the investigator. But I cant see any reason why it 
would benefit the cryptocurrency organisation to do so.
Mr H has also said that he couldnt have made the disputed transaction because he was 
abroad on holiday. He provided screen shots of a journey which he said prove this. But Mr H 
could have given his Halifax account and security information to another person to carry out 
the disputed transaction for him. By the time Mr H left to go on holiday, there were two 
phones set up on Mr Hs Halifax account, and a cryptocurrency account in his name. For the 
reasons set out above, I consider its more likely than not that Mr H verified the phone and 
set up the cryptocurrency account. And if Mr H gave someone else the necessary security 
information to carry out the transaction, it counts as Mr H having authorised it. I think thats 
most likely to be what happened here. 
Mr Hs Halifax DSAR point
Mr H has said that hes twice requested a Data Subject Access Request from Halifax. That 
didnt form part of his complaint to Halifax, and isnt dealt with in Halifaxs final response 
letter. This service cant consider matters which a customer hasnt previously raised with 
their bank, so I cant consider Mr Hs complaint that he hasnt had a reply to his requests. 
But in any case, it seems that one reason Mr H wanted this was because he said the phone 
call for verification would prove it hadnt been he who verified the details. But that call was 
automated, so there wouldnt be any recording of either Mr Hs, or any third party fraudsters, 
voice on the call.
Summary
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr H authorised 
the disputed £999.99 transaction himself, and I dont require Halifax to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman