DRN-4014541
The complaint
Mrs O complains about how First Underwriting Limited handled a claim she made on her 
home insurance policy.
First Underwriting are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Much of this complaint 
concerns the actions of their appointed agents. As First Underwriting have accepted they are 
accountable for the actions of their agents, in my decision any reference to First 
Underwriting should be interpreted as also covering the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mrs O and First Underwriting. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs O had a home insurance policy with First Underwriting. In 2021, Mrs O made a claim 
against her policy following an escape of water. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, there were 
some delays with the claim. Mrs Os husband sadly passed away around this time.
Mrs O moved into alternative accommodation whilst remedial works were carried out. When 
the works were completed, Mrs O raised a complaint about poor workmanship. An 
independent surveyor later provided a report confirming that poor workmanship was 
responsible for issues with the remedial work.
First Underwriting agreed to have a look at the issues with the flooring, but as Mrs O was 
providing end of life care for her father (in her property), she was unwilling to move into 
alternative accommodation again. Sadly, Mrs O suffered the loss of her father shortly after 
this.
As the issues surrounding the repairs to her property remained unresolved, Mrs O then 
referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator upheld the 
complaint, but as First Underwriting didnt accept her recommendations, the complaint was 
referred to me for a decision.
I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings. As the deadline for 
responses has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs O acknowledged receiving my provisional decision. First Underwriting didnt respond by 
the deadline set. As no new evidence or responses have been received that would materially 
change the outcome of this complaint, I see no fair or reasonable reason to deviate from my 
provisional, intended findings. Ive included my relevant findings below. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. For example, both parties 
are already aware that these events have been going on for an extensive amount of time 
and Ive only summarised the key points of the background earlier in my decision.
My starting point in this complaint is whether or not First Underwriting have fairly indemnified 
Mrs O. Based on the independent surveyors report dated November 2021 Im satisfied they 
havent. I say this because the report highlighted issues with the quality of the first repair 
works. It also appears this point isnt in dispute as First Underwriting have made a number of 
offers to rectify things.
Given the time thats now passed, because the remedial works are still outstanding and First 
Underwriting havent (in my opinion) yet made a reasonable offer to settle the outstanding 
complaint. I direct First Underwriting to, dependant on Mrs Os preference, either:
arrange for their own contractors to carry out the repairs - subject to Mrs Os 
acceptance; or
cash settle the claim, based on the lowest of the three new quotes that Mrs O would 
need to obtain.
Of course, obtaining new quotes will be onerous for Mrs O, but its fair and appropriate that 
new quotes are provided given external factors (such as inflation) that will be relevant here.
Ive also kept in mind that Mrs O came to our Service to bring these matters to a close and 
given First Underwritings lack of communication since (with both her and our Service), Im 
reluctant to leave this claim open ended - given these events first started over 18 months 
ago.
How have First Underwriting treated Mrs O overall?
Our Investigator recommended that First Underwriting pay Mrs O £900 for the service they 
provided when handling her claim. I find this to be a fair, reasonable and proportionate 
amount  relative to the impact of their actions on her. This recognises that some of the 
overall time taken to progress this claim was caused by First Underwriting respecting       
Mrs Os wishes. Given everything she had going on in her personal life, this was the right 
thing to do.
But I cant ignore that First Underwriting havent really made any meaningful attempt to bring 
this claim to a close despite having had numerous opportunities - even after it was referred 
to our Service. They feel £400 would be a more appropriate amount, but I cant agree with 
this. In the specific circumstances of this complaint, the impact of their actions on Mrs O has 
been compounded due to this claim coinciding with the loss of two people very close to her.
Id also point out that First Underwriting are responsible for the actions of their appointed 
agents and contractors  so their point about how the compensation should be paid carries 
little weight.
Putting things right
I direct First Underwriting Limited to (dependant on Mrs Os preference), either:
arrange for their own contractors to carry out the repairs - subject to Mrs Os 
acceptance; or
cash settle the claim, based on the lowest of the three new quotes that Mrs O would need to obtain.
In addition, First Underwriting Limited need to pay Mrs O a total of £900 compensation in 
recognition of the impact of their actions on her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct First Underwriting Limited to follow 
my direction, as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman