DRN-3502210
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) withdrew money from the
wrong account, which led to him entering an unauthorised overdraft.
What happened
Mr L visited a branch of NatWest to make a withdrawal from his savings account, but the
cashier made the withdrawal from a current account he held with them instead, unbeknownst
to Mr L.
Mr L says he found out when he received a letter from NatWest, informing him that he was
overdrawn by nearly £3,000. Mr L says this resulted in him not being able to pay his other
bills. Mr L says he lost two days of pay to resolve the issue and he made a complaint to
NatWest.
NatWest upheld Mr Ls complaint. They originally credited Mr Ls account with £25
compensation for the error, but they later increased the amount by £75 to total £100
compensation. They also said that Mr L had one direct debit unpaid as a result of the error
and they had refunded the £2.15 unpaid transaction fee. NatWest also said they had waived
any accrued debit interest as a result of the error. They also said if Mr L wanted them to take
into consideration any loss of earnings, then he should provide them evidence of this.
Mr L provided this information to NatWest, but they concluded the £100 compensation was
fair. Mr L brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought the £100 compensation was reasonable, and in line with what he
would have awarded if NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. Our investigator said that
NatWest had put Mr L back in the position he should have been in if they did not make the
error. NatWest later increased the compensation by offering an extra £100 in addition to the
£100 they credited to his account, however, Mr L wanted an Ombudsman to review his
complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that NatWest made an error by debiting the money from the wrong
account. Ive considered the events of what happened here and what happened when
NatWest were made aware of the error they had made. NatWest have put Mr L in the same
position that he should have been in if no error had been made. I say this as they have
debited the money from the account the withdrawal should have been made from to the
account which was overdrawn as a result of their action. They have also refunded a £2.15
unpaid transaction fee and they have waived any accrued debit interest as a result of their
error.
But this alone wouldnt be enough. As the error would have also caused Mr L inconvenience
and distress, then its only right that NatWest should pay him compensation for the error they
made.
I have considered what Mr L has said about him losing two days of pay due to this issue and
that he should be paid for two days of lost earnings. But Im not persuaded this is
proportionate. I say this as Mr L chose to visit the branch originally. So although he says the
job he was working on was cancelled as he couldnt let in workmen and this happened on
two separate occasions, there would never be a guarantee how long it would take to process
the original transaction as there could be other factors such as queues, a shortage of staff
etc which may delay a transaction being processed.
When Mr L went into the branch to resolve this, there were other alternative channels which
Mr L could have used to rectify this issue, which may have resulted him resolving this
outside of his working hours or without needing to go into a branch. NatWest have confirmed
that Mr L could have either rang the branch to resolve the issue, rang telephone banking,
rang customer services or used live chat/secured messaging. They confirmed that their
telephone banking service is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
So I cant say that it would be proportionate for NatWest to pay Mr L for two days of lost
wages if he needed to let workmen in, as he couldve resolved the error without visiting the
branch and he would have saved on the time going to and from the branch, including
parking. Our service also doesnt generally award compensation based on someones daily
earnings. We wouldnt usually value one persons time as worth more than another persons
time. Instead, we consider the overall impact an error had on someone.
Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
So Ive considered if the £100 Mr L was paid recognises the impact NatWests mistake had
on Mr L. Im not satisfied it does and Ill explain why. Mr L has said he only realised what
happened when he received a letter explaining he was overdrawn by nearly £3,000. This
would have been distressing to receive. He was then inconvenienced by having to contact
NatWest to find out what happened and to resolve their error. And then he had to take
actions to rectify the issue. Im persuaded that Mr L should be paid an extra £100 here (in
line with NatWests increased offer), which would total £200 in compensation for the error
caused by NatWest, by them debiting the money from the wrong account. So it follows I
intend to ask NatWest to put things right.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NatWest responded but they asked a procedural question and they did not give me 
any further information to consider. Mr L did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask NatWest to pay Mr L an extra £100 (to total 
£200 compensation) for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome 
for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr L an extra £100 (to 
total £200 compensation) for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman