DRN-2331928
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt accept a payment to their 
mortgage from a third party and are continuing to hold them liable for the remaining 
outstanding balance.
What happened
In 2012 Mrs and Mr C took out an interest only mortgage with HSBC. The mortgage was due 
to be repaid in April 2017.
In January 2017 a third party (who Ill refer to as A), which appears to have been managing 
some money on behalf of Mrs and Mr C, contacted HSBC on their behalf asking it to 
consider an extension to the mortgage term. A provided a letter of authority from Mrs and Mr 
C confirming it was acting for them. HSBC replied and explained that Mrs and Mr C would 
have to speak to one of its mortgage advisors to discuss the options available to them.
In March 2017 HSBC agreed a temporary extension of the mortgage with repayment of the 
capital balance then due in April 2019. Monthly interest only repayments were still required 
during the extended term and the loan remained subject to the mortgage terms and 
conditions.
In March 2019 Mrs and Mr C requested a redemption statement for the mortgage. The 
amount due to be repaid was just over £500,000. On 29 March 2019 a payment of £235,000 
was sent to HSBC by A. This was on behalf of Mrs and Mr C. Mrs and Mrs C paid the 
remainder of the balance themselves.
HSBC returned the payment of £235,000 to A. It didnt contact Mrs and Mr C or A in advance 
to discuss this.
Mrs and Mr C later asked for confirmation that the mortgage had been repaid in full. HSBC 
then explained that the payment had been returned. 
Mrs and Mr C complained to HSBC about its actions. They said HSBC should not have 
returned the funds and that A had not received them back. As a result, they asked HSBC to 
confirm that they would no longer be held liable for the balance and the charge against their 
property would be released, as they felt theyd repaid the mortgage in full.
HSBC said it hadnt made a mistake by returning the funds to A as it said it didnt have 
authority to accept the payment from it. And as there was an outstanding balance on the 
mortgage it said Mrs and Mr C would continue to be liable for this. But it did acknowledge the 
funds shouldve been returned to A quicker than they were. In light of this it made a payment 
of £150 to Mrs and Mr C for the inconvenience caused.
Mrs and Mr C did not accept this offer and asked our service to look into the complaint. 
HSBC has continued to collect monthly interest only payments while this has been ongoing.
One of our investigators considered matters and thought the complaint should be upheld. He 
said that the information provided indicated that HSBC did have authority to interact with A 
and that it had done so previously, in particular in 2017 when agreeing the extension to the 
term. So, he felt HSBC was wrong to return the payment made in March 2019 and should at 
least have spoken to Mrs and Mr C first. And if the payment hadnt been returned the 
mortgage wouldve been redeemed. 
He was satisfied from the evidence hed seen that the money had been returned to A. So, he 
didnt think it was fair to require HSBC to write off the principle balance. But to put things 
right he recommended that HSBC refund all interest payments Mrs and Mr C had made 
since 29 March 2019, when the mortgage would otherwise have been redeemed, with 8% 
interest applied from the date the payments were made to the point they are refunded.
He also thought any interest, charges or fees accrued since 29 March 2019 that had not yet 
been charged should be waived. And he said HSBC should not apply interest or charges for 
a period of 180 days to allow Mrs and Mr C to discuss matters further with A and arrange the 
return of the funds and repayment of the mortgage. 
Finally, he felt HSBC should pay a further £300 for the trouble and upset caused  in 
addition to the £150 itd paid previously.
HSBC accepted the investigators opinion in September 2020. 
Mrs and Mr C did not. They said when they first spoke to HSBC it had acknowledged 
receiving the money, so they felt this meant they had repaid their mortgage and it was now 
HSBCs responsibility to liaise with A and recover it. They said call recordings would confirm 
this. They also added that A had indicated it agreed with them, so was only willing to speak 
to HSBC rather than Mrs and Mr C. And they added that they didnt feel the compensation 
was enough for the upset and disruption caused.
The investigator said it wasnt in dispute that HSBC had received and returned the money. 
But he was satisfied the money had gone back to A and HSBC could not ask it directly for 
the amount to be paid again so this was now a matter between Mrs and Mr C and A. As a 
result, he still felt what hed recommended, and HSBC had agreed to, was a fair way to 
resolve matters.
Mrs and Mr C did not agree. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that HSBC received a payment of £235,000 from A on 29 March 2019. 
HSBC confirms it did receive this payment and Ive seen account statements showing the payment to it. And Im satisfied that the intention of this payment appears to have been for it 
to be applied to Mrs and Mr Cs mortgage. The money was however not credited to the 
mortgage. 
We have been provided with evidence that the money was sent back to As bank by HSBC. 
And Im satisfied that it was. Weve also been provided more recently with evidence from As 
bank, indicating this was returned to A on 23 April 2019.
So, Im satisfied that the funds werent credited to the mortgage, HSBC no longer has these 
funds, and the mortgage hasnt been redeemed.
The first thing I need to consider is whether HSBC made any errors when returning the 
funds.
Ive seen a copy of a letter of authority received by HSBC in January 2017. This was signed 
by Mrs and Mr C and gave HSBC permission to share information about their mortgage 
account with A. So, I think HSBC did have authority to discuss the account with A. And I can 
see that HSBC wrote to A in 2017 in relation to the request for an extension to the mortgage 
term. So, I think HSBC had clearly accepted A had authority to discuss the account. And, if it 
had concerns, this really was its opportunity to raise them, and it didnt.
From what Ive seen the money was returned by HSBC without it attempting to make contact 
with Mrs and Mr C or A to discuss this. In the circumstances I dont think this was fair. This 
was a payment for a significant amount of money towards a mortgage  an important 
financial commitment. And that mortgage was coming to the end of its term, so this payment 
was clearly intended to form part of the redemption of that mortgage. So, in the 
circumstances I think it wouldve been appropriate for HSBC to have attempted to contact 
Mrs and Mr C or A or both, to discuss the payment.
HSBC has said that it couldnt accept the payment from A, the third party, as it is not a 
solicitor acting for Mrs and Mr C. That may well be HSBCs process  which it is entitled to 
decide, and I cant require it to change. But I think if it had made contact with Mrs and Mr C 
and A before returning the funds, its likely the issue couldve been resolved at the time and 
the mortgage still redeemed. And so overall, I think HSBC has made errors in how it handled 
the payment that forms the basis of this complaint.  
I also think HSBC could have done more sooner to help Mrs and Mr C in locating the funds. 
HSBC said the money had been returned to A. But Mrs and Mr C provided it with 
correspondence from A disputing this. As Ive said weve been provided evidence that the 
funds were returned to As bank. And Ive seen evidence from As bank that they were 
returned to A. But it was only recently, after our involvement that this information was made 
available. Given the amount of money involved I think it wouldve been reasonable for HSBC 
to offer more assistance in tracing the funds when Mrs and Mr C first complained.
So, as I think HSBC has made errors, what is left for me to decide is what would be a fair 
and reasonable way to put things right.
Mrs and Mr C have said that they think they should be released from the mortgage and that 
HSBC should recover the money it returned as HSBC received the funds and confirmed this 
in a call with them. As Ive said, it isnt in dispute the funds were sent to HSBC and were temporarily in its 
possession. And if HSBC had contacted the parties involved at the time, I think the issues 
with the payment, and where it was received from, couldve been addressed and the 
mortgage likely redeemed. So, the funds wouldve been paid to HSBC, assigned to the 
mortgage, the borrowing cleared, and funds would no longer be held by A. But as it stands 
this isnt what has happened. The mortgage was not redeemed. And Mrs and Mr C have not 
repaid all of the money they borrowed. 
Evidence has been provided that the payment was returned to A  and Im satisfied that it 
was. As this money was being used to repay the mortgage, I can only assume it belonged, 
and still does belong, to Mrs and Mr C, and was being held by A on their behalf.
HSBC has no contractual relationship with A. So, I dont think it can request a further 
repayment of the money from A directly. 
Taking all of this into account, as the mortgage has not been repaid in full, the missing funds 
have been located and HSBC is unable to reasonably request payment directly from the 
party holding them, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask HSBC to release Mrs and Mr C 
from the mortgage. There is no guarantee HSBC would be able to recover the funds. And if it 
wrote the outstanding balance off there is the possibility that Mrs and Mr C could benefit 
twice from them. 
Ultimately Mrs and Mr C borrowed money from HSBC. And while it mayve been their 
intention to do so, this borrowing has not been repaid. Although HSBC made mistakes in its 
handling of this matter, I dont think this, or HSBC acknowledging initial receipt of the 
payment, is enough to say that Mrs and Mr C are no longer required to repay the money 
theyve borrowed and had the benefit of. So, I think its reasonable that HSBC continue to 
hold Mrs and Mr C liable until the amount is repaid.
Mrs and Mr C have indicated that they are now having difficulty liaising with A about these 
funds. While Im sorry to hear about this, much like HSBC has no direct authority to request 
money from A, our service has no jurisdiction over it. So, the recovery of these funds, which I 
again understand were intended to benefit Mrs and Mr C, is a civil matter between them and 
A.
While I dont think the outstanding balance should be written off, like our investigator I do 
think that additional costs since the problems with the payment should be waived. Ive said 
already that I think without these issues and errors by HSBC the mortgage wouldve likely 
been redeemed. So, Mrs and Mr C wouldnt have incurred any further interest, charges or 
fees in respect of the mortgage. And their monthly repayments wouldve stopped. But 
instead theyve had to continue to make monthly repayments in respect of interest accrued. I 
think itd be reasonable for HSBC to refund all of these additional repayments to Mrs and 
Mr C. I also think itd be fair for HSBC to pay interest on these amounts from the point Mrs 
and Mr C paid them until the refunds are completed. And I think any charges, fees or interest 
accrued but not yet applied should be waived. Im pleased to see, from its response to our 
investigator, that HSBC has indicated it would agree to this recommendation.
I also think itd be reasonable for HSBC to provide Mrs and Mr C the opportunity to resolve 
this matter, and repay the borrowing, in a reasonable timeframe without incurring any further 
interest or charges. As Ive said, the return of the funds is a civil matter between them and A. 
But Im conscious there seems to be some dispute between the parties. Our investigator 
recommended a six-month grace period. And in the circumstances, I agree that this would 
be reasonable. If, after that time, balance has still not been repaid however, I think itd be 
reasonable for HSBC to start applying contractual interest and charges again until the debt is 
repaid.Lastly, I think this matter is likely to have caused Mrs and Mr C distress. A mortgage is a 
significant financial commitment, and it not being repaid comes with potentially severe 
consequences. To learn that a balance was outstanding when they thought the mortgage 
had been repaid would no doubt have been very upsetting. And as Ive said I think HSBC 
couldve done more to assist at the time  although I am conscious it has been clear from 
early on that the funds were returned, and that part of the issue here seems to be between 
Mrs and Mr C and A.
Mrs and Mr C have said that the mortgage remaining outstanding has disrupted their plans  
including potentially selling their property  which may mean they dont achieve the sale 
price in the future that they mightve done. But while I dont doubt that this was upsetting, I 
havent seen anything to indicate they were prevented from marketing their property while 
this matter was ongoing. So, while they mayve needed to change their plans, I dont think I 
can reasonably say HSBC is responsible for this perceived loss, which at present is 
hypothetical.
Our investigator thought it would be reasonable for HSBC to pay a further £300 for the upset 
caused, in addition to the £150 it had already paid. Taking everything into account, I think 
this would be fair.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I uphold this complaint.
To put things right HSBC UK Bank Plc should;
Refund all monthly repayments made by Mrs and Mr C to the mortgage from 29 
March 2019 to present and pay 8% interest on these amounts from the date the 
payments were made until the date the refund is completed.
Waive any interest, charges or fees accrued but not yet charged since 29 March 
2019.
Ensure no interest or charges are applied to the outstanding balance for a period of 
six months to allow Mrs and Mr C to resolve matters and make repayment in full. This 
six-month period should start from the date acceptance of this decision is received  
in the event Mrs and Mr C accept my decision.
Pay Mrs and Mr C £300 for the trouble and upset caused to them. This is in addition 
to the £150 HSBC paid previously.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman