DRN-3661911
The complaint
Miss X complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) failed to action a chargeback in time.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss X, but I agree with the investigators opinion.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Miss X wanted Monzo to refund two transactions she completed but subsequently wished to 
dispute. One was paid on 30 April 2021 and the other on 2 May 2021.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Monzo, its administered by Mastercard and 
they set the rules. Monzo didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id expect them to do 
so when there was evidence a payment should have been refunded by a merchant.
The rules set by Mastercard say that a claim must be submitted within 120 days of the 
transaction date and that meant Monzo needed to submit chargebacks before 28 and 30 
August 2021 respectively. 
But in order for them to submit chargebacks I think it was fair for them to ask for information 
from Miss X to demonstrate she had already raised the issue with the merchant. I can see 
they asked for that information on several occasions, but I cant see it was supplied by Miss 
X until 20 August 2021. At that point there was very little time left for Monzo to submit the 
chargeback and I dont think it would therefore be fair to suggest they were at fault for the 
claim not being submitted on time.
Monzo have offered Miss X £50 to compensate her for the delay in responding to her after 
she submitted evidence she had complained to the merchant and also because they didnt 
refer to that delay in their final response to Miss X. I think, in the circumstances, thats fair 
and Im not asking them to take any further action.
 
Putting things right
Monzo will need to pay Miss X £50 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Monzo Bank Ltd to 
pay Miss X £50 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman