DRN-3686538
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Bank of Ireland (UK) PLC incorrectly recorded adverse 
information on his credit file and is unhappy with the service it provided in relation to his 
current account. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr Gs current account was closed as part of a closure campaign. But on 18 
February 2021, Mr G received a text message advising that his account was overdrawn by 
£1.00. So, he contacted Bank of Ireland to query this. Mr G was told the error had occurred 
due to a system failure, so the fee would be refunded. He was assured this error wouldnt 
impact his credit file. Mr G asked to close the account but he was told he would need to put 
his request in writing.
Mr G says he wrote to his branch in March 2021 as advised to request that his account was 
closed. As he didnt receive any further updates or text messages, he assumed his request 
had been granted and there were no further issues.
However, on 12 March 2021 and 18 March 2021 two further £1.00 statement fees were 
charged and Bank of Ireland reported that the account was overdrawn to credit reference 
agencies. 
Mr G applied for a home improvement loan in September 2021. But the rates he was offered 
werent as he expected, and this caused him some concern. He says his credit report 
showed a decrease in score from 929 (in July 2021) to 714 (in September 2021). But by 
December 2021 Mr G says this declined further and his credit score was 558 and showing 
as poor. So, Mr G contacted Bank of Ireland to raise a complaint.
Mr G explained to Bank of Ireland how this had prevented him from getting competitive 
rates, which affected his future plans, which in turn had a negative impact on his relationship 
and his mental health. He explained that during this period of time he had become suicidal. 
And while he had started receiving support it still had a huge impact on him. Therefore, he 
wanted £10,000 compensation.
Bank of Ireland looked into the complaint and confirmed that due to a systems error it failed 
to close his account in 2019 and 2021. As a result, it incorrectly charged Mr G for statements 
during this time which resulted in adverse data being reported to credit reference agencies. 
However, in its Final Response Letter dated 7 February 2022, it apologised for the error, 
confirmed it had contacted the Credit Reference Agencies and removed the historical 
adverse information that was being reported in regard to this issue. It confirmed that the 
system error was being investigated and it wasnt obliged to divulge any further information 
in regard to that. It offered Mr G £500 for any upset it had caused but felt this was 
proportionate as while Mr G was impacted by this, he wasnt defaulted. And while Mr G felt 
the banks errors had impacted his personal life, Bank of Ireland felt it couldnt be held 
responsible for this.
Mr G remained unhappy, so his complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Mr Gs complaint and she felt a further £250 was warranted based on Mr Gs 
specific circumstances. Making the total compensation, £750. She explained to Mr G that 
our service is allowed to make modest awards and she felt this was fair. Mr G remained 
unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why. But firstly, I would like to highlight that I have taken into account Mr Gs very 
detailed submissions about what happened at the time and how it impacted him. I hope he 
doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I dont reply to every point he has made. The purpose of 
my decision is to explain my findings on the issue I consider to be key in this complaint.
I would also like to point out that I really do appreciate the impact this issue has had on      
Mr G. And I am so sorry to hear about the challenges Mr G has faced, I understand this must 
have been a very difficult time for him. But in reaching my decision in this case, I have to put 
aside my natural feelings of empathy and consider the case impartially and fairly, based on 
the available evidence. And while our service is able to make compensation awards, the 
awards we make our modest, fair and reasonable.
It's not in dispute that Bank of Ireland made an error. It has apologised for the error, 
explained how the error occurred (albeit not in as much detail as Mr G would like) contacted 
credit reference agencies to notify it of its error and offered Mr G £500 for the upset it 
caused. And while I dont think the compensation offered was enough (based on the 
circumstances of this complaint) I do think in other similar circumstances it would be in line 
with what I would award. However, it is important to remember we consider each complaint 
independently and on its own merits.
Therefore, I have gone on to assess the impact of Bank of Irelands actions on Mr G. Mr G 
thought his account had closed in 2019. So, it would have come as a shock for him to 
receive a text message in 2021 notifying him he was overdrawn. While this issue was quickly 
resolved it did result in some inconvenience to Mr G.
After Mr G wrote to Bank of Ireland in March 2021 to request it closed his account, he didnt 
receive any further notifications, so he assumed the issue had been resolved. However, in 
reality the account was actually overdrawn, statement fees continued to be charged and the 
status of the account continued to be reported to credit reference agencies. I cant be certain 
if this was an error on Bank of Irelands part or an error with the postal service, but Mr G 
didnt receive any further contact, but given that Mr G was notified in February 2021, I think 
Bank of Ireland could have done more to make Mr G aware further issues had occurred. 
Again, I have taken this into account when considering a compensation award.
Between July 2021 and September 2021 Mr G says his credit score had been seriously 
impacted by Bank of Irelands error, which affected him obtaining credit which impacted his 
relationship, living conditions and mental health. While I accept that Bank of Irelands error 
would have impacted Mr Gs credit file, I cant be certain that this and this alone impacted 
the interest rates Mr G was offered on the loan he applied for to assist with his home 
improvements. I say this because all lenders have their own criteria which they will use to 
assess eligibility and while credit reports are taken into consideration there is a lot of other 
factors which will also be considered. I havent seen any evidence to show higher interest 
rates were offered based solely on the information reported by Bank of Ireland. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to hold Bank of Ireland solely responsible for this.
However, the banks error had impacted Mr G for 10 months (albeit without him knowing) and 
adverse information was being recorded on his credit file during this period of time. So, while 
Mr G may not have been overtly aware the Bank of Ireland was reporting adverse 
information on his credit file, he was aware something had changed with his financial 
position. And having considered his comments about his very difficult circumstances and his 
mental health at the time, I appreciate finding out that the Bank had reported this information 
incorrectly for that long would have compounded his vulnerability. And while I cant hold 
Bank of Ireland responsible for this (as it wasnt aware) I accept that in these particular 
circumstances, its error had a bigger impact on Mr G. 
Mr G is unhappy with the award recommended by our investigator; however, I feel it is fair. I 
say this because, as I mentioned above, our awards are modest and while I dont think the 
Banks offer is unfair for the events that occurred, I do think Mr Gs circumstances meant that 
the impact the error had on him was greater. While I dont think its fair to say this alone 
impacted his mental health, I can see how it would have been a contributing factor. As such, 
Im satisfied that £750 recognises the impact the issue had on Mr G. 
I understand Mr G would like further clarification on what caused the technical issue with the 
banks systems, but Bank of Ireland are not required to provide this. The Bank has confirmed 
it has put measures in place to prevent this from happening again. As such, I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
Putting things right
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should pay Mr G £750 for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay 
Mr G £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman