DRN-3929870
The complaint
Mrs P complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) unfairly cancelled her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022, Mrs P took out a comprehensive motor insurance policy with UKI with an 
effective start date of 16 November 2022.  A discount was applied to the policy with the 
requirement that Mrs P shared her driving data through UKIs Drivesure App (App). Mrs P 
said she received a letter dated 23 November 2022 in mid-December 2022 that said her 
insurance would be cancelled. Mrs P said she called UKI straight away only to find theyd 
already cancelled her insurance policy. She said this meant shed been driving her car 
without any insurance cover from 16 November 2022. Mrs P complained to UKI. 
UKI said Mrs P was sent a welcome email on 18 October 2022. The email explained that a 
condition of the policy was that Mrs P had to download and register the App within seven 
days. The email gave instructions as to how Mrs P could do this. And said that if this wasnt 
done Mrs Ps policy may be cancelled. As Mrs P hadnt registered an account on the App 
within the seven days, UKI said they sent her a reminder email on 23 October 2022, again 
explaining her policy could be cancelled. They said they also sent a notification of 
cancellation letter, 23 November 2022 that explained Mrs P could prevent her policy from 
being cancelled by activating the App and calling UKI before 8 December 2022. As Mrs P 
didnt download and activate the App or call UKI before this date her policy was cancelled. 
Mrs P explained she didnt receive the letter until mid-December 2022 because of the postal 
strikes and feels UKI should have done more to contact her before cancelling her policy. She 
referred her complaint to us.
Our Investigator considered what Mrs P and UKI said and felt UKI had acted fairly so he
didnt ask UKI to do anything more. Mrs P disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision but having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the policy documents, emails and letters sent by UKI about Mrs Ps 
insurance policy and the App. 
I can see from Mrs Ps policy documents that it says:
What happens next :
We'll send your DriveSure instructions and terms and conditions in the next few days. You'll 
need to follow the instructions, every driver will need to download our DriveSure app from 
their app store and start using the app to track their journeys. You'll be able to use the app to 
see how you've driven and get your driving score. If you don't use it, we reserve the right to 
cancel your policy. This may affect your ability to purchase insurance in the future.
I can see the welcome email was sent to Mrs P on 18 October 2022, I think it was clear that 
she was required to download and activate the App as a condition of her policy. And that the 
failure to do so could result in her policy being cancelled. UKI has also shown that Mrs P 
was sent a reminder email about this on 23 October 2022. 
I can understand Mrs P thinking that as the policy hadnt yet taken effect, she could either 
download and activate the App within seven days of the emails or seven days of the policy 
start date  16 November 2022. But whichever option she considered I think Mrs P would 
have been aware from her policy documents or emails that she needed to download the 
App.
Mrs Ps policy, like most other motor insurance policies, allows UKI to cancel her policy 
giving seven days notice. It states:
We can cancel the policy at any time if we have a valid reason. If we have to do this, well 
give you at least 7 days notice. Well send our cancellation notice to the latest address we 
have for you.
And the policy goes on to give examples of a valid reason:
Well only cancel the policy if we have valid reasons for doing so. For example: If youve 
failed to co-operate with us, or send us information or documentation as described in your 
policy, and that has affected our ability to process your claim, or deal with your policy.
As Mrs P hadnt downloaded or activated the App UKI sent her a cancellation notice dated 
23 November 2022 in the post. The notification said that Mrs Ps policy would be cancelled  
if she hadnt downloaded the App or contacted them before 8 December 2022.  I think UKI 
acted reasonably as they gave Mrs P an extension to the timeframe for the App to be 
downloaded. And acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
I can understand Mrs Ps frustration as she says she didnt receive the letter until after 8 
December 2022 because of the postal strikes. And she didnt see the emails as they went 
into her spam inbox. But UKI has shown theyve sent the letters to Mrs Ps correct address. 
And the emails were sent to the same email address Mrs P has given to us. So, I cant hold 
UKI responsible for any issues with the postal system or for Mrs P not reading the emails 
sent to her. And Mrs Ps policy documents also made clear the need for her to download the 
App, and that UKI reserved the right to cancel the policy if she didnt.
I think UKI has been clear as to the need for the App to be downloaded and activated as a 
requirement of Mrs Ps insurance policy. And the time Mrs P had to download and activate 
the App. Even if Mrs P interpreted seven days from the effective date of her policy, as UKI 
didnt cancel her insurance policy until 8 December 2022, Mrs P had 22 days in which I think 
shed have known she needed to download the App.
So I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably and Mrs Ps policy was cancelled within its 
terms and conditions. I can see UKI gave the amount of notice wed expect them to. As I 
think Mrs Ps policy was cancelled fairly, and this is what has been recorded, Im unable to say UKI should amend this record. UKI has also reimbursed Mrs P the payment taken that 
covered from 16 November 2022 up to 8 December 2022.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman