DRN-3155578
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) hasnt refunded him the money he lost after 
falling victim to an authorised push payment (APP), social media, investment scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary, Mr A 
fell victim to a social media investment scam. 
In early April 2021, Mr A was in hospital. While in hospital, Mr A found a social media 
account of someone claiming to be involved in trading. This person claimed they generated 
high returns for their clients, and they took a 20% commission having a 90% success rate.
Mr A says the person had a lot of followers (13,000) and there seemed to be success stories 
posted on the social media profile. Mr A got in touch with the person and then, through an 
alternative social media platform, enquired about investing. Unfortunately all of this had been 
set up by a fraudster and Mr A was not dealing with a genuine party.
Mr A was told that he could invest upwards of £600 and that such an amount would
generate a guaranteed minimum return of £3,000 within one to four hours and was payable 
the same day. And, as a first-time trader, if the trade collapsed, Mr A would be entitled to 
receive a full refund.
Mr A asked some questions, such as whether the supposed trader was an affiliate of a 
company whom Ill refer to as Company E (which was shown on the images on the social 
media platform), how long had they worked for that company, and whether it was FCA 
regulated. The scammer confirmed they did work for Company E and had been working for 
two years and that it was FCA regulated. 
Mr A also asked if he would receive any agreement. The scammer advised they had been 
trading for so long they had stopped doing agreements, explaining that clients get paid out 
quickly and were paid before any agreements could be read and signed.
Mr A went on to make a payment of £800 on the evening of 5 April 2021 via a bank transfer 
from his Monzo account to the account details provided by the fraudster. Mr A asked the 
scammer why he was paying a personal account with the scammer advising that it was the 
managers personal account due to Covid and working from home, and that it took too long 
to access the company accounts.
The scammer advised Mr A that they had invested £600 and that it had already started going 
up, with the scammer then investing the remaining £200. Within hours the scammer 
advised that Mr As investment was returning nearly £6,000. The scammer advised that 
when the markets had closed the trade was on £9,358 and they would continue with the 
trade at 09:00am the following day.
The next morning, the scammer got in touch to say that Mr As trade was successful and had 
gone up to nearly £16,000. The scammer advised that commission / release fee for the 
funds was £3,183.80. Ultimately Mr A went on to make the payment to the scammer. 
Having made the payment, Mr A didnt hear from the scammer. Mr A contacted Monzo to 
report what had happened the following day. Monzo contacted the bank the money had 
been sent to, but unfortunately no funds remained and so there was nothing to return to 
Mr A.
Monzo also considered whether Mr A was due a refund. Monzo considered the case under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). This is a voluntary code and 
while Monzo has not signed up to it, it has agreed to abide by the principles of the CRM 
Code. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Monzo says one of the exceptions in the CRM Code applies, in that it believes Mr A didnt 
have a reasonable basis for believing the purpose of his payments was legitimate. And so it 
said it wouldnt refund him under the CRM Code.
Mr A was unhappy with Monzos response and so brought his complaint to this service.
One of our Investigators considered it but said that Monzo had acted fairly and reasonably.
She agreed that Mr A had acted without a reasonable basis for belief and so Monzo had
fairly declined his claim under the CRM Code.
She also discussed Mr As situation at the time of making the payments, as he was in 
hospital. The Investigator sympathised with Mr A, but still concluded that Mr A could 
reasonably have done more to ensure it was a legitimate investment. 
Mr A didnt accept the Investigators recommendations and so the complaint has been
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but Im not upholding his complaint. I know hes been the
victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant impact on
him financially, mentally, and emotionally. But I dont believe Monzo has acted unfairly or
unreasonably in its answering of the complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr A authorised the payments that are the subject of this
complaint, even though he did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly
speaking, under the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations
2017, he would normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the Lending
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which
Monzo has agreed to abide by the principles of.Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr A. The circumstances where a firm may choose not
to reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their
requisite level of care, as set out in the CRM Code.
One such circumstance  and the one particularly highlighted by Monzo  might be when it
can be demonstrated that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable
basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points, all of the circumstances of the case should be taken account of,
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Ive thought carefully about whether this exception to reimbursement applies in Mr As
case. And so I must ask if he made the payments he did whilst having a reasonable basis
for belief that all was genuine. Im afraid I dont find thats the case.
Having looked at the images of the social media account, I find it should have given Mr A 
cause for concern about its legitimacy. The supposed trader posted pictures seemingly of 
their bank accounts and cryptocurrency accounts showing vast amounts of sums and having 
made customers nearly 10 to 12 times profit in short spaces of time. 
This leads me on to the investment and the returns promised. I find that the offering itself 
was too good to be true from the outset and to the extent that it ought to have raised 
significant doubt on Mr As part. The suggestion that £800 could be turned into a minimum 
guaranteed return of £3,000 doesnt sound feasible, particularly when the timeframe given 
was one of only a few hours. And I think it was also questionable that returns were 
guaranteed, as if the investment carried no element of risk.
These features ought to have led to Mr A questioning the proposed opportunity and
checks ought to have been carried out. But it doesnt appear any actual checks were carried 
out with Mr A asking some questions, but seemingly simply taking the scammers word or 
answers at face value. 
Mr A did ask some questions of the scammer such as who they worked for, how long they 
had worked there and whether Company E was FCA regulated. However I am mindful that if 
Mr A was aware of companies being FCA regulated, then had he conducted a search of 
Company E at the time on the FCA website, he would have seen the were warnings advising 
that fraudsters were impersonating the Company and had been for some time. 
Mr A also asked for an agreement from the scammer  but was told that they had been 
trading for so long, and the profits were generated so quickly, that they no longer continued 
with agreements. In essence, there wasnt anything formal that Mr A received other than 
communication through a social media platform. This to my mind was another flag that 
should have given Mr A cause for concern.I can see that the account details given to Mr A are in the name of an individual. Mr A was 
told that it was the managers personal account as a result of Covid and working from home 
and that it took too long to access the investment companies account. This doesnt sound 
realistic or something that any genuine investment firm would do, and I believe its fair and 
reasonable to say this was another warning sign.
There are other elements of the proposition that also stand out as suspicious. The fact that
all investments seemed to be being managed through a social media platform; the way
messages were written by the scammer, in terms of professionalism; and that other clients 
profits seem to have been displayed / shared online are all concerning features.
I appreciate the social media platform may have had followers and what looked like success
stories. But given the nature of the platform used, it wasnt really possible for Mr A to verify
what he was seeing. I dont find it was reasonable to rely on these features to judge the 
investment as genuine, at least not in the face of the other concerning elements present.
In the communication between Mr A and the scammer, Mr A said he also traded. Given Mr A 
was aware of and asked about whether Company E was FCA regulated, it is reasonable to 
suggest that Mr A could have carried out more checks than he did. But even if Mr A didnt 
have experience in investing, it doesnt remove the need to carry out reasonable checks and 
to have a reasonable basis for belief before making a payment.
Much of my reasoning here really applies to the first payment, though much does carry
through to the second payment too. But its also relevant for me to say that I dont
find a reasonable basis for belief is established for the second payment Mr A made. Thats 
because having made an £800 payment the day before, Mr As £800 investment had 
increased 20-fold, to nearly £16,000 by the following morning. This type of return is 
unfortunately wholly unrealistic and so Mr A should have had a real concern that things were 
not as they seemed and should have had concerns prior to making the second payment to 
release the funds. I appreciate when Mr A made the second payment says he saw what he 
thought was a company name under the payee name  which he felt added to the legitimacy 
of things, but that name was the name of the bank where the funds were being sent. I dont 
think this in itself is enough to say Mr A had a reasonable basis of belief in making the 
payment, in light of all the other concerning features Ive mentioned.
With all of this in mind I dont find that Mr A had a reasonable basis for believing he was
making a legitimate investment, and so Monzo has fairly declined his claim under the
CRM Code.
Is there any other reason Monzo ought to refund Mr A?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr A from financial harm. The 
CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they should
provide effective warnings to their customers. The CRM Code also says that the assessment 
of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether
compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam.I am also mindful that when Mr A made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
The payments made by Mr A were not so remarkable that Monzo ought to have believed
there was a scam risk. The amounts sent each time werent particularly large or unusual, 
though I appreciate they represent a significant loss for Mr A. I am also mindful the second 
payment was made to the same destination as the first. And nor were there other concerning 
features  in terms of the payments  to put Monzo on notice. And so, I dont believe Monzo 
needed to do more than it did, in terms of providing warnings about making payments. 
Mr A has described his condition that he was suffering with and that resulted in him being in 
hospital at the time the payments were made. The CRM Code talks about customers being 
reimbursed, despite any exceptions applying, if the individual was vulnerable to the extent 
that they were unable to protect themselves from the scam. 
From what Ive seen I dont think this applies to Mr A. At the time, Mr A had sought out the 
investment himself, rather than being cold-called or pressured into the arrangement. Mr A 
was also able to ask lots of questions of the scammer which unfortunately he took at face 
value rather than conducting further enquiries. So, I dont find it would be fair and reasonable 
to conclude that Mr A was vulnerable to an extent that he was unable to protect himself form 
this type of scam as set out by the CRM Code.
The final consideration I have to make is whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover
the money Mr A lost. Monzo was limited in terms of what it could do here; it could only ask
the receiving bank to return any money that remained in the recipient account. It needed to
make enquiries quickly for the best chance of recovery. The evidence Ive seen persuades
me Monzo did act quickly. Unfortunately, it is common for fraudsters to withdraw or move the 
money on as quickly as possible. As Mr A reported the matter to Monzo the following day, 
when the receiving bank replied  it was to say that no funds remained, so there was nothing 
more Monzo could do. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman