DRN-2828280
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that a car acquired with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
was mis-sold to him because it didnt have some of the features which were advertised.   
What happened
In June 2020 Mr and Mrs R was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
Shortly after getting the car, Mr R complained because it didnt have the features of 
automatic lights and automatic rain sensors which had been advertised.
Santander contacted the supplying dealer who said the advertisement included a disclaimer, 
but that they had offered Mr R a warranty extension as a gesture of goodwill. The supplying 
dealer said the features couldnt be added to the car and that the absence of them hadnt 
affected the purchase price. 
Santander rejected the complaint. It said the car hadnt been sold without a major feature 
and that if it had been essential for the features to be included it wouldve expected Mr and 
Mrs R to have raised this at the point of supply.
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with the response and complained to this service. They want to 
end the agreement and return the car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think it was reasonable to say that 
the automatic headlights and rain sensors werent major features, because these were the 
main features Mr and Mrs R required. The investigator said the disclaimed didnt apply to the 
features of the car but to the technical specifications. He said Mr and Mrs R should be 
allowed to reject the car.
Santander didnt agree. It said Mr R had test driven the car before he purchased it and had 
plenty of time to ask questions about the features. It also said the dashboard controls had 
been explained to Mr R and he hadnt raised any questions about the automatic lights and 
wipers.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the advertisement. This clearly states what the features are and includes 
automatic lights and wipers.
I can see that there is a disclaimer which says that errors might occur. But its not clear that 
the disclaimer relates to the features section of the advertisement, because it appears in a 
different section.
Ive taken account of Mr Rs testimony in which he states that the main reason he and Mrs r 
purchased the car was because it had these features and was within budget. Mr R has 
explained that he had the same features on his previous car and that the features were 
necessary because Mrs R suffers from a medical condition in relation to which the features 
assist her with being able to drive.
 There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr and Mrs R and the supplying dealer. 
However, Ive no reason to doubt Mr Rs testimony. I think its more likely than not that these 
features were the main factor in his decision to purchase the car. This is supported by the 
timeline of events here  Mr R realised within a matter of days that the features werent 
present and raised this with the supplying dealer. The fact that the supplying dealer 
investigated and extended the warranty as a gesture of goodwill suggests to me that the 
supplying dealer acknowledged that an error had been made. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that these features were essential features for Mr 
ad Mrs R. I dont think they would have purchased the car if they had been made aware that 
the features werent included.
Ive taken into account what Santander has said about Mr R test driving the car and having 
the chance to ask questions. Mr R has said that he test drove the car on a dry day and that 
there was no need to use the lights or the wipers. So, I dont think it wouldve been possible 
for Mr R to ascertain that the features werent present from the test drive.
Ive also considered the handover form. This says the dashboard controls were explained to 
Mr R at the point of sale. Santander has said that Mr R shouldve raised any concerns at this 
time. However, looking at the handover form, it doesnt specify which controls were 
explained. And at this point Mr R had already purchased the car on the basis of the 
information provided to him in the advertisement, so he was expecting the features to be 
present and had no reason to ask questions about them.
Putting things right
Based on everything Ive seen, Im of the view that the car was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs R 
because it didnt have the features as advertised. Im persuaded that these features were 
key features for Mr and Mrs R and that if they had been made aware that the features 
werent present, they wouldnt have proceeded to enter into the agreement. Because of this I 
think they should be allowed to end the agreement and return the car. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs R have suffered a degree of trouble and upset as a result of being 
supplied with a car which didnt have the features they required. I think its fair to ask 
Santander to pay compensation for this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr and Mrs R
Remove the agreement from Mr and Mrs Rs credit file
Pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman