DRN-3441020
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vision Independent Financial Planning Ltd (VIFPL) failed to complain on 
his behalf about the mis-selling of his Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) pension by another firm, and also failed to warn him there was a three-year time 
limit to raise that complaint from when he ought reasonably to have known of it.
What happened
Mr S was advised to take out the FSAVC in 1997 by a different firm.
In February 2017, VIFPL began giving investment advice to Mr S and his partner. They 
signed an adviser charge and ongoing service agreement which suggests they would be 
paying 0.5%pa of their total investments for VIFPLs services, and getting an annual review 
in return.
The adviser wrote to Mr S and his partner with a synopsis of what he was proposing, and 
providing explanations of the tax treatment of Mr Ss employers pension scheme which was 
complex. The letter also discussed income protection and savings policies. It said the 
following about Mr Ss FSAVC:
As far as this product is concerned, [you] should have never been sold a free-standing AVC. In 
the first instance Added years should have been advised and put in place. The rationale for this 
is that they would have enhanced your benefits on both the pension and ill health pension front 
as well as being based on your long term career salary high compared to your pay back in 1997. 
This FSAVC contract would have generated a commission for the adviser back then and I expect 
no research would have been carried out on the added years front The total charge for this [first] 
year would have been 6.77% as a total deduction from your premiums.
I would therefore suggest a claim for poor advice, which I can help you with as required with a view 
to seeking financial compensation to make up for the benefit shortfall which could prove 
substantial.
The concluding page of this synopsis gave a briefer summary of all the advice given 
including, Scottish Widows FSAVC. There is a strong case here for the miss selling of the original 
policy and for the fact that this has not been reviewed or its inappropriateness being highlighted by 
the current servicing agent. If you wish to pursue this, I would be happy to assist as I do feel you have 
been financially disadvantaged. 
Next to this Yes. Over time has been hand-written in what VIFPL says was an annotation 
from May 2017. Research was carried out into arranging a discretionary managed portfolio 
for Mr S and his partners investments (which did not include the FSAVC). A suitability report 
was issued in June 2017 proposing a portfolio of £300,000. At the end of the report, items for 
future review were noted, including Follow up on FSAVC advice suitability as you should have 
been directed to NHS added years in the first instance. We will look at this in the coming months.
In March 2018 Mr S emailed the adviser asking to have his annual review and tabling the 
Potential misselling of FSAVC for further discussion. There was a further exchange in May 
2018 about the taxation of Mr Ss employers pension, but the FSAVC wasnt mentioned. 
Another suitability report followed in July 2018 in which the adviser reviewed Mr Ss income 
protection arrangements. Again, no reference was made to the FSAVC in this report. The 
adviser says this was because there is no annotation next to the FSAVC remark in Mr Ss 
email from March 2018  meaning he was not asked to look into it further at that time.
In November 2020 Mr S emailed the adviser, I had my annual review sent through on my 
FSAVC. I know you were concerned I couldn't pursue mis-selling because of the inability to calculate 
my loss. However a quick internet dig suggests the size of loss is of secondary importance. Can we 
just claim missellling and see what offer they make?
Mr S subsequently found it straightforward to locate the other firm and pursued the claim 
himself. The other firm responded that he was out of time to bring his complaint  an 
outcome that the Financial Ombudsman Service agreed with. He shared this with the VIFPL 
adviser, who expressed surprise that there was a time limit. The adviser added:
When I did your initial review and gave you an opinion on your FSAVC, it was a general comment 
from years of industry experience, as opposed to specific advice on exactly what to do about it. If 
you remember, I had a concern that it would be difficult to pursue mis-selling because of the 
inability to calculate any actual financial losses and tracking down the adviser/company 
responsible would also be problematic. I myself, am unable to pursue a claim on your behalf as I 
do not provide a claim management service.
This is a reference to the fact that, as VIFPL has already explained to Mr S, claims 
management became an FCA-regulated activity from 1 April 2019.
VIFPL didnt agree that its adviser had an absolute responsibility to complain to the other 
firm on his behalf, or to advise him of the three-year time limit. It denied that in saying 
pursuing the claim might be difficult, the adviser had refused to assist Mr S. It thought Mr S 
hadnt actually instructed the adviser to make the complaint (which Mr S disputes). 
VIFPL didnt think the adviser was in a position to definitively establish whether or not Mr S 
had been appropriately advised by the former firm, although he was able to indicate there 
was a potential mis-sale and did so. But it offered £250 for the poor service Mr S received. In 
particular, it expected its adviser to be aware of the time limits and didnt think he should 
have viewed tracking down the firm who sold the FSAVC as a difficult task.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and concluded that:
It doesnt matter that VIFPL didnt specifically apply to have the FCA permission to 
carry out claims management activities from April 2019 onwards. 
A firm that was otherwise regulated could act on behalf of a client in making a 
complaint as long as it had their authority. However, it remains the firms decision 
whether or not to take part in such activities.
The service originally envisaged when Mr S had engaged VIFPL was for its adviser 
to give financial planning advice, rather than to make claims or complaints.
The adviser appeared to only say he would help or assist Mr S with the claim, rather 
than take it forward on his behalf. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides information on its website about how to 
go about making complaints and pension providers do the same.
Mr S had been made aware of the potential mis-selling and so it was ultimately for 
him to take steps to address this, even if he was unaware of a time limit. 
VIFPL hadnt disputed that the adviser had made errors in his dealings with Mr S, 
and she didnt think it unreasonable that it offered him £250 for this.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
- Even the items that didnt have annotations on the various agendas for discussion ended up being discussed.
- The adviser had changed his position by refusing to assist him, and he shouldnt be 
penalised for not keeping his own notes of meetings.
- The adviser had now admitted he informed Mr S in around 2018 that it would be 
difficult to track down the firm to complain to or calculate loss.
- That was the only reason Mr S didnt proceed with the complaint at that time. 
- The adviser was the professional in the relationship and should have told Mr S he 
needed a different adviser to deal with claims rather than expect him to work this out.
- If the VIFPL adviser had simply said nothing in 2017, it wouldnt have given the other 
firm a reason to time bar his complaint.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has referred both to the extent to which the matters complained about are 
regulated by the FCA (and therefore in the jurisdiction of this service) and what would be a 
fair and reasonable outcome. I am broadly in agreement with the overall outcome the 
investigator has reached, but I will address those two issues separately.
Claims management became regulated by the FCA in April 2019. It means that after that 
point, a firm (even one that also provides financial planning advice) would likely need to 
apply for an additional permission from FCA even to assist with making a claim about past 
financial advice given to one of its clients. So I can understand VIFPLs reluctance to assist 
Mr S after April 2019, and I dont think it was wrong to mention this to him.
Before April 2019 however, the situation was different. Some firms specifically existed to 
carry out claims management and were regulated by a division of the Ministry of Justice, but 
VIFPL was not one of those firms: it was a financial adviser regulated by the FCA. There 
were no rules preventing FCA-regulated firms carrying out claims management if they chose 
to do so, but equally no rules governing how they should go about carrying it out  because 
it was not an activity the FCA regulated.
The acts or omissions of VIFPL that Mr S complains about began before April 2019. For that 
time period, it is in theory possible that I might be able to find in Mr Ss favour if I can see 
that VIFPL agreed to perform a service for him that it performed wrongly or failed to carry 
out, and that doing this was an ancillary activity to something else it was doing that was 
regulated by the FCA. 
I will address the meaning of the word ancillary later in this decision, but at its broadest, its 
evident VIFPL was carrying out some FCA-regulated activities for Mr S: for one thing, it was 
advising him on his investment portfolio.
However, the crux of the problem here is that I agree with the investigator that Mr S hasnt 
been able to show that VIFPL agreed to actually make the claim for Mr S against his former 
adviser. It did advise him that he potentially had a claim: that much is clear. It is often 
possible for advisers to see, from their wider industry awareness or direct experience, where 
clients have policies that have been subject to a high level of mis-selling in the past. 
FSAVCs are an example of this. 
The hurdle that Mr Ss complaint falls at is that I dont agree that at any point VIFPLs adviser 
agreed to act as his representative in making the complaint. Firstly, he said I can help you with [the complaint] as required. Next, he said If you wish to pursue this, I would be happy 
to assist and We will look at this in the coming months.
In my opinion VIFPL has not agreed to submit the claim on Mr Ss behalf at any of these 
points. It had already provided help and assistance by explaining how Mr S might have lost 
out financially. It reads to me as if VIFPL was initially offering further help, perhaps when 
Mr S was putting his complaint into writing or establishing how to contact the firm in 
question. (It doesnt seem at that point that the adviser was aware that the advisers firm had 
acted as a representative of a larger network, from which it was likely easier to obtain a 
response, as Mr S later found out.)
Mr S argues that he was asking the adviser to proceed with the claim on his behalf when he 
referred to Potential misselling of FSAVC  but I dont agree. This was an agenda item for 
discussion and if a discussion happened as a result I dont have much reason to think that it 
would have gone differently to the earlier remarks. The adviser was not a claims manager by 
profession - there were other firms who specialised in providing those services. But he had 
given a clear indication as to why Mr S should consider complaining and I think would 
reasonably have expected Mr S to take the first step in doing so (and had initially offered to 
help him where required).
It seems to be common ground that, at around this time, the adviser then reconsidered the 
extent to which he could help Mr S any further. He seems to have anticipated the other firm 
might be evasive (as I mentioned above, he wasnt aware it was part of a network), and that 
Mr S being able to demonstrate what loss he had suffered might improve his prospects in 
that event. However, I cant see how the adviser could end up being liable for financial 
losses as a consequence of changing his mind about assisting Mr S, when he was not 
bound by any rule or agreement to continue offering assistance.
VIFPL has said that its adviser could have been more helpful in explaining about the time 
limits and suggesting that Mr S go ahead with his complaint on the basis of what he already 
knew. It has offered compensation on that basis, but for poor service and not financial loss. 
That is not an admission that the adviser was bound to give Mr S this information.
Mr S admits he knew, at a point when we now know he was still in time to bring his 
complaint against the former adviser, that he might have suffered a loss. He also considers 
that VIFPL was refusing to assist him further. I cant see that this places him in a materially 
different position to another person who suspects that they might have been mis-sold a 
pension. They, too, would generally not be aware of the time limits, principally because the 
firm theyre complaining about wasnt required to tell them there were time limits when it 
provided the product or service about which theyre complaining. 
As the investigator said, its a reasonable expectation in financial services (and under the 
law) that a consumer will take steps to put things right if they realise something has gone 
wrong. Whilst in this case that was prompted by information VIFPL gave Mr S, that 
awareness could potentially have come from any source. Some consumers then complain in 
time, and others unfortunately do not. 
I realise why Mr S says that the adviser should have pointed him in the direction of someone 
else who could help, but that again doesnt place Mr S in a materially different position to 
other consumers who complain about mis-sold policies (including FSAVCs) on their own 
initiative. Mr S subsequently decided he had nothing to lose by trying  but this was a 
significant time after hed established VIFPL couldnt help him further. I dont think VIFPL 
could be responsible for how long it took him to do this.
I also dont think it helps Mr Ss case to say that he wouldnt have been time barred by the other firm if VIFPL hadnt spoken to him at all. We dont know if he would ever have decided 
to complain, or that he wouldnt have been time-barred for another reason by the time he 
did. The counter argument is that he was in a better position to complain because VIFPL had 
spoken to him. 
As the investigator has said, VIFPL offered Mr S compensation of a broadly similar amount 
to awards the Financial Ombudsman Service makes for issues of poor customer service like 
he experienced. I say issues like Mr S experienced, because no two cases are alike. And as 
I mentioned above, in order to make such an award I would also need to be satisfied that in 
the particular circumstances of this case, VIFPLs agreement to assist Mr S with his claim 
was ancillary to the regulated activities it was carrying out (for example, advising him on a 
discretionary portfolio).
I think there could be difficulties with demonstrating this, because I cant see that any 
investment recommendations were actually made on Mr Ss FSAVC. Even if Im wrong on 
that, the word ancillary implies an activity that helps or supports the main activity  and 
there is doubt as to whether assisting with a mis-sale claim meets that test. 
The overriding point however is that even if I was able to demonstrate that the claims advice 
was an ancillary activity, I wouldnt likely have awarded any more compensation than VIFPL 
offered. VIFPL has told us that its offer remains open to Mr S in the interests of resolving the 
complaint, so he is still able to accept it.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against VIFPL. If he wishes to accept VIFPLs offer of 
compensation he should contact it directly. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an 
alternative to the courts, so I should make him aware that accepting VIFPLs offer of 
compensation may affect any rights he has to take legal action.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman