DRN-3331017
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) made an entry about him on the Cifas 
fraud prevention database in connection with a mortgage application and that it refused to 
remove this.
What happened
Mr S applied for a mortgage with Santander in June 2019. In his application Mr S said that 
he was employed by a company I shall refer to as Company D. Santander requested some 
further information from Mr S regarding the ownership of Company D. Mr S provided a copy 
of the shareholders statement for Company D which showed that as of 30 October 2018, the 
shareholding company, which I shall refer to as Company S, owned all 1,000 shares in 
Company D, 100 of those being transferred from Mr S on 16 October 2018. Santander 
requested further information regarding Company S and Mr S provided a copy of the 
shareholders statement, which showed that he owns 99.2% of Company S. 
As Mr S owned the majority of the shareholding company which owned the company he was 
employed by and was a director of, Santander considered him to be self-employed. It 
therefore declined the application and put a Cifas marker against him. 
Mr S says that there was no question on the application form about who owns the company 
he was employed by and that he answered all questions correctly. He has asked Santander 
to remove the marker but it has refused to do so. He would like the marker removed as he 
says this has prevented him from getting a mortgage elsewhere.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and was of the view that Santander hadnt 
acted unreasonably in adding a marker with the fraud prevention agency as it had 
reasonable grounds to suspect that it had received false information in support of an 
application. He said that it would have been more accurate for Mr S to have said that he was 
self-employed as a director. The investigator also noted that Santander hadnt been able to 
verify the income declared by Mr S as being accurate. He therefore didnt think Santander 
had done anything wrong and couldnt fairly ask it to remove the marker.
Mr S disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
Fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial services sector, allowing 
the sharing of information with financial businesses to protect themselves and their 
customers from fraud. However, the consequences for an individual of being added to a 
database can be severe, so its important that a marker is only entered where it can be 
justified. 
In order to apply a Cifas marker, a business must have reasonable grounds to believe that 
fraud has been committed or attempted, and there must be clear, relevant and rigorous 
evidence such that the business could confidently report the matter to the police should it 
choose to do so. There are various fraud offences, but a common feature is that a financial 
business has found dishonesty in the information supplied by the customer.
Ive taken this into account when looking at Mr Ss case. Having done so, Im satisfied that 
Santander hasnt acted unfairly when it placed the marker on the Cifas database.
Santanders concerns were based on the fact that it suspected false employment and 
income details were declared as part of Mr Ss mortgage application.
I have looked at the income section of the mortgage application form completed by Mr S and 
dated 12 June 2019. In the section regarding his employment status, Mr S put down the 
name of his employer as Company D. He stated that his employment status was Employed, 
his job title was Finance Director, the type of contract he had was Permanent and the date 
he started the job was June 2019. He said that his basic annual salary was £80,000 and 
that he had no other income besides this.
I have seen screenshots of the process for completing the application form and there is a 
dropdown box for the field of Employment Status which includes options of Employed, 
Self-employed  Sole trader, Self-employed  Partnership and Self-employed  Company 
director.  
The records for Company D show that Mr S resigned as a director of Company D on 17 May 
2019. However, I have seen from the company records which Mr S provided to Santander 
that he owned 99.2% of the company which owned Company D.
Our investigator noted that Mr S said in his application form that he had started in his 
employed role in June 2019 and asked Mr S if he had any evidence of his salary being 
£80,000 at this time or prior to this. He also asked Mr S to provide a copy of his April 2020 
P60 to show the earnings from Company D. In response to this, Mr S confirmed that he 
changed to a different job role in June 2019 and provided a copy of his P60 for 2020 from 
Company D which he said evidenced his salary for this role. Santander was unable to verify 
that the information contained within the P60 was accurate.Ive considered Mr Ss P60 for 2020 which shows that his income in employment with 
Company D was around £83,700 and his total income for the year was just short of £89,000. 
However, it shows that he paid no tax on this income. Our investigator asked Mr S why the 
P60 showed that he had paid no tax. Mr S said that It shows that I paid no tax up until that 
point due to the fact I hadnt yet started the role I was moving into. Given that the P60 
covers the period from 6 April 2019 until 5 April 2020, this appears to contradict the 
information both on the application form (where Mr S said that he had started the job with 
Company D in June 2019) and what Mr S had previously told our investigator when he 
confirmed that he had changed jobs in June 2019 and that the P60 evidenced his salary in 
this role. It also does not explain why Mr S is shown to have earned around £83,700 in his 
employment with Company D during this financial year.  
Mr S has provided copies of some personal accounts and HMRC information. These show 
that he received around £11,500 from employment in the 2018-19 tax year and around 
£9,000 from employment in the 2019-20 tax year. So these do not support what Mr S said in 
the application form about being employed with earnings of £80,000. They also do not match 
the figures on the P60 for 2020 provided by Mr S. 
I have noted what Mr S has said about there being no question on the application form about 
who owned the company he worked for. And I agree that there is no specific question asking 
this. However, given the evidence referred to above in relation to Mr Ss majority ownership 
of Company S and the discrepancies in the information he has provided about his income 
earned as an employee for Company D, Im not persuaded that Mr S completed the 
application form accurately by stating that he was an employee with earnings of £80,000. 
Santander asked for clarification around this issue and Im satisfied that it applied the marker 
fairly to the fraud prevention database. Having received further information since the marker 
was applied, I am also satisfied that the grounds it had for applying the marker remain and I 
wont be asking it to remove this. 
In light of the above, I dont think it was unfair that Santander put the marker on the Cifas 
database and I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Santander UK Plc to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman