DRN-2806110
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for an annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance through a broker in 2019. The 
policy was due to renew on 3 June 2020. The broker sent Mr and Mrs S a renewal quote on 
4 May 2020, which explained that the worldwide policy would be automatically renewing. 
The quote set out that the new annual premium would be £1137.36, covered a number of 
medical conditions and that it would provide 15 months of travel insurance cover for the price 
of 12. The quote stated that Mr and Mrs S would need to get in touch with the broker if they 
didnt want the policy to auto-renew.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt get in touch with the broker, the policy auto-renewed on 2 June 2020 
and was due to expire on 2 September 2021. The full premium was debited and the broker 
sent the policy documents to Mr and Mrs S.
On 26 June 2020, Mrs S got in touch with the broker to ask for a refund of her premium. As 
Mrs S was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period, the broker told her she wasnt entitled to 
a refund of premium. It told her that it could cancel the policy and offer her a pro-rata credit 
voucher for the value of £1077.84, which she could put towards a new policy. Mrs S agreed 
to take up this option and took out a new European annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, 
which would be in force between 26 June 2021 and 25 June 2022. She paid for the new 
policy using the credit voucher, leaving a remainder balance of around £103.
Three days later, Mrs S called the broker to cancel the new policy and to request a full 
refund of premium. The broker explained that as Mr and Mrs S had paid for their new policy 
by using the credit voucher, their refund would also be paid as a credit voucher for the value 
of their policy.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the brokers position and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought that the policy terms and conditions made the auto-renewal process 
clear and that the broker had shown itd acted in line with those terms and conditions when it 
renewed Mr and Mrs S policy. He set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and 
how they applied in the circumstances of this case. He was also satisfied that Mr and Mrs S 
had cancelled their policy outside of the cooling-off period, so he didnt think they were 
strictly entitled to any refund of premium. 
But he noted that Great Lakes had subsequently agreed to offer Mr and Mrs S a full refund 
of their policy premium by way of a credit voucher, as theyd never intended to use it and 
theyd had no trips booked. He felt this was fair in the circumstances. Great Lakes had also 
agreed that the voucher would be valid for 36 months and could be transferred to a third 
party. The investigator felt this offer was fair and reasonable and that it wasnt overly 
restrictive.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. Mrs S said she was on a waiting-list for surgery and so she didnt 
think shed be able to travel within the next 36 months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs S fairly. Ill explain why.
It seems to me that there are two key issues for me to decide. Was the policy renewed in 
line with the terms of the contract? And is Great Lakes refund offer fair and reasonable?
Was the policy renewed in line with the contract terms?
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs S annual multi-trip travel insurance policy automatically 
renewed on 2 June 2020, during a period of national travel restrictions due to Covid-19. So 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S policy and the paperwork they 
were sent to establish whether Great Lakes was entitled to renew the policy. And if so, 
whether it made it clear enough to Mr and Mrs S that the policy would be renewed and 
when.
Ive first looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S contract with Great Lakes. 
Under Renewing your Annual Policy it says:
Unless you have advised us that you do not want your annual multi-trip policy to be 
automatically renewed, or you no longer meet the eligibility criteria, (broker) will send you 
your renewal invitation at least 21 days before your renewal date which will include your 
premium for the next year based on your latest medical declaration.
If you renew on a continuous payment method, we will automatically renew your policy each 
year using the payment details you have given us. Please contact us prior to your renewal 
date if you wish to renew using a different payment method and/or if you need to update 
your medical conditions or personal circumstances.
I think the policy terms make it clear that unless a policyholder has let Great Lakes or the 
broker know that they dont want to renew their policy; theyll be sent a renewal quote at 
least 21 days before renewal is due. I also think the policy terms make it clear that payment 
will be taken using the payment details Great Lakes has previously been given.
Great Lakes has provided me with a copy of the renewal notice it sent to Mr and Mrs S. This 
set out the terms on which the new policy would be offered, the new cover start-date and the 
price. It stated that if Mr and Mrs S were happy with the premium, the policy would 
automatically renew. And it was dated 1 May 2020. Im satisfied that this is in excess of the 
21 day notice the policy terms required Great Lakes to provide.
Additionally, Great Lakes has also provided me with a copy of the policy schedule it sent to 
Mr and Mrs S after the policy auto-renewed on 2 June 2020. I note from Great Lakes 
submissions too that Mr and Mrs S told it that theyd received their renewal letter but hadnt 
understood what was being offered  theyd thought the policy was being extended. But 
having considered the paperwork, I think it was clear that the policy would be renewing  it 
was simply offering a longer period of cover. Overall then, Im satisfied that Great Lakes sent 
appropriate renewal information in a timely way and that it acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs S policy when it renewed their policy.Is Great Lakes offer fair and reasonable?
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that Great Lakes should pay them a cash refund of 
their premium. So Ive turned to the terms of their policy to look at how Great Lakes treats 
cancellations. The policy says:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Mr and Mrs S policy renewed on 3 June 2020. This meant the policy cooling-off period 
ended on 17 June 2020. But Mr and Mrs S didnt cancel their original policy until 26 June 
2020. This means the cancellation took place outside of the cooling-off period. So there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. 
And as Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to 
pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 
pandemic as exceptional circumstances either. I think this policy term most likely relates to 
cancellation due to circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  such as 
bereavement or a change in their own health. This means I dont think the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs S contract with Great Lakes entitle them to any refund of 
premiums.  
Is Great Lakes offer fair and reasonable?
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer to provide Mr and Mrs S with a credit 
voucher for their full policy premium is fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr and Mrs S 
cancelled their second policy within the cooling-off period and therefore consider that they 
should be entitled to a cash refund of their premium. But Great Lakes states that as they 
paid for their second policy using a credit voucher, then any refund of premium would also 
need to be made by credit voucher. In my view, I dont think this is an unreasonable position 
for Great Lakes to take.
Mr and Mrs S say that the credit voucher is of no value to them, as theyre unlikely to travel. I 
appreciate Mrs S is going to undergo knee surgery in the near future. But the voucher is 
valid for three years and while travel plans are currently uncertain, I think its likely that Mr 
and Mrs S will likely be in a position to make use of the voucher at some point in the future. 
And its open to them to gift the voucher to family or friends. So I dont think the terms of the 
voucher are overly restrictive. This means I think a credit voucher is a fair alternative to a 
monetary refund in the circumstances of this case.
Overall, Im satisfied that Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman