DRN-2842089
The complaint
Miss G complains that Drive Motor Retail Limited mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2007 when she took out a HP agreement to buy a car.
What happened
Miss G said she was told the PPI was compulsory, so she was not given any choice about 
buying it. She said she didnt know she could cancel the policy. Miss G added that she 
was in a stable job, had savings and could rely on her family to help her. She concludes 
the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Miss G disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs case.
Having looked at the evidence, I am going to say Miss Gs complaint should not be upheld. I 
know this will disappoint her, so Ill explain why.
Miss G said she did not know the policy was optional as she was told it was compulsory; she 
says she wasnt given any choice about buying PPI. Yet Drive Motor Retail should have 
made Miss G aware she had a choice in buying the policy.
Drive Motor Retail was able to produce Miss Gs loan application which it said Miss G 
would have seen at the time of her PPI purchase. I can see on the loan application that 
Miss G has the choice of whether to buy PPI because there is a section headed Optional 
Credit Protection and below that it says, Customer to tick box if required. I can see on 
Miss Gs form that the box has been ticked for PPI and she has signed the loan 
application.  So as this choice was most likely offered to Miss G at the time of the PPI 
sale, I think its more likely that she was probably aware the policy was an optional 
product. 
I also noted that the insurer  who had not been present at the PPI sale  sent her a letter 
immediately after the sale to confirm her purchase of the optional PPI. It also told her she 
could cancel the policy if she didnt want it. So I think this made it clear enough that the 
policy was an optional financial product which she could cancel.
I do appreciate that Miss G remembers events in a different way. However, I have not seen 
any persuasive evidence of what she was told that day or of the verbal pressure she may 
have felt to buy PPI. For instance, she hasnt told us what exactly was said to her on that 
day or by whom. So I can only refer to the documents completed at the time which show the 
policy was an optional product. And having done so, I think its more likely the policy was 
shown as an optional product.
Drive Motor Retail recommended the PPI to Miss G, so it had to check if it was suitable for 
her. I think it probably was suitable for Miss G because she was eligible to buy it, it doesnt 
seem she was affected by the main exclusions and limitations and it looks like it was 
affordable for her at the time of the sale.
I looked at her financial circumstances to see if the policy might have been of value to 
Miss G. She told us she would only get around three months sick pay from her employer 
and that she had around three months salary in savings. So I think the PPI cover could 
have lasted for longer than her sick pay and would have covered her HP loan repayments 
at the time she might have needed it most. So I dont think her employee benefits made 
the policy unsuitable.
Miss G said she could rely on her parents to pay loan repayments if she couldnt afford 
them herself. I understand the point she is making. But there was no guarantee she could 
rely on this help at some unknown point in the future during the full loan term. So I dont 
think this made the policy unsuitable at the time of the sale.
I dont know exactly what was said to Miss G about the PPI cost and benefits and the 
exclusions and limitations of the policy. And Miss G and Drive Motor Retail didnt give any 
details about the conversations held that day. However, having already decided she 
probably chose to take out the PPI - it looks like she wanted this type of cover and  for 
the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. So I think she most likely had enough information about the PPI 
cost, benefits and the exclusions and limitations at the time of the sale and I think its 
unlikely that full detailed information would have put her off from buying it.
Taking everything into account, I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman