DRN-4151053
The complaint
Mr P complains that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans (Shelby) gave him a loan 
he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr P took one loan from Shelby for £400 on 6 March 2020. Mr P was due to make six 
monthly repayments of £114.95. Mr P repaid his loan on 8 January 2021. 
Following Mr Ps complaint, Shelby issued a final response letter. It detailed the checks that 
it carried out which included asking for income and expenditure details as well as carrying 
out a credit search. It was satisfied that based on these checks that Mr P could afford his 
repayments. So, it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Shelby then provided its file of evidence and explained that although the outcome it had 
reached in the final response letter was correct, as a gesture of goodwill it had agreed to 
remove the adverse data from Mr Ps credit file. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who upheld the complaint. She concluded 
Shelby ought to have carried out some further checks before the loan was granted. Had it 
done so, Shelby wouldve likely discovered Mr P had taken four new loans in the month 
before this loan was approved. 
She also acknowledged what Mr P said about his health and why Shelby may have wanted 
to know more about this because it wasnt aware of any concerns at the time the loan was 
granted. 
Shelby didnt agree with the outcome and Ive read in full what it has provided, Ive 
summarised the response below:
Mr Ps credit file didnt show an excessive amount of debt or any insolvency markers. 
Mr P was utilising his overdraft, but this hadnt been exceeded. 
The credit file showed that Mr P was managing his finances well.
Although, Mr P may have been granted four further loans in February 2020 this 
wasnt visible in the information Shelby had at the time. 
Mr P seems to have agreed with the proposed outcome. As no agreement has been 
reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. This doesnt apply to Mr Ps 
complaint because there was only one loan. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Shelby has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr P for details of his 
income and expenditure. Mr Ps income was declared as being £1,350 per month and he 
also declared his monthly outgoings were £650. 
As part of the affordability assessment, Shelby compared what Mr P declared against his 
credit search results (I comment more about this below) as well as well data provided from 
the Office of National Statistics. Having carried out these checks, it increased Mr Ps 
expenditure and instead used a monthly expenditure figure of £756.
This left more than sufficient disposable income for Shelby to reasonably conclude Mr P 
could afford his repayments of around £115 per month.
Before this loan was approved Shelby also carried out a credit search and it has provided a 
copy of the results as well as the summary of them which can be found in the final response 
letter. I want to add that although Shelby carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Shelby couldnt do, is 
carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received  if 
necessary.  
Shelby was also entitled to rely on the results it was given, and Ive looked at the results to 
see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either prompted Shelby to 
have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Ps application. 
A summary of the information that Shelby was provided is;
Mr P owed other creditors over £7,234 and just over £5,000 of that was balances on 
loans. 
Mr P wasnt insolvent and hadnt defaulted or had any arrears recorded on any 
accounts (both open and closed) within the last 12 months. 
Mr P recently had used payday loans  with one such account being opened within 
the last 50 days.
Mr P had recently opened one new credit card account in January 2020 and two loan 
accounts  one in December 2019 and one in January 2020. 
Mr P also already had four active loans with terms ranging from 12 to 18 months, 
indicating that these were likely high-cost instalment loans. The total Mr P needed to 
pay just to manage these loans was around £460 per month  which is around a third 
of his income. 
Although, the overdraft Shelby knew about didnt need to be repaid in one go  it was 
aware that Mr P  had since at least August 2019 been at or close to the overdraft 
limit. This is important, because even after Mr P received his salary, he would still 
likely been significantly overdrawn. 
Mr P was a modest earner, had quite a significant overdraft, recently had taken a new 18-
month loan and on the same day a previous loan (for the same term) had been repaid. So, 
Shelby knew that just over a third of Mr Ps income was going towards servicing active loans 
 which in some situations can be sufficient to uphold a complaint.  
I do therefore think, in the circumstance of this case, Shelbys checks needed to go further 
than just relying on what Mr P had told it as well as the credit check results. Given everything 
Shelby had available to it at the time it shouldve done further checks, perhaps verifying what 
Mr P had told it or checking his credit commitments to see whether there were any other 
loans that it needed to consider.
Shelby couldve gone about doing what I consider to be a proportionate check several ways. 
It couldve asked to see copy bank statements, copy of bills, asked for a full copy of his 
credit file or any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain in order to allow it to establish 
Mr Ps true financial position. 
Mr P has provided copy of his bank statements for the months leading up to this loan being 
approved. And as Ive said above, bank statements were just one of the ways Shelby 
couldve found out more information from Mr P. So, in those circumstances I dont think its 
unreasonable to rely on them. 
Had further checks been carried out Shelby wouldve likely discovered he also had a flexible 
credit product  that was costing Mr P around £600 per month. And he had been using this 
for a number of months. It also wouldve known that in the month before the loan was 
approved, Mr P had taken a further three payday loans. Shelby wouldve likely discovered, Mr P had in total at least six outstanding payday loans, a 
guarantor loan as well as a flexible credit product. Overall, in my view, Mr P was already 
significantly over indebted and was having problems managing his finances, given the 
number of high-cost credit loans he had.  
While I accept the above information wasnt available to Shelby at the point of application, I 
do think it is likely it wouldve discovered some or all of what Ive seen had it carried out what 
I consider to be a proportionate check. And as such, Im therefore upholding Mr Ps 
complaint about this loan and Ive outlined below what it needs to do in order to put things 
right. 
Overall, Im satisfied that a further, more detailed look into Mr Ps circumstances wouldve 
showed he was having difficulties maintaining his contractual repayments that he already 
had and knowing this I dont think Shelby wouldve believed that Mr P couldve repaid this 
loan in a sustainable manner. 
Finally, as Mr P applied for this loan online Shelby wasnt to know about the health problems 
that he has. And I cant say that Shelby did anything wrong in this respect.  In addition, I can 
see the emails between himself and Shelby  where it asked for further information. Its clear 
from Mr Ps response that he was unhappy to provide it  but I do think it was reasonable of 
Shelby to have made some enquires with Mr P in relation to this. So, while I understand 
Mr P may have been unhappy about this  I dont think Shelby did anything wrong. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Shelby should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Mr P, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a 
great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Shelbys liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Shelby shouldnt have given Mr P this loan. 
A. Shelby should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan.
B. Shelby should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Shelby should pay Mr P the total of A plus B.D. Shelby should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ps credit file 
about the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shelby to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans should put things right for Mr P as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman