DRN-3637215
The complaint
Mr V complains a payment made to Revolut using his credit card was incorrectly recorded as 
a cash advance which led to his credit card provider charging fees and interest on the 
transaction. 
What happened
Mr V says he made a payment to his Revolut account using his credit card. He says the 
payment was recorded as a cash advance by Revolut but this was incorrect. Mr V says 
Revolut sent the wrong information to the credit card company which led to it applying 
charges to the transaction. 
As a result Mr V has been charged fees and interest by his credit card company and wants 
Revolut to either ensure the credit card company can correct the transaction or refund him 
the costs.
Revolut have said it isnt responsible for the fees charged by the card issuer. Although the 
fees were related to a transaction made to Mr Vs Revolut account, they werent applied+ by 
Revolut. And as such the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr V wasnt happy with the response from Revolut and so he brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said Revolut processed Mr Vs 
transaction as a top up and cant be held responsible for the way the credit card issuer has 
treated the transaction. And so she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said the code provided to his card issuer by Revolut is the reason the 
credit card company charged fees and interest, and as such the code is incorrect. And so 
the matter has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have summarised the events here, I want to assure both parties that Ive reviewed 
the evidence Ive been provided. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. 
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr V but I agree with the investigators view. I 
have explained why below. 
I can understand Mr V would be disappointed to see that he was being charged for a 
transaction that he felt he shouldnt have been charged for. Especially given as he had 
raised this issue previously and been assured the matter was resolved and wouldnt happen 
again.
A Merchant Category Code (MCC) is a four-digit number used by credit card companies to 
classify businesses. An MCC indicates a merchants primary business activity. It does not 
relate to specific transactions. 
Some banks charge its customers a fee when topping up Revolut using a credit card. This is 
usually because the top up is recognised as a cash withdrawal or cash advance since a 
credit card is being used to add funds to the account. Which is what appears to have 
happened here. And I cant say that is Revoluts fault. 
I can see that Revolut refunded some fees and charges applied when Mr V complained 
previously as a gesture of goodwill. It wasnt obliged to but have recognised the relationship 
here.
I have seen Mr Vs comments following our investigators view of his complaint and 
considered what hes said carefully. Unfortunately they dont change my decision on this 
matter. The credit card issuer has treated the transaction to top up the Revolut account as a 
cash advance likely because the payment is not for goods or services but is a payment to 
top up the Revolut account for the purpose of then going on to pay school fees. The card 
issuer has applied fees to the transaction of topping up the Revolut account, not the 
payment of school fees. And Revolut have no control or responsibility over any part of that 
process. 
Ultimately it is for each credit card provider to decide what they charge for certain types of 
payments, and how they categorise them according to their fee structure. Mr Vs credit card 
provider set its own fee structure in its terms and conditions. So Im not holding Revolut 
liable for the fees the credit card provider charged Mr V, since how a credit card provider 
categorises certain payments is not something in the control of Revolut, nor indeed is it the 
responsibility of Revolut. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman