DRN-2967749
The complaint
The estate of the late Ms N has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund
transactions it says were unauthorised from her account.
What happened
Ms N died in 2017. She left her estate, in equal shares, to her niece Ms H and
her two nephews, Mr H1 and Mr H2.
Ms H and Mr H1 are authorised to represent the estate in bringing this complaint. They 
believe Ms N was financially abused by her nephew, Mr H2; Ms H and Mr H1s brother and 
the third beneficiary on Ms Ns will.
Ms H and Mr H1 say that their brother, Mr H2, stole money from their aunt from March 2015 
until the date of her death. They say he did this by fraudulently writing out cheques to himself 
and transferring money to his account. They say that their aunt didnt authorise these 
transactions and that HSBC failed to act with due diligence and care towards their aunts 
account. They want HSBC to refund the loss, which is estimated at over £80,000. The estate 
is also unhappy that HSBC has said it deleted various records after Ms N died.
Ms H and Mr H1s solicitors disputed whether the cheques were actually signed by Ms N. 
HSBC investigated the complaint and decided to refund two cheques totalling £3,424.68. Ms 
H and Mr H1 werent happy with HSBCs decision as it felt a number of other transactions 
were fraudulent and asked this service to investigate.
Our initial investigation dismissed the complaint as it was felt that the matter was better dealt 
with by a court. The estate maintained that HSBC had failed in its duty of care to protect Ms 
N and felt that this service can consider whether its liable for the loss. They added that they 
could contest the will, and the share given to Mr H2, if this service were to ask HSBC to 
refund the disputed transactions.
An ombudsman decided we should look at the complaint and so an investigation into the 
merits of the complaint was carried out.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said that just because HSBC deemed the 
last two cheques werent signed by Ms N, it didnt mean the previous transactions were 
fraudulent. The investigator found Ms N was present for the transfers, which took place in 
branch, and she was present for the setting up of the standing orders. The investigator also 
found that Ms Ns PIN was used to make ATM withdrawals. Had Ms N been asked further 
questions by HSBC about the transactions, the investigator wasnt satisfied that it would 
have changed things or that Ms N would have done anything differently. The investigator 
didnt think it was possible to determine the intentions of Ms N at the time. She also found 
there wasnt enough evidence to support the fact that Ms H had called HSBC at the time to 
express concerns about Ms N being financially abused by Mr H2.
Ms H and Mr H1 didnt agree. They said HSBC still failed in its duty to protect Ms Ns 
finances and allowed fraudulent transactions to take place. They felt there were 
inconsistencies in HSBCs replies and that judgements had been made on what ifs rather 
than concrete evidence. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 8 June 2021 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions.
It's important to note that I can only decide the complaint between Ms H and Mr H1 and the 
bank. My role is to decide whether the bank did anything wrong and, if it did, whether the 
estate has lost out as a result. It is not for me to determine the dispute between Ms H, Mr H1 
and Mr H2. I cannot require a third person who is not party to the complaint to give evidence 
(although some has been provided via the estates solicitor) and, unfortunately, we will never 
know what the late Ms Ns intentions were.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is 
more likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
Generally, HSBC can hold Ms Ns estate liable for the disputed transactions, if the evidence 
suggests that it is more likely than not that she authorised these payments or gave someone 
else consent to make them on her behalf. 
Looking at HSBCs records, on 24 February 2015 HSBC declined to process a cheque 
raised from Ms Ns current account. A call was made to request she come into the branch. A 
letter was also sent the same day explaining that a cheque for £64,000 had not been paid 
because Ms N did not have an overdraft to cover it.
There is a note on the account dated 7 March 2015 which confirms that Ms N visited the 
branch with Mr H2 that day. £50,000 was transferred from Ms Ns savings account into her 
current account on the same day. The banks internal notes also confirmed that Ms N would 
be using her savings account in the future (it had previously been dormant). Although there 
is no loss at this point (as money is transferred from one account of Ms Ns to another in her 
name), this does indicate Ms N was present for the transaction (and therefore authorised it). 
It also suggests to me there was some intention by Ms N for the savings to be spent and that 
HSBC had been put on notice of this. 
HSBCs records also confirm that on the same date, a bill payment was made to Mr H2 for 
£10,000.00. HSBC says the payment was made by the same staff member who made the 
note mentioned above on the account. I think its more likely than not that this was done at 
the same time as the transfer from Ms Ns savings account, with Ms N present. So, on 
balance, I think Ms N authorised this payment as well.
HSBC is now unable to tell whether Ms N was set up for internet banking, but its records do 
show for the rest of the transfers from Ms Ns saving account to her current account, these were initiated at one of its branch kiosks. It explained that this type of transaction registers 
on its system as internet banking. I appreciate there has been some confusion over this but 
on balance, I think these were also authorised by Ms N within the branch. In any event, as 
mentioned above, there is no loss for these transfers as the money is transferred from one 
account of Ms Ns to another.
A cheque made payable to Mr H2 for £54,000 was banked on 8 May 2015. Ms H and Mr H1 
raised concerns that HSBC had agreed to refund some cheques (I havent investigated 
these but note one cheque was to pay the local authority for Ms Ns care costs) and not this 
one. It seems this was because HSBC accepted the estates solicitors argument that the 
signature was different on the cheques and therefore agreed to refund these two cheques. 
This wouldn't automatically mean everything on the account would be considered fraudulent. 
In specifically looking at the £54,000 cheque, I dont think the signature is obviously not Ms 
Ns and I note the estates solicitor originally agreed it appears to be Ms Ns signature. 
There was also suggestion from the earlier activity on the account in February 2015 that Ms 
N was looking to transfer around £64,000 out of her account and she also confirmed to 
HSBC that she intended to use her savings account in the future. So, again, I think it is more 
likely than not Ms N authorised this payment. 
A standing order was set up on 8 May 2015 for £300 per week payable to Mr H2. Several 
changes were made to the value of the standing order (both up and down) over the period in 
question. Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, HSBC no longer has had records of 
these. However, Mr H1 himself confirmed with reference to the standing orders that it was 
like Ms N to want to pay Mr H2. So, on the balance of probabilities, and in line with the other 
disputed transactions, I think Ms N also authorised these standing orders.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Ms Ns genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions from the various cash machines. It seems it is possible Ms 
N gave her details to Mr H2 (this is something Mr H2 mentioned according to telephone 
notes made by the estates solicitors).
 
The relevant regulations say that where this is the case, payments can be considered 
authorised by Ms N. This is because by informally asking someone to take cash out on your 
behalf, you are then bound by the acts of the third party. If Ms N had enabled Mr H2 to 
appear as if he had her authority to make payment transactions, those transactions are 
considered authorised even where Ms N didnt ask Mr H2 to make particular payments or 
didnt know that he had. So, it seems to me even if Ms N gave Mr H2 her card and PIN for at 
it follows that the disputed transactions can be considered authorised.
 
On balance, I also think its likely Ms N would have been aware of the activity on her account 
through balances and statements and theres no indication she raised any concerns. And 
she may well have benefitted from some of the funds for living costs.
So, I have concluded that the transactions were more likely than not authorised by Ms N, 
even where in some instances she may have enabled Mr H2 to appear as if he had her 
authority.
The Payment Services Regulations 2009 and, in conjunction with the standard terms and 
conditions of accounts, indicate that a bank should execute an authorised payment 
instruction without undue delay  and there is a presumption that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer even if authorisation was obtained by third-party fraud. 
However, it is fair and reasonable to rebut such a presumption if there is clear evidence that 
a bank breached its duty of care by not acting adequately or at all on information that would or should have triggered fraud alerts and systems required for the proper conduct of 
business.  
The first disputed transaction was the cheque for £54,000. A cheque isnt considered a 
payment service under the Payment Service Regulations  so not covered by these 
regulations. That said; where the activity is unusual and suspicious (such as it was here - as 
there had been no comparable legitimate payments in recent times), I still think a bank 
should have made enquires with the consumer to ensure they werent at risk of financial 
harm before releasing the money promised. This particularly affects the elderly (and, 
potentially, vulnerable) as they tend to use cheques more often and are known to be more 
susceptible to being targeted by scammers.
Ive thought about Ms N and accept she was a vulnerable consumer at the time, not least 
because of her age. But there were other factors which HSBC may not have been aware of 
such as her dementia.
HSBC has no record (due to the time that has elapsed) that the £54,000 cheque triggered 
any of its detection systems. In addition to the cheque, there were further transactions, which 
were arguably unusual - such as the new standing order and changes in the frequency of 
cash withdrawals. The problem here is that, even if I decide HSBC acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in its dealings with Ms N when the transactions were made and even if I 
concluded it could and should have done more before processing all of them, I dont think it 
makes a difference here. 
I cant be sure what would have happened, if HSBC had intervened. I therefore have to base 
my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities, 
taking into account all the available evidence. 
I have noted the branch interaction on 7 March 2015 when Ms N told staff she intended to 
use the account. I have noted the evidence from the parties which indicates that when Ms N 
first became ill in January 2015, Mr H2 had offered to take care of her and later moved in 
with her and left his job with no income in order to look after her. According to a telephone 
note provided by the estates solicitors, Mr H2 confirmed to them that Ms N sent him money 
to support him as he had left his job to move in with her and care for her. Mr H1 himself 
confirmed with reference to the standing orders that it was like Ms N to want to pay Mr H2. It 
seems to me that any questioning by HSBC would likely have got this explanation.
I appreciate Ms H and Mr H1s strength of feeling that Ms N was financially abused by Mr 
H2. Overall, whilst I think HSBC could and should have done more here, even if it had, I 
cant safely say it would have changed Ms Ns intentions or that HSBC would (or should) 
have been concerned that Ms N was transferring money to her nephew who had given up 
his job and moved in to care for her. 
I note Ms H and Mr H1s comments about HSBCs records and that records are required by 
law to be kept for a set number of years. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
regulates compliance to data protection laws in the UK. Although its for the ICO to decide 
whether the bank is compliant with data protection laws, it might help if I explain that 
retention periods may differ depending on the type of data. Ultimately, if Ms H and Mr H are 
unhappy about the banks data retention policy, theyll need to raise these concerns with the 
ICO.
My final decisionMy final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms N 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman