DRN-2474815
The complaint
Mr L complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus hasnt
provided him with access to his credit card statements.
What happened
Mr L has a credit card account with Cashplus. He contacted it in September 2019 
because he wasnt able to access his credit card statements online. Despite several 
telephone calls he says Cashplus didnt send him a fob. He says he needed the fob to 
generate the verification code which he had to enter before he could access his online 
statements.
Mr L says Cashplus still hasnt provided the fob. He says hes also requested it to send 
him paper statements, but it hasnt done that either. Mr L says he hasnt made any further 
payments to Cashplus because he hasnt been able to view his statements or check the 
transactions on his account.
He complained to Cashplus. It investigated his complaint. It said he needed to add a 
Trusted Device or a Code Key (a fob) before he could access its online service. It said hed 
tried to register for its online service, but hed used about a dozen different user names and 
he needed to provide it with a specific username before it could issue a fob. It said it 
wouldnt apply its usual charge for issuing the fob. It agreed that its service hadnt been as 
good as it should have been, and it offered to pay him £50 by way of compensation.
Mr L says that despite this he never received the fob and he hasnt been able to access 
his statements. He says Cashplus hasnt sent him paper statements. He complained to 
our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said shed also asked Cashplus to issue 
the fob and to send paper statements to Mr L. She said it hadnt done this. She didnt 
think it was fair to expect Mr L to make payments when he couldnt access his 
statements. So, she upheld Mr Ls complaint. To put things right she thought Cashplus 
should:
send the fob and paper statements to Mr L;
pay him an additional £100 by way of compensation, making a total of £150; and
if it had recorded any information with credit reference agencies about 
missed payments, it should remove that information.
Cashplus didnt agree. It provided evidence it had sent a fob to Mr Ls address on 
three separate occasions. It also said it had sent paper statements to him on three 
separate occasions. It said it wasnt responsible for these items not having been 
received by Mr L. Cashplus said it had tried to discuss the account and the balance 
with Mr L on several occasions, but hed refused.
Cashplus agreed to reverse any interest or charges thatd been applied to Mr Ls account, 
but it thought an additional £25 compensation was fair and reasonable for whatd 
happened.
Because Cashplus didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important that a customer should receive an itemised statement detailing any 
transactions on his credit card account. The statement should set out what 
payment is required and by when. Cashplus says it makes statements available 
electronically to its customers. Its entitled to do that. But, when Mr L told it he 
couldnt access his statements online Id expect it to take immediate steps to 
make sure the issue was resolved.
So, Ive thought about whether Cashplus has done enough to resolve 
the issue. 
Did Cashplus send a fob to enable Mr L to access statements online?
I can see Cashplus did speak to Mr L by telephone on a number of occasions to try 
to assist him. The problem seems to have been that he needed a fob to generate a 
verification code to enable him to access the online service. He didnt have a fob.
There is a dispute about whether the fob was sent to Mr L. Mr L says he never 
received this. Cashplus says it has sent a fob to him on three occasions and it has 
confirmed the address was correct. Its provided evidence from its shipping agent to 
support this.
Ive looked at the evidence its provided. There are two entries dated 6 November 
2019 and 19 February 2020, with the status marked as removed. Cashplus says 
this means these fobs are no longer linked to the account. But it says they were 
sent. The third entry is dated 19 June 2020 and it says, in post. Mr L says he 
didnt receive any of these fobs.
Cashplus didnt send the fobs by recorded delivery but, as mentioned above, it has 
provided evidence they were sent. And, I can also see it does hold the current 
address for Mr L. I understand Mr L says he didnt receive them.
I appreciate that mail can sometimes go missing in the post. Mr L hasnt told us hes 
had any other problems with his post. He doesnt have a shared mailbox. The items 
were correctly addressed. And I think its unlikely all three items of post would have 
gone missing. So, on balance, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say that Cashplus 
has done anything wrong as regards sending the fobs to Mr L.
Ive also thought about the fact that Cashplus agreed to send Mr L paper 
statements when he repeatedly told it he hadnt received the fobs. I think that was 
fair and reasonable.Did Cashplus do enough to send paper statements to Mr L?
Cashplus says its posted paper copies of the statements to Mr L on 5 November 
2019, 18 December 2019 and 13 July 2020. Mr L told us hed recently received a 
paper statement for the period of September 2019, but he says when he checked 
the statement it didnt relate to his account. He says hes pointed this out to 
Cashplus, and it agreed to send him the correct statement, but it still hasnt done 
that.
Cashplus told us its tried to discuss the account balance with Mr L, but hes 
refused. We asked it to send us call recordings, but it hasnt been able to do 
that.
Whilst its possible for Cashplus to provide information about the account 
balance by telephone, I dont think thats a substitute for providing 
statements.
Because of the issues Mr L said he was experiencing we asked Cashplus to 
send the documents by recorded delivery, but it says it cant do this. It also 
hasnt sent copy statements to Mr Ls email address.
So, having considered everything here, on balance, I think Cashplus couldve done 
more to send Mr L his statements by an alternative means.
Cashplus couldve considered providing more support to help Mr L log into his 
account using his mobile phone as a trusted device. Cashplus says he wouldve 
needed to download an App to his smartphone. And, it says he didnt need a fob to 
do this. Mr L could then have accessed his statements online.
Mr Ls confirmed his mobile phone was suitable to be used for this purpose. But 
although I can see he phoned Cashplus several times in September 2019 about 
trying to access the online system using his mobile phone, he was unable to get 
logged on to the system. In its final response letter, Cashplus acknowledged its 
customer service was poor.
He hadnt been able to log on, either by using his phone as a trusted device or by 
using a fob. And hed been insistent he hadnt received paper statements. In these 
circumstances, I think Cashplus couldve done more to try to deliver the paper 
statements to him. It couldve considered using methods such as recorded delivery 
or email. But it hasnt done that.
What I think should be done to put things right
Mr L says he told Cashplus in December 2019 he no longer wanted to use the 
card. I can see he last used the card in November 2019.
Cashplus has agreed, after reading what our investigator said, not to apply 
any fees or interest after the date of the last statement Mr L says he received.
Mr L appears to have first raised this matter with Cashplus in September 2019. 
So, I think Cashplus should send him the statement for September 2019 and any 
subsequent statements to show his transactions up to the end of November 
2019. No fees or interest should be applied after that date.In light of the difficulties Mr L says hes had about receiving statements, Im 
currently minded to require Cashplus to send these statements by recorded 
delivery, secure email or other suitable alternative means agreed with Mr L.
Mr L can then make arrangements with Cashplus to repay the balance on the 
account.
Its not clear if Cashplus has recorded any adverse information with credit 
reference agencies since September 2019. But, if it has, I agree with what our 
investigator said. I intend to require it to remove any such information, if it has 
been recorded.
Ive also thought about whether any compensation should be paid in this case.
As Ive mentioned above, Im satisfied there is evidence Cashplus did send the 
fobs to Mr L. And it did agree to send paper statements to him. I think, when he 
was insistent he hadnt received the statements, it couldve done more to send 
these to him by an alternative means. So, he did experience some distress and 
inconvenience as a result of whats happened.
Cashplus has already offered to pay Mr L £50 by way of compensation. It has 
subsequently said it would increase this to £75. And, having considered 
everything here, my provisional decision is that I would intend to require it to pay 
Mr L £75 (in total) by way of compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think 
thats fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold 
this complaint, in part, about Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus.
Ive decided Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus couldve 
done more to deliver paper statements to Mr L. I dont uphold any other part of 
this complaint.
I currently intend to require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as 
Cashplus to take the following action:
send paper statements dated on or after 14 September 2019, free of charge, 
by recorded delivery, secure email or other method agreed with Mr L;
reverse any fees and interest applied to the account after the statement 
dated 14 September 2019;
if any adverse information has been recorded with credit reference agencies 
about missed payments for the period since 14 September 2019, that 
information should be removed; and
pay Mr L £75 (in total) by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of whats happened.
Cashplus accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr L responded to my provisional decision. He said hed prefer it if the statements were 
sent to him by recorded delivery. Our service asked Cashplus for its comments on what 
Mr L had asked for. It said it would send the statements by recorded delivery.So, I now need to make a final decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cashplus has accepted my provisional decision and its agreed to send the statements to Mr 
L by recorded delivery. Mr L didnt make any other comments about my provisional decision.
So, having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I havent changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved. For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I think Cashplus couldve done more 
to deliver Mr Ls statements to him. And, having considered what Mr L and Cashplus have 
said, in order to resolve this complaint, Ive decided to require Cashplus to send the paper 
statements to him by recorded delivery. I also require Cashplus to take the other actions set 
out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint, in part, about Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus. 
I uphold the part of Mr Ls complaint about his requests for statements to be delivered to 
him. I now require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus to take the 
following actions:
if it hasnt done so already, send paper statements dated on or after 14 
September 2019, free of charge, by recorded delivery to Mr L;
reverse any fees and interest applied to the account after the statement dated 
14 September 2019;
if any adverse information has been recorded with credit reference agencies 
about missed payments for the period since 14 September 2019, that 
information should be removed; and
pay Mr L £75 (in total) by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of whats happened.
I do not uphold any other part of Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman