DRN-2978459
The complaint
Mr D complains that Family Equity Plan Limited trading as OneFamily has mismanaged his 
daughters Barclays Child Trust Fund (CTF) account. Mr D says it has caused a loss of 
approximately £1,000 and this should be compensated now.  
What happened
Mr D set up the CTF in February 2006 with monthly payments of £50. He says there was an 
incentive of £250 to begin the investment. At the same time, he opened a standard bank 
account for his son who wasnt eligible for the scheme, as he had been born before 2002. 
In March 2021, Mr D complained to OneFamily. He said that despite the government 
endorsement of the CTF, his sons account had generated a greater return than his 
daughters  which was had a value of just under £9,000 at that time. Mr D says he had 
placed £8,600 into the fund himself - clearly it had not performed as expected. 
OneFamily replied the same month and rejected the complaint. It explained the CTFs 
performance to Mr D, which was in part because the majority of the fund had been placed 
into cash since the financial crisis in 2008/2009, meaning it was slower to recover than 
investments which had remained with a heavier weight towards equities. 
It also explained that the policy documentation made clear how the unit price protection was 
80% of what was invested, not 100% - so it was possible for an investor to receive less back 
than he or she had paid in. However, it had not provided initial or ongoing advice to Mr D, 
and the investment had operated in line with the information given from the outset.    
Mr D therefore referred the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. She concluded that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She explained how Financial Ombudsman Service could not view the performance of the 
investment as grounds for a complaint by itself, but she was able to look at what was 
communicated at the outset and thereafter by OneFamily in order to assess whether it had 
acted in line with the agreed investment strategy. 
However, the sale of the CTF was on an execution only basis, meaning advice wasnt given 
in 2006.  Our investigator did review the Key Features Document (KFD) issued to Mr D and 
she felt this set out how the CTF worked in a clear manner. Overall she did not think 
OneFamily had misled Mr D as to the nature of the investment or how it operated and 
therefore the complaint should not succeed.  
Mr D disagreed. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said that 
there as now widespread online unhappiness about CTFs and they had produced negative 
returns. This can only have followed due to inappropriate advice given by the government 
and/or OneFamily about these products. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Whilst I realise Mr D feels strongly about this matter and the viability of CTFs in 
general, I must look at the evidence before me in this complaint to decide if OneFamily acted 
reasonably (noting its required capacity) at the time of the investment, and thereafter. Having 
done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator that this complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. 
This service has specific rules around what types of complaints fall within our jurisdiction. 
Those rules say we can consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission by a business 
in carrying on a number of regulated activities. As our investigator has explained, investment 
performance isnt, of itself, a regulated activity; however, concerns with an investment may 
arise from an activity that is included, such as advice about an investment or other ancillary 
activities including providing information about an investment.  
We do not act in the capacity of a regulator. That means our decisions dont ordinarily 
interfere in how a business may conduct its operations or exercise what may be commercial 
judgement on the provision of a particular investment. That remit falls to the Financial 
Conduct Authority. 
Instead, this service provides dispute resolution, where we have a duty to make decisions 
based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all circumstances of the complaint. In Mr 
Ds circumstances, he did not receive financial advice in 2006 to set up the CTF. The sale of 
the investment was on an execution-only basis, meaning Mr D was given information by 
OneFamily as to the nature of the investment.  
Having looked at the information provided, I do not believe OneFamily acted unfairly. The 
documentation issued at the time to Mr D explains how the CTF worked, explaining that the 
equity portion of the investment was based on the performance of the Financial Times Stock 
Exchange 100 Index and the cash portion paid 1.5% interest or the Bank of England base 
rate, whichever was higher.  
It also explained that the CTF poses more risk than leaving funds on deposit. It also 
specifically highlighted risk factors, noting that:
the value of the CTF account will fall if the value of the shares in the FTSE 100 falls;
the investment is designed to ensure that the child should not receive back less than 
80% of the highest value attained. but this 'protection' is not guaranteed by Family 
Investments; and 
the investment is designed to ensure that the child should not receive back less than 
80% of the highest value attained. but this 'protection' is not guaranteed by Family 
Investments.
Although it is frustrating for Mr D that the investment has made losses following the 2008 
financial crisis, I believe that the literature issued at the time the investment was issued 
explains this in a clear and direct way. There is no objective evidence to suggest the 
investment has been operated contrarily to the information OneFamily provided. 
Furthermore, I have seen the annual information issued by OneFamily and it provides a 
clear additional important information explaining exactly how the investment works and 
highlighting what Mr D may want to consider going forwards. On the example I have seen, it 
noted:[Mr Ds daughters] CTF account invests in a security called Prosper, a type of 
corporate bond, which is a loan to a company who, in this instance, is Barclays Bank. 
Important new information
Due to stock market performance and the continuation of historically low interest 
rates, the majority of Prosper has been invested in cash since late 2008. Current 
Barclays analysis indicates that growth prospects for Prosper are low and are likely 
to remain low for the immediate future.
What this means for you
While the Prosper strategy results in more protection for your child's investment  as 
happened during the stock market falls of 2008/9 - it also reduces the fund's ability to 
achieve growth. In light of this information you may wish to revisit your reasons for 
choosing Barclays CTF and decide if it remains appropriate for your child's long-term 
needs.
I know Mr D feels strongly about the comparison from the CTF to his sons deposit account, 
but OneFamily has provided him with information as to how the investment works differently 
from a savings account where the capital would merely be saved as cash. OneFamily didnt 
make specific assurances about returns of profits such that I can attribute the difference in 
return comparison that he is seeking now across his childrens accounts  they were entirely 
different and the KFD made clear that the value of a fund investing in equities can fluctuate. 
I also recognise Mr D did not appreciate that a loss could be made on an investment of this 
nature, but that appreciation isnt directly caused by OneFamily  it didnt give him advice, 
and the information supplied both from the outset and annually does highlight the exposure 
to risk set out with the CFD and as I have explained above.  
My final decision
Though I realise my decision will be disappointing for Mr D, I cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman