DRN-3476556
The complaint
Mr S, through his representative, has complained that Oplo PL Ltd was irresponsible in 
lending to him.
What happened
On 13 October 2017 Mr S was approved for a loan with Oplo for £8,000. The loan was taken 
out over sixty months and his monthly repayments were just under £295. 
There was a £600 arrangement fee and the interest over the five years was £9,082 making 
the total repayable £17,682. Mr S paid the balance off on 27 October 2020, which he says 
he did by borrowing from a parent. So, the loan was repaid in three years not five. 
Mr S complained in July 2021 that Oplo hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan.
Oplo looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been properly 
carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Mr S referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
At first, our adjudicator upheld Mr S complaint. She thought Oplo shouldnt have offered the 
loan to Mr S.
Oplo sent additional submissions pointing out some factors included in its original 
submissions in more detail. Oplo said that having carried out its assessment for affordability 
it did think that with £950.97 monthly disposable income, Mr S would be able to afford the 
repayments of £294.70. It did not consider that the information it had, led it to think that Mr S 
was in financial difficulties. 
Our adjudicator altered her view. She issued a second letter of opinion in which she 
explained that she considered Oplo had noticed elements of  Mr S application and his credit 
search results which had prompted it to ask additional questions of Mr S before approving it. 
And it had documented the answers to those questions and issues from 2017. 
So, our adjudicator thought that Oplo had carried out appropriate and proportionate checks 
before lending. 
Mr S disagreed and sent many copy bank statements covering several years. The 
unresolved complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. I think 
the overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
if not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Oplo to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr S ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This assessment 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
Mr S took one loan, albeit a large one, and so I do consider that a comprehensive 
assessment was warranted. 
Oplo asked Mr S about his income and expenses. Mr S told it that his net monthly income 
was £2,845 plus £390 rental income from a second property he owned making a total of 
£3,235. Mr S had provided information to Oplo that his expenses (including his other credit 
commitments) were just over £2,284 a month. So Oplo calculated he had about £950 as 
money left over. As the Oplo loan was going to be just under £295 then Oplo would have 
reached a reasonable conclusion that Mr S could afford the loan. Oplo carried out a credit search on 12 October 2017 and those results have been forwarded 
to us. That showed Mr S had one County Court Judgment (CCJ) from August 2017 and for 
£260 which related to a parking fine. Oplo knew of this and commented to us: This indicates 
a dispute rather than financial difficulty and was deemed to be within acceptable risk.
Oplo has explained to us that it could see Mr S revolving credit / budget balance to limit ratio 
was 96% and commented:
Total Revolving Credit / Budget balances were £4,877 against Total Limits of £5,100. 
However, scrutiny of his credit file showed a stable position with no arrears or missed 
payments on his active accounts. A default of £3,408 from 23 February 2015 had 
also been fully settled in February 2016. 
Oplo has demonstrated through its contemporaneous documents and its annotations that it 
had asked Mr S the reason for the Oplo loan which was to use the Oplo funds to consolidate 
everything on his credit file. It had formulated a list of Mr S outstanding debt. Here is a 
duplicated table Oplo did: 
Company lending Current balance Monthly payment 
(rounded)
Unsecured loan lender A £958 £106
Unsecured loan lender B £1,529 £232
Credit card 1 £4,183 £125
Credit card 2 £694 £21
CCJ £260 £2.60
Oplo said: Total £7,364 @ £484.31 per month Consolidation would have been in [Mr S] 
best interests as it would have served to reduce his overall borrowing over the term of the 
loan and reduced his monthly outgoings by £199.61.
The unsecured loan A was with another high cost lender and Mr S had said it was for a car. 
He had taken this in June 2017. The unsecured loan B was a high cost short term credit loan 
taken by Mr S around 27 July 2017 as the £1,500 credit appeared in his bank statements on 
that date.
Oplo had created a comprehensive income and expenditure (I&E) document which has 
been forwarded to us. Oplo knew and had factored into its assessment that Mr S was living 
with parents and had relatively few outgoings for that property (no bills but did pay £252 a 
month rent) and owned another property which he rented out. Oplo had noted that the 
rental income covered the costs on that property including mortgage, insurances, and other 
things. I come back to this later in the decision. 
Overall, I consider that Oplos assessment of Mr S financial situation before approving the 
loan was proportionate and comprehensive. 
In fairness I have reviewed the evidence Mr S has sent to us to substantiate his complaint. 
These were Mr S bank account statements sent to us in relation to two bank accounts. Bank 
account 1 seemed to be the one into which his salary was paid. I have reviewed the 
statements I have which were leading up to October 2017. Bank account 2 is another 
account for Mr S and I have bank statements for the months leading up to October 2017. 
Transfers of money took place between the two accounts. And Ive done this not because I would have expected Oplo to have carried out this task of 
reviewing bank statements before lending, but rather to understand better Mr S financial 
situation and see if what he has said in his complaint letter is borne out. Part of Mr S 
complaint was that Oplos lending decision acted to exacerbate our clients already frail 
financial position increasing his balance to limit ratio of almost 200% that as clearly 
unmanageable.
And Your organisation made a lending decision based on a basic income and expenditure 
and failed to find out our clients overall financial situation. You had no way of knowing if our 
client could sustainably meet repayments over the duration of the loan.
In addition to the bank statements I reviewed, I have been sent a great many others for both 
accounts for the period after the Oplo loan was approved. Ive thought about this but 
I consider them irrelevant when I am considering an irresponsible lending complaint which, 
by its nature, must relate to the date of the sale: 13 October 2017. So, I have looked at those 
other bank statements briefly but consider them largely irrelevant for the purposes of Mr S 
complaint. 
And so even if Oplo had gone further and reviewed Mr S bank statements, I dont think that 
what it saw in those two bank account statements for the period leading up to October 2017 
would likely have led it to be alerted to financial difficulties. There are some points I have 
picked up from my own review of the information Ive received from both parties. I list them 
here and make my own findings in relation to each. 
- the rental income Oplo had been given likely was a gross figure (not net of tax) and 
the mortgage paid out was higher than the rental income, plus he was paying rent to 
his parents. So, I do not think that the rental covered all the costs arising from the 
house he let out, which is what Oplo has said. And Mr S did have some 
accommodation costs of his own. However, the income and expenditure figures were 
all assessed together and so the shortfall would have been accounted for in that 
income and expenditure assessment. So, I dont think a great deal turns on this.
- each bank account often was in credit and in account 1 on 11 October 2017 Mr S 
had £928 and £206 in the other account about the time he applied for the Oplo loan
- Mr S basic net salary exceeded £3,200 for August 2017 and Sept 2017 and was 
around £2,845 in July 2017 and October 2017. Oplo used the lowest figures for 
income in the I&E calculations which I consider the correct approach.
- a family member transferred £4,000 to Mr S a few days after the Oplo loan credited 
bank account 1 and I have no information about that so I cannot comment. Money 
received from family is not necessarily an indication of financial difficulties, especially 
when Mr S bank accounts do not look particularly under stress. There may be many 
reasons why this money was paid in. And Mr S representative has given no 
explanations.
- Mr S credit file showed he had several large loans that had been defaulted in the 
past and had been paid off with a capital advance from somewhere (one was a 
personal injury (PI) claim pay-out). But it may have been that Oplo considered it a 
risk it was prepared to take as these accounts were closed. Id not usually expect a 
lender to be overly concerned about closed and cleared accounts.
- Mr S revolving credit / budget balance to limit ratio was 96%.£4,877 against total 
limits of £5,100 but Mr S overall debt (excluding mortgage) was not high
- there had been a very recent CCJ  admittedly for a parking fine - but still this shows 
lack of attention to Mr S finances to allow the fine to get to the stage where he has a 
Judgment debt against his name. However, as Oplo has said, it knew of it and 
considered it a risk it was content to take as Mr S explanation indicated a dispute 
rather than an inability to pay. Ive factored this into my overall deliberations on the 
complaint.- about £2,000 cash advances taken from his credit card in the previous 12 months 
ought to have acted as an alert and in fact Oplo has explained that it had asked Mr S 
about that. So, although Oplo may not have received a satisfactory explanation it had 
known of it. 
- Mr S took a high cost short term loan for £400 on 27 September 2017  it was paid 
into bank account 2 and may not have been known to Oplo. But if it had known 
I doubt a £400 loan would have made a difference to Oplos lending decision. 
The loans Mr S was consolidating were not likely to be in place for much longer than nine 
months to a year considering the balances on the loans and the repayments due to be paid. 
So, I have thought about this and Mr S has given no reason other than consolidation for 
applying for the Oplo loan. 
However, I have noted from Mr S credit file history and his explanation to Oplo that when he 
has received some cash in the past he has used it to pay down debt. The high balance credit 
card may have been a concern to Mr S. 
So, consolidating with a larger loan of £8,000 over five years may have been the route Mr S 
wished to take. And would have been a matter for him. Looking at Mr S bank account 
statements I can see that he did pay off some. I do not have a credit file report which shows 
Mr S situation after October 2017 and so I am unable to tell whether he paid off the credit 
card. 
I am not considering the rationale behind Mr S taking of the loan  I am considering whether 
Mr S application was approached by Oplo correctly. Overall, I am satisfied that it was. And 
having reviewed it all, Mr S financial history, current situation, and outlook, then I do not 
think that Oplo had come across indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
And even if Oplo had reviewed Mr S bank account statements to double-check the position, 
I think that what it would have seen would not have given it any cause for concern such that 
it would have thought the loan ought not to be approved.
I am aware that Mr S paid for the loan satisfactorily until a time in July 2020 (almost three 
years after taking the loan) when his overtime payments reduced and so he found it difficult. 
Soon after that Mr S paid off the whole loan. 
Having considered it all carefully, I have decided that I do not uphold Mr S complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman